My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters. I refer to a Press release issued by the Minister, dated 17 February, in which she stated that the effect of the announced cut of $9m to the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission budget allocation would be a slowing down of already approved capital projects and the curtailing of new projects. I ask the Minister: Is it true that there are many outstanding applications from community groups for urgently needed child care facilities? Will the Minister advise the Senate of the number of such applications outstanding and the total of the grants requested in them? How much of the $6Sm allocated to the Children's Commission for 1 975-76 is to be spent on establishing full day care services this financial year? What guarantees can the Minister give that the new applications to be approved- which she stated would be in areas which demonstrate the highest priority of need- will be to assist in the establishment of full day care centres? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. When the Government abolishes the Social Welfare Commission, who will perform the functions it currently performs? What will happen to the staff presently employed by the Commission? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I understand that the 1976 census is to be carried out on schedule but that no detailed tables will be available for over 12 months. Given that the information collected is of vital importance to the work of many sections of the community, including Government departments and planning agencies, and given that such costs as wages and computer time are likely to increase in the next year, what justification can the Minister provide for this seemingly false economy? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Has the Minister refused to authorise a number of important consumer protection prosecutions prepared by the Trade Practices Commission, as reported in the  Australian Financial Review  of today, 25 February? If so, why? And, if so, is the Minister's refusal to prosecute consistent with his statement, also reported in the  Australian Financial Review,  that The Government's main concern was to ensure that consumers were protected from the harmful effects of anti-competitive conduct irrespective of the source of that conduct'? 

 - Mr President, firstly, I offer my congratulations to you on your election to the most honoured position in this Senate. I offer my congratulations also to the other new members of the Senate who have made their maiden speeches and my best wishes to those whose turn is yet to come. 
As we gather here in the First Session of the Thirtieth Australian Parliament, there are some matters of particular relevance to the people of the Australian Capital Territory. The most obvious is that the Australian Capital Territory, along with the Northern Territory, has Senate representation for the first time. I am very proud to be one of the first senators from the Australian Capital Territory. I am especially proud to be the first Labor senator from the Territory, particularly as Senate representation for the Australian Capital Territory was brought about solely by the efforts of the Labor Government, and in face of the best efforts of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition both in this chamber and in another place, and further in the High Court, to prevent it. 
As well as representation for the Territory, other measures were taken by the Labor Government to extend the political powers of residents of the Australian Capital Territory. As in the rest of Australia, people here between the ages of 18 years and 21 years were newly enfranchised. A Legislative Assembly for the Territory was elected as a first step towards giving the people both a voice in the administration of local affairs and a way to participate in the policies by which the affairs of the Territory are regulated. 
Other forms of community participation were facilitated by innovative Labor measures. For example, there were community committees for health centres, school boards with representation from parents, students and teachers and community representation on vital bodies such as the committee which allocates emergency housing to distressed families. But just as the benefits of Labor's social reform policies were quickly felt in the Territory- for example, in the reduction in the price of land, the establishment of an Australian Legal Aid Office, community health centres, women's refuges, cheaper loans for home buyers, child care services and land rights for Aboriginals at Wreck Bay, so also the detrimental effects of the present Government's ill conceived anti-Canberra policy are already causing distress and hardship to people living here in the seat of government. 
The price of land has increased. The availability of Commissioner for Housing loans has been drastically reduced. Health care programs have been frozen. The future of the Australian Legal Aid Office is uncertain, as is therefore the provision of free legal aid services to its thousands of potential clients. The cost of car licences and registrations has increased. The cloud of retrenchment hangs over the heads of hundreds and hundreds of public servants. The threat to living standards posed by the Government's turnabout submission on wage indexation has passed only temporarily, we fear. Perhaps most disastrous of all, the construction industry, starved of National Capital Development Commission contracts, is grinding to a halt. 
This last unhappy development demonstrates most clearly the shortsightedness of this Government's oft announced intention of simultaneously shrinking the public sector and expanding the private sector. In the Australian Capital Territory, the public sector and the private sector are interdependent. By cutting down the National Capital Development Commission building program, the Government has perforce cut off funds for the whole of the private sector concerned with construction, including investors, architects, builders, tradesmen and labourers. The actual unemployment and loss of profits in the private sector together with the fear of unemployment in the public sector creates a most unhealthy atmosphere for other parts of the private sector. I refer, for example, to retail business. Needless to say, small businesses are much more easily hurt by fluctuations in consumer demand than is big business. As the elected representative of this Territory, I must fight against the developments to which I have just referred. I hope that I may find some support in this fight from members of the Government who are most directly responsible to the people of the Australian Capital Territory. 
As a member of the National Parliament, my responsibilities extend beyond the special interests of the Territory. When I focus my attention on the national picture, I find no less cause for alarm. The future of many Labor programs is in jeopardy. Honourable senators on the other side of the chamber may be thinking: 'Well, of course, we have had a change of government. There must follow change of policy. It would be naive to expect anything else'. Well,  Mr President,  I am certainly a novice in this Chamber but, I hope, not entirely naive. 
I do accept that, by voting as it did in 1975, the electorate has expressed a desire for a different kind of government. Nevertheless, members of the Government will perhaps agree that the Liberal-National Country coalition campaigned largely on something that it called 'economic management'. It did not campaign on promises to dismantle Labor's most popular reformsMedibank, legal aid, equal opportunity in education, and the elimination of discrimination based on sex, country of origin or race. Indeed it gave vague and unspecific support for some of these. Thus, there is understandably widespread unease throughout the electorate as the Government announces, day by day, its intention to  review ' or to ' rationalise ' such programs. 
I wish to comment now in particular on the anxiety felt by many women in our society about possible reductions in Government support for programs and policies that have been of particular significance to women. I do this for a number of reasons. The first is that, as a woman member of Parliament, I am a member of a particularly small minority group. In this respect, our national Parliament is a microcosm of our society. Women are as badly under-represented here as they are anywhere else in our society where power resides or where decisions are made. And, as elsewhere in society, women are most heavily represented among the workers who keep this institution running. I refer to the army of cleaners, waitresses, typists, librarians and so on without whose support and skills parliamentarians would be unable to function. 
Although honourable senators will have heard many comments on the fact that there are now 6 women members of this chamber- and, indeed, some of those comments have been so phrased as to suggest that a membership of 6 women senators is almost an excess- I think that there will be agreement that neither the Government nor the Opposition has cause for complacency on this matter. But the sexist organisation of our society has many more important ramifications than the fact that there are not many women members in Parliament. Until very recently, women in our society, through a variety of formal barriers, traditional prejudice, and sheer neglect by policy makers, were denied equal access with men to education, health care, job training, employment, wage justice- in all, to the possibility of real independence. 
I presume that honourable senators will be aware of the following statistics, but I mention them to support my argument. In 1973, the Henderson Inquiry into Poverty estimated that there were approximately 132 000 fatherless families- that is, families supported by women- in Australia at that time. Further, 37.5 per cent of these families had a net income below Henderson's poverty line, and an additional 12.6 per cent had an income less than 20 per cent above the poverty line. Thus, half the families supported by women were poor or very poor. The same inquiry revealed that 20 per cent of all female full year full time workers earned below $2,500 per annum in 1973. By comparison, only 5 per cent of all male full time workers earned below $2,500 per annum in that year. Figures from the 1971 census showed that 80.7 per cent of women in the work force had no qualifications. But 1.9 per cent of women in the work force have trade qualifications as compared with 20.3 per cent of males. The child care survey in 1973 showed that a quarter of a million women with dependent children aged 12 or under were in the work force and about 125 000 women with dependent children under 6 years of age were in the work force. In 1971 only 27 per cent of students engaged in post school study of any kind, that is tertiary or technical, were female. 
These few statistics should remind honourable senators who need to be reminded that in education, training, employment and income, most women have been seriously disadvantaged. The Labor Government which was elected in 1972 recognised these facts. When setting about the immense task of creating a just society based on an equitable distribution of power and resources, the Labor Government did not overlook the inequities suffered by women. Honourable senators will be aware of the many initiatives taken by the Labor Government in this respect. I do not wish to weary my colleagues by a lengthy recital which, in total, these matters would make. 
However, as at least some of these reforms are presently under threat from the Government I shall comment on them. 
In 1973 the Labor Government introduced the supporting mothers benefit. For the first time all women who, for any reason, were the sole support of children were entitled to a modest level of government assistance. For the first time, Australians had a Government which did not merely utter hollow rhetoric about the importance of child rearing and about the mother-child relationship as conservative governments have done and still do. In 1973 Australians had a Government which acted to implement these values by giving concrete financial assistance to mothers in need. I find it ironical and very disappointing that this long overdue measure- the first step towards giving supporting mothers a modicum of independence and dignity- has been questioned by some adherents of the Liberal philosophy on the grounds that it may be creating an unhealthy dependency in these women. 
Again, acting on the socialist principle that the community through the auspices of government willingly assumes responsibility for its vulnerable members, the Labor Government set up the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission to develop integrated child care and development programs for pre-school age children. Through the Schools Commission a study group was set up to report on girls in the education system. Its report, titled  Girls, Schools and Society  was published in November 1975. It is the first national inquiry of this kind here or anywhere else. It documents beyond doubt the multiple and complex disadvantages suffered by girls in all kinds of schools in Australia. I am sorry that the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  is not here because I wanted to point out my surprise and disappointment that he has not yet seen fit to comment publicly on this report or to give any undertaking in respect of its recommendations. The Minister's decision to cut $1.6m from the Schools Commission's special projects allocation is a drastic reduction in what is virtually the only source of funds so far available for programs designed to eliminate sex based discrimination against girls in schools. 
Recognising that all people need marketable skills in order to achieve economic independence and that many people through lack of opportunity, retrenchment or technological change lack such skills, the Labor Government set up the National Employment and Training scheme. More than half the applicants under this program have been women thus demonstrating to honourable senators on the other side of the chamber who need to have this pointed out to them that women, when given the opportunity, are in fact anxious to acquire skills that lead to independence. Unfortunately, the NEAT scheme has already been undermined by the new Government. The application of the means test introduced by the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Tony  Street, and the reduction in training allowance represents a positive disincentive to retrain for women of low dual-income families. Such women are usually the first to be retrenched. They cannot afford to retrain on $23.40 a week so they either face unemployment with no unemployment benefit because they are married or of remaining in a low paid, unskilled job with little chance of advancing or even maintaining their job status. I hope that the Minister will give further thought to this anomaly and that he will re-establish positive incentives for training, particularly for women. 
One of the first acts of the newly elected Labor Government in December 1972 was to re-open the equal pay case. The Government's submission was successful and the principle of equal pay was established. In 1974 the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission extended the minimum wage to women. The injustice to women implicit in the concept of the male breadwinner, which was first applied by Justice Higgins in the Conciliation and Arbitration Court in 1907, has finally been removed. I point out that in speaking of working women I am not speaking of a small group or of a group of recent origin. I am speaking about workers who comprise a constant and vital part of our economy, even though they have not been recognised or rewarded as such. Viewed historically, the recent high rate of female participaation in the work force cannot be regarded as a temporary phenomenon. Working class women have always worked. High female work force rates have occurred frequently throughout Australia's history. For example, between 1904 and 1910 women constituted about one-third of the employees in factories and workshops in the Sydney metropolitan district. 
Under the Whitlam Government women were given access to wage justice. But a number of steps remain before wage justice becomes a reality for all working women. In August 1 975 the average female weekly earnings were only 74 per cent of the average male weekly earnings. There are a number of reasons for this. Not all State awards have been brought into line with the 1974 decision. Inadequacies in education, job training, and child care services remain. Prejudice by employers impedes opportunity and promotion for women. There is as yet no antidiscrimination legislation to bridle sexist prejudice. I hope that the present Government's overwhelming anxiety to reduce expenditure will not prevent it from turning its attention to relatively low cost reforms like anti-discrimination legislation. 
When the Whitlam Government's term of office was so dramatically interrupted in November 1975 many programs designed to eliminate disadvantages of all kinds in our society were also interrupted. I have mentioned those of relevance to women. But honourable senators may agree that improvements in education, training, legal aid services, welfare services and child-care, benefit the whole of society and not just women. We still await clarification from the Government of its intentions with regard to most of these policies. Such reforms are, of course, integral to the program of a Labor government pursuing an egalitarian socialist philosophy. Their place in a Liberal philosophy, concerned as it is with making a virtue out of an individual being triumphant over the system rather than with changing the system, is not so clear. 
I suggest to honourable senators opposite that the rights with which they are so concerned, such as the rights of individuals to pursue independence, to make their own choices and to notch up their own little measures of achievement, are rights which can be exercised only by people who have had the opportunity to acquire skills, knowledge and confidence. There are many people in our community who, through poverty, neglect, prejudice, exploitation, handicap, illhealth or merely old age, have not had such opportunities. Until society is reformed so as to give real opportunity to such people, any reference to the beneficiaries of reform programs as 'unwelcome dependants on the state' is callously insulting, and talk of 'individualism and initiative' remains the self-indulgence of the elite. I thank honourable senators. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs inform the Senate whether the Commonwealth Employment Service keeps any record of what proportion of the unemployed are migrants from non-English speaking countries and of how disadvantaged they are in seeking employment because of language difficulties? Is the counter staff at Commonwealth Employment Service offices advising migrants of the existence of free English classes which are available to them? 
I rise to pass a few remarks in relation to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill which relates to the appointment of a Director-General to ASIO. I think the former Labor Government is to be commended for setting up the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security to inquire into ASIO and for initiating this Bill which will lead to the appointment of  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Woodward, as Director-General of the security service. Undoubtedly, the credibility of intelligence organisations overseas has been brought into discredit. Their actions deserve their having been brought into discredit. I think the American Parliament has done a great service to the people of the world who believe in democracy by examining the actions of the Central Intelligence Agency and in revealing the kinds of activities in which that organisation has been involved in the last few years. 
In reading the  Hansard  report of the debate in another place on this matter I note that a member of the Government claimed that American parliamentarians had done the world a disservice by revealing what the CIA had been up to. My own view could not be more contradictory of that. There can be no acceptance of a security organisation, and it cannot perform its proper function, while it engages in activities such as those revealed in relation to the CIA in the last few years in other countries.  Senator Sim  has just said that my colleague  Senator Gietzelt  was predictable in attacking the CIA. I ask the honourable senators on the other side of the chamber to consider that I have not been in this place long enough to know what is predictable from an honourable senator but it seems to me that 1 will very quickly form views about what is predictable from certain honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber. It seems to me that is it perfectly proper for  Senator Gietzelt  to draw attention to the facts revealed about CIA activities in recent times because those facts bear on the credibility of any intelligence organisation in any country. 
Yes, of course it does. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Drake-Brockman)-  Order!  Senator Ryan,  if you would address the Chair you would be a lot better off. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  The purpose of the debate is not to say who is the worse- the CIA and the KGB. Undoubtedly the KGB indulges in activities which also bring the role of intelligence organisations into disrepute. Nobody would dispute that. I consider it to be a red herring to indulge in some sort of competition about who is the worse, the CIA or the KGB, when the purpose of the Bill before us is to appoint a Director-General to ASIO. The royal commission into ASIO was appointed for the purpose of restructuring our security service and giving it a Director-General to enable it to have credibility in the eyes of the Australian community and prevent it from indulging in the excesses of either the KGB or the CLA. We do not want either types of activities in this country. Surely the purpose of investigating ASIO is to set up a new structure and to appoint a new Director-General. 
I think the initiatives undertaken by the Labor Government in relation to ASIO were justified. Although ASIO may not have performed in a way comparable to the CIA or to the KGB, it has certainly indulged in activities which have brought it into disrepute. It has certainly indulged in activities which were unnecessary in order to protect the security of this country and which were an invasion of the privacy of the individual. I do not believe that I have to instance such occasions. I believe that everybody in this chamber is aware of the kinds of things to which I am referring. 
It is because ASIO indulged in activities which lowered the standing of the intelligence service in the eyes of the Australian people, particularly in the eyes of those Australians who care very much about democracy and the rights of the individual, that an investigation and reform of 
ASIO were justified. For this reason I consider the appointment of a judge of the status of  Mr Justice  Woodward to be an extremely important step towards establishing a security service which has the respect and support of the community. Because of the standing of  Mr Justice  Woodward and the position of judges in Australia it will be a step towards re-establishing credibility. If a security service does not have credibility it cannot perform its proper function. A security service's proper function is not to accumulate a lot of irrelevant and embarrassing material about individuals who are not harming the security of this country in any way. It is to identify and investigate continuing threats to Australia's security. Whilst it has a reputation for engaging in trivia and for engaging in politically biased activity it will not be able to perform its true function. However, I believe that the appointment of  Mr Justice  Woodward as the Director-General of ASIO will certainly improve the standing of the service in the community. 
I would also like to make the point that I accept the argument that ASIO is more appropriately put under the Attorney-General than under the Prime Minister. I think  Dr Klugman  has given adequate reasons in another place for that. It is important that ASIO be open to proper criticism in the Parliament. If it is under the Attorney-General it is then, of course, more open to such criticism. I think that a security service which is cut off from proper and genuine criticism is a security service which can very quickly become corrupt. So I am of the opinion that it is appropriately placed under the AttorneyGeneral. I hope that the Attorney-General will be aware in general terms of the activities of ASIO, I do not expect him to be aware of its detailed activities; I expect him to be aware in general terms of the nature of the activities and the objectives of the investigations carried out by ASIO and to be able to answer questions about those matters in the Parliament. 
I think that it is necessary to have a different kind of security service from that which we have had in the last few years. It is important to Australia's security that the security service we have is headed by a person who is outside the party political scene and who is a person of respect and high status in the community. I am hopeful that the results of the royal commission into ASIO will provide us with more clues as to how to establish a better security service in the interests of the Australian people. I conclude by saying that I support the Bill which we have before us in respect of the appointment of the Director-General of ASIO. 
I wish to address my question to the Minister for Education. The Minister has just informed the Senate that there will be no cuts in the education budget as allocated under the Labor Government. Can the Minister then either confirm or deny the truth of the statement recently made in his name, I believe, announcing a cut of $ 1.6m in the innovations project of the Schools Commission? Further, is the Minister aware of a report of the Schools Commission entitled  Girls-Schools and Society,  which documents the multiple and complex disadvantages suffered by girls in all school systems in Australia? Is the Minister aware that the innovations program which has apparently been cut is the only program under which funds are available for teachers and groups desiring to develop programs to counter sexism in schools? Is the Minister aware also that the innovations program of the Schools Commission was the only program which was truly decentralised in that it gave community groups and individual teachers access to funds to implement innovative programs? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister aware that nearly 30 000 workers in the private sector in the Australian Capital Territory, some currently threatened with retrenchment, have no long service leave provisions? When will the Minister find time to meet delegates from the Australian Capital Territory Trades and Labor Council to discuss the Government's intention in respect of a long service leave ordinance for the Australian Capital Territory? 

 - Mr President, I support the Bill. As my colleague  Senator Button  has pointed out, the Bill was first introduced by the Labor Government and its main purpose was to make appropriate long service leave provisions for special groups of teachers who had come into the Commonwealth Teaching Service. The amendments contained in the Bill before the Senate have been endorsed by the Commonwealth Teachers Federation, and I think that demonstrates the very good relationship that existed between the Labor Government and the Teachers Federation on the terms and conditions of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. Although the service in fact was established by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, in its first 3 years of operation it was administered by the Labor Government. During that time it flourished and proved to be in many ways an exemplary modern teaching service. Some of the features which were introduced under the administration of the Labor Government and which make it such an exemplary service include a high degree of teacher participation in decision making, first class terms and conditions of employment, and ample provision for in-service training, both to bring teachers who are below an established standard up to that standard and to increase the qualifications of teachers who wish to rise in the teaching service. Opportunities are provided for the training of specialist teachers, particularly in such areas as teaching English as a second language to migrant students and the teaching of all kinds of remedial courses in Australian Capital Territory schools. The Commonwealth Teaching Service also is marked by enlightened methods of teacher assessment. Those methods, endorsed by the Commonwealth Teachers Federation, led to a very happy and constructive relationship between the previous Government and the Commonwealth teachers themselves. 
The very fine opportunities presented in the past to teachers in the Commonwealth Teaching Service have meant that the service has been able to attract teachers of the highest calibre and that, in turn, the children in the territories have had the opportunity of receiving first class teaching. The Opposition hopes that this state of affairs will be maintained by the new Government. Views have been expressed in some places that standards of education in the Australian Capital Territory perhaps are too high when compared with teaching standards in other parts of Australia and that there is no need to persist with those high standards. As a senator representing the Australian Capital Territory, I should like to differ from that view. It is true that standards here are high, perhaps higher than in some other parts of Australia, but I think it is true also that as the schools in the 2 territories are the direct responsibility of the Federal Government, and of course they are the only schools in that position, it is appropriate that the highest standards should be pursued and maintained. During the December 1975 election campaign  Senator Guilfoyle,  the then shadow Minister for Education, expressed the view that there would be no undermining of educational standards in the Australian Capital Territory. I hope that the present Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  will endorse that view. However, there are signs at the moment that the standards are under threat, and I refer particularly to the reduction in teaching hours of English as a second language for the many migrant children in the schools in the territory, and to remedial teaching hours. Hours have been reduced in both those courses in several schools in the Australian Capital Territory to the point where in some schools those teachers have been put off. Teachers who are not trained in the specialist type of teaching are now doing this type of teaching. If this trend continues, I think it is fair to say that there will indeed be an undermining of educational standards in the Australian Capital Territory. This is acceptable neither to members of the Commonwealth Teaching Service nor to the parents of the children in the Australian Capital Territory. I hope that the trend will not continue. I hope that in the next Budget there will be a sufficient allocation of funds for education in the Territory to permit the previously high standards to be maintained. 
I should like to comment on the provision, in the Bill before us, for teachers of technical colleges in the A.C.T. I welcome their inclusion into the Commonwealth Teaching Service because it appears that in this way we will be able to continue to attract teachers of a very good standard to the technical section of education in the A.C.T. This is a rapidly expanding section. I think 60 new technical teachers were put on by the Canberra Technical College this year. There are plans for rapid development of technical education. It is not an extravagance. I think all honourable senators present will be aware of the past neglect of technical education in this Territory and in the rest of Australia and will be aware also of the need to rectify this neglect. In view of the current employment- or should I say unemployment- situation, we are seeing dearly the results of having too many unskilled people in the work force. It is the unskilled people who are the first to be retrenched. It is the unskilled people who remain longest unemployed and longest on unemployment benefits. Part of the answer to this problem is, of course, a Government sponsored scheme such as the National Employment and Training Scheme. To reach the problem perhaps at a preventative stage we should be looking to technical and further education and should offer an opportunity to our young people to gain useful technical skills when they leave school. 
Technical education should be a genuine alternative to academic education. It is an alternative which should be funded adequately and it should not be just a poor relation of academic higher education, as it has been in the past. Therefore, I am pleased to see that the Commonwealth Teaching Service will now include teachers of technical education in the Territories. I am sure that this will help to attract teachers of the standard that we would like. It will maintain proper conditions of service for those teachers. In the past, I think, sometimes the conditions of service were good and sometimes they were not. The inclusion of technical teachers in the Commonwealth Teaching Service should ensure a maintenance of terms and conditions of employment for technical teachers. This, in turn, should help us to establish here in the Territoryas well as in other areas within the responsibility of the Federal Government- a very sound and useful kind of technical education. 
In conclusion, I should like to say that I sincerely hope that the change of government will not mean an interference or an obstruction of the plans for technical and further education in this Territory. I hope also that it will not mean- there are some signs now that it might mean- a lowering of the previously high standard of education enjoyed by children in the schools in the Territories. 
In rising to speak on the 2 Loan Bills that are before the Senate tonight I am very conscious of the fact that I am a new senator. I was not present during the discussions on the 1975 Loan Bill that have been referred to many times this evening. However, I am not unaware of the rather dramatic differences between the treatment of what has been called a standard machinery bill by Opposition senators in 1975 and by Government senators in 1976. It appears from my reading of  Hansard  that the debate in the Senate on the 1975 Loan Bill was characterised by terms such as 'sinister' and 'reprehensible'.  Senator Carrick,  in one of the numerous second reading debates, said on 1 October 1975 that the Loan Bill- which was similar to the one we are discussing tonight- was a device, and a corrupt device. But now in 1976, when those same senators are in Government, they are prepared to ask for the speedy progress of a similar piece of legislation which they are now quite happy to characterise as a simple machinery measure. 
I should like to refer to some of the remarks made by  Senator Baume  in his speech earlier today. Unfortunately he is no longer present in the chamber.  Senator Baume  was highly critical of a number of things. He was critical of the variation of the amount of the deficit for which the 1975 Loan Bill was to be raised. However, as my colleague  Senator McAuliffe  has pointed out, the fact that we are now asked to pass the Loan Bill (No. 2) 1976 with no upper limit raises many serious questions which honourable senators opposite have made no attempt to answer, even though we have been informed of matters such as the prices of land and brandy in South Australia.  Senator Baume  also spoke in very strong terms of the legacy of inflation and unemployment left by the Whitlam Government. I think it is fairly factual to say that both of those legacies were inherited by the Labor Government from the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government. Indeed, both of those problems grew much worse in the 3-year period to which reference has been made, and there were a number of reasons for that which are not often brought up in this chamber, including the international economic situation. 
As  Senator Baume  chose to refer to legacies from the Whitlam Government, I should like to refer to some other legacies that he did not see fit to mention. I refer to the Schools Commission, the first decent national funding of education for children throughout Australia; the interim committee on child care of the Children's Commission, which was to establish for the first time high standard, properly funded government child care services. I refer also to the Australian Legal Aid Office, currently under threat, but a legacy from the Labor Government which was designed to make legal services available to all and not only to the rich. In relation to pensions, for the first time we have pensioners who are able to compete with the cost of living. Again, the improvement is under threat. Another legacy from the Whitlam Government is the accumulation of valuable data relating to social policy, and I refer here to reports of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, the Social Welfare Commission and various research projects funded under the Schools Commission. All of that data was neglected for many years but is absolutely essential if any government is to formulate proper and appropriate social policies for this country. Those are some of the legacies, apart from the ones referred to by  Senator Baume,  which have been left to us by the Whitlam Government, and I believe that they are legacies for which many people throughout Australia are grateful. 

 Senator Baume also asked why honourable senators on this side of the chamber are not prepared to perform their proper role of review. In turn I might ask  Senator Baume  why in October 1975 honourable senators on the Opposition side of the chamber were not prepared to perform that role of review. In August 1975 and subsequently Liberal-National Country Party senators in this chamber did not limit themselves to reviewing legislation. In fact, they so manipulated what they are now prepared to call a simple machinery Bill, so distorted the proper role of the Senate as a House of review, that by what I and many people believe to be improper methods they brought about the destruction of a properly elected government. They also brought into disrepute the credibility of this chamber. I believe that as a result of the treatment of the Loan Bill 1975 and as a result of subsequent events, the credibility of this chamber has suffered permanent damage. I think it was  Senator Messner  who earlier tonight accused honourable senators on this side of the chamber of not giving thought to the future but thinking only of the present. 
As a newcomer to this chamber, I have had the opportunity and the cause to give considerable thought to the future into which I am stepping and to the future of this chamber. It seems to me that the future of this chamber as a House of review or as any other useful constitutional measure is in serious doubt. The outcome of the forced election in December 1975 has not eliminated the damage that has been done to the credibility of this chamber. The fact that the majority of voters endorsed the amazing and unprecedented act of the Governor-General does not undo the damage that was done to our Constitution and to the conventions that have preserved democracy in Australia to date. The proper role of the Senate as a House of review was undermined in this chamber when the Loan Bill 1975 was considered. The traumatic problem that the Parliament and the electors faced then will be faced again next time one Party has a majority in the House of Representatives but a minority in the Senate. That is perfectly conceivable and something which is quite likely to happen within the next few years. Despite the totally disruptive and disorienting events of December 1975, we have made no progress towards solving this dangerous ambiguity in our Constitution. 
We on this side of the chamber do not oppose the 2 Loan Bills. We recognise that they are basic and essential pieces of machinery legislation. That is, we recognise them for what they are and we do not pretend to put up useless and obstructive arguments. I should like to say in conclusion that it would have been better for this chamber, it would have been better for this Parliament and it would have been better for this country if honourable senators sitting opposite tonight had treated with similar propriety the Loan Bill 1975. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (9.11)- I take this opportunity to apologise to you,  Mr Deputy President,  for any affront that you may have felt by the aside I made earlier. I know that the Standing Orders state that all interjections are disorderly, but I was not interjecting; I was merely making a sotto voce aside. I thought that perhaps you were a little trigger-happy in calling me to order. If you felt affronted,  Sir, I  take this opportunity to apologise to you. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  Thank you. 
If the Senate will allow me to indulge in a further reminiscence, I should like to say that the Treasury has not moved very far from the ancient Norman system which used tally sticks. They had bundles of tally sticks around the place and they put them in separate pockets or separate tables. When they needed to make a calculation they broke up their tally bundles one way or the other and reached a balance. This method defies the Parliament because we are not cognisant of it. I hope honourable senators will forgive me if I repeat observations I made when speaking to the Loan Bill 1975.  Senator Cavanagh  had made an aside- not an interjection- and in reply to him I said:   . . Senate will then have to take cognisance of the greatly extended use of a device by which governments are raising money to take care of shortfalls in the public purse. But when the device was first used, as I recollect in 1 953, 1 do not think any honourable senator then sitting in his place nor in the years that have passed since then, could ever have contemplated that the Senate would be presented with a situation of enormous deficits of the nature that this Government has produced through its own misgovernment. It is almost a maddened form of expenditure to ask that somewhere in the vicinity of $1,1 50m should be borrowed as a partial funding of the deficit. 
I do not wish to quote further. This device was first used, I think, in 1963 and not 1953, by  Mr McMahon  when he was Treasurer. It was used to raise a small sum of money to take care of a shortfall in the annual Budget deficit. I think it was about f 30m or $60m. The Parliament has overlooked this device and the Treasury has gradually increased its use of this device in order to manage its internal accounting system. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  made this observation: 
The Loan Bill 1976 is designed to permit this traditional procedure to be followed in the remaining months of this financial year. 
I ask honourable senators to take note of the word 'traditional'. This tradition has been carried out for only about 12 years. It is not a traditional method. It is a new device by which warrants can be exchanged inside and outside the Treasury. The Parliament, which in the final analysis is responsible for funding these loanswhether in the short term or the long term- is being invited to give the Treasury a mandate for this type of procedure. I revert to the observations that I made in October last year. A time will come when the Senate will have to take into consideration the method by which the Treasury is involving itself in disguising- in essence- the true budgetary situation. Maybe this method is within the law and within the ambit of the Audit Act. It is an administrative advice by which the Parliament is bedevilled or bemused by Treasury manipulation. 
I do not intend to abdicate from the attitude that I took in October last year in relation to this system of financing. The Commonwealth Government is raising money without any reference to the Loan Council by using the relevant section of the Constitution which enables raising loans to meet future obligations for the defence of Australia. It is transferring money from one side to another, doing such a shuffle as would, if we are able to put our fingers on the Bartons, land them behind bars now. It is a device which in the private sector and corporate structure area in Australia would bring certificates from any auditor who was asked to provide a report on or an endorsement of a balance sheet. It would attract the attention of the Corporate Affairs Commission of New South Wales. It would attract the attention, I am absolutely sure, of the Police Department in Victoria, which is responsible for looking at corporate affairs. Yet, the Senate is asked glibly by this Government, as it was by the previous government, to endorse a process by which the real factor involved in Treasury manipulation is disguised from the Parliament in a mass of verbiage. 
So, 1 find myself for the very first time in my parliamentary life- I have been in the Senate for some 18 years- forced into a situation where I shall not retract from the observations I made in October last year on the Loan (Defence) Bill. I will not retract from the situation in which I find myself, notwithstanding the glib and specious observations that this time it is a fair and honourable manipulation because it is not open ended and because it has a fixed determination placed on it; it has a finite sum of $700m placed on it. I consider that this method of financing deficits, either by the previous Government or by this Government, is something that Parliament cannot tolerate; and I am not prepared to tolerate it. 
Therefore,  Mr Deputy President,  let me repeat what I have said already on this matter. I took a strong view in October last year on this matter. The legislation did not come to a vote but I indicated in the strongest terms that I could muster at that time that I considered that this was a matter which the Senate itself would need to investigate. I repeat: This is a device which, when first used, as I recollect it, no honourable senator then sitting in his or her place or in the years that have passed since then could ever have contemplated would be presented to the Senate as a method of financing deficits in these terms. Therefore, I announce to honourable senators who sit in this place that, when this Bill goes to the vote, I shall not be present voting. With that, I conclude my remarks. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, refers to the recent GarlandBranson case. Was not Magistrate Kilduff bound by the Australian Capital Territory Court of Petty Sessions ordinance? Did not  Mr Kilduff  contravene sections 91 to 94 of that ordinance in finding a prima facie case against Garland and Branson and then discharging them? Was he not constrained by section 92 of the ordinance to charge the accused after he had found a prima facie case against them? Has the AttorneyGeneral received departmental advice that Magistrate Kilduff erred in the procedure which he adopted, as alleged in today's  Canberra Times?  Will the Attorney-General correct a miscarriage of justice, if it has occurred; and, if so, how? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to the review of the supporting mothers' benefit. Last January the Government announced that as a result of a Cabinet decision, a review of this benefit would be conducted as quickly as possible by the Department of Social Security. In view of the widespread concern in the community by beneficiaries of this benefit, can the Minister indicate to the Senate when the results of this review will be known? 
I rise to follow my colleague  Senator Knight  who commented on the decision to allocate $50m for educational buildings in the outer Belconnen area of the Australian Capital Territory. It is true that we have had a reprieve by the making available of $50m for these essential buildings. I will certainly not express anything other than satisfaction that this has come about. As  Senator Knight  has seen fit to draw the attention of the chamber to the problems surrounding education in the Territory, I think we should see this reprieve of $50m in its full context. After the change of Government we had a complete stoppage of all building programs, including those to do with education, in the Territory. This meant that hundreds and hundreds of children and young students in outer Belconnen who would have been ready the next year for schools ranging from pre-schools to technical schools would have had no accommodation. 
Although I express satisfaction that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  saw fit to visit this area and recommend this minimal funding, there was really no other decision he could have taken, I suggest, because otherwise children from pre-school age to technical school agc would have been sitting in the gutters or waiting at home because they had nowhere to go to school. I admit that this action is satisfactory but I think that this stop-go policy of the Government on this matter does not inspire confidence in those concerned with education in the Territorythe planners, the teachers, the students, the parents and the administrators. 
A number of other outstanding matters are of great moment to the community concerned with education in the Territory. I refer particularly to the ordinance which would give legal authority to the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority. Until now we have had only an Interim Authority. This has meant that administration of schools, provision of school supplies, maintenance of schools, extension of school facilities such as the sports facilities for Telopea Park High School referred to by  Senator Knight,  have been in a very ambiguous state. The needs have been very definitely established. The provision for the needs has not yet been forthcoming. I am happy to say that the Minister has found time to meet a deputation of parents who are concerned about the problems of maintenance. Some of the problems are quite severe and involve danger to small children. We were very happy that the Minister met us. Nevertheless the outstanding problems with the provision of school supplies, text books, libraries and so on will not be solved until the ordinance setting up the Schools Authority in the Territory is passed. I hope that the Minister by now has had time to examine this ordinance. It has been with us for a long time. It was debated at considerable length over some months in the Legislative Assembly and was passed with the support of all political Parties and the independents. Despite this, because of the problems last November with the change of government, there has been no progress. 
Some of the administrative procedures still rely on New South Wales procedures. Some are still controlled directly by the Department of Education. Having studied with some interest the federalist policies of the Government, it would seem to me that the Government would not be anxious to preserve an area in which there is centralist control of education. I hope that, in keeping with the Government's stated policy on federalism, the Territory might have something of the status of the States and have the formal powers to run its own schools. Until that happens we will have tremendous wastage of time, talent and resources. We will have school supplies not turning up for a term or two. We will have maintenance problems untreated for more than a year because nobody has authority to fix a broken window. We will have decisions on remedial teachers, and teachers of English as a second language, taken far too late and inefficiently because they cannot be taken at the school level or at the Authority level where the knowledge of the situation is. 
Although we welcome the Minister's decision to allocate $50m for essential expenditure, there are many other matters which require the Minister's urgent attention. I hope he will give us an assurance in the very near future that the ordinance setting up the Authority legally and giving it the quite modest delegated powers to set about the business of running the schools efficiently in the interests of the children will be passed as soon as possible. 
I present the following petition from 53 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
The need for the continuation and extension of projects undertaken by or proposed to the Children's Commission such as: 
Australian National University Child Care Centre, Parents-on-Campus Co-operative Creche, Research Students Association Family Day Care Scheme, Spence Children's Cottage, Bunbury Street Creche, Woden Family Day Care Scheme, Narrabundah Family Day Care Scheme at Marymead, Part-time co-ordinator of services for two Southside caravan parks, Neighbourhood Children's Centre. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should urge the Government to make finance available to support and maintain these projects. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 2 1 citizens of the Australian Capital Territory: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That the failure of the Government to honour its 1975 election promise that the existing Commissioner for Housing loans scheme would continue will cause widespread hardship among citizens of the Australian Capital Territory because: 
It will cause financial difficulties for those who, in good faith, and believing the Government would keep its promise, have entered into contractual arrangements; 
It will exacerbate the accommodation shortage in the Territory; and 
It will exacerbate unemployment in the building and dependent industries. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should therefore impress upon the Government the need for: 
Election promises to be adhered to, particularly where contractual arrangements and purchases have been made by private citizens as a result of such promises; and 
The need for the continuance of Commissioner for Housing loans on the same basis as before the December 1975 election. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. It relates to an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 1 8 March 1976. The article reports the decision taken by the Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  to take no further action in the Garland case. The article claims: 
Legal advisers- some of them in  Mr Ellicott  's Departmentfeel that  Mr KilduffS.M.  erred in discharging  Mr R.  V. Garland and  Mr George  Branson last week. 
Can the Minister inform the Senate whether this newspaper report is true or false? If it is true, why did the Attorney-General decide to take no further action? 
Before I take the opportunity presented to me in this debate to address the Senate on some problems in the Australian Capital Territory resulting from the present Government's policies and non-policies, I take the liberty to address myself to some of the remarks which have been made by  Senator Sheil.  I was very interested to hear  Senator Sheil's  amazingly esoteric view of the history of the last century. I do not intend to address myself to all the assertions he made. However, he devoted some time to talking about the United Nations conference on population control held in Romania in 1974. He seems to suggest, among other things, that population control in the Third World had failed because of the influence of Fabian socialism. Last year as a delegate to the United Nations conference for International Women's Year I was very privileged and interested to meet many of the women who had attended the population control conference in Romania as delegates for their countries in 1974. There was quite a deal of discussion, informally as well as formally, of the failure of population control in some Third World countries. 
I would like to add to the remarks of  Senator Sheil  some of the reasons given for the failure of these programs in Third World countries, reasons which really had nothing at all to do with the ubiquitous influence of Fabian socialism. The women of the Third World became very angry at the kinds of population control programs that were being inflicted on their sisters because those programs were based on Western values and Western technologies and completely ignored the spiritual and cultural values of the women who were supposed to fit into those programs. It was from many tragic experiences where women involuntarily were subjected by visiting specialists to forms of birth control that were totally alien to their values of family and child rearing and child bearing that opposition to Western-type population control grew to the extent that there was a massive political rejection of these programs at the Romanian conference. I think if  Senator Sheil  had considered what was said by women delegates at that conference he would be better informed as to why some of the population control programs in the Third World had failed. 
It was the view of those women, women who were intimately involved in what is happening to their sisters in the Third World countries, that if population control is to be successful, it must bc something that the women themselves want and understand and which does not destroy their whole fabric of family life. It never ceases to amaze me that people like  Senator Sheil  can expect other cultures to do what we think may be best for them because a particular idea may have proved successful for us, and at the same time perhaps resist any attempts within his own society to accept what other people might consider to be progress. We have seen in our own country a number of large lobbies organised to resist certain forms of control of fertility in this country. Those lobbies have a right to exist, to organise, to express themselves and to be effective if enough people support them. I would not deny that for a moment. But it strikes me as sadly ironical that we permit those kinds of lobbies to exist in our country- we permit people to express a range of views on subjects such as population control in our own country- and yet people like  Senator Sheil  look at the Third World countries and say, They have too many children. Why do they not accept compulsory sterilisation or the introduction of intra-uterine devices or some other western method of population control?' They might be acceptable to us in terms of our cultural values. Perhaps such methods are acceptable to some people in the community and not to others. But it is certainly totally unacceptable to say this to the women in villages in India or parts of Africa. I point this out because I think that it was rather incomplete for  Senator Sheil  to talk about the failure of population control programs in the Third World without talking about what seemed to me to be the most morally significant aspect of that failure, namely, that the women on whom these programs were inflicted were never consulted. 
I proceed now to the rest of my remarks. I would draw the attention of honourable senators back to some of the things that are happening in the Australian Capital Territory as a result of the change of government. I know that the view is widely held that the Australian Capital Territory is different and perhaps more privileged than other parts of Australia. But I think that in some ways the Australian Capital Territory, being the seat of government and the place where Government policies are most easily and directly implemented, provides a good litmus test for how a particular government is going. I am afraid that in the Australian Capital Territory we are seeing chaos in a number of policy areas which affect the everyday lives of ordinary people. I speak first about the confusion in the public transport system. Very recently, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  decided virtually to cut out bus services. Buses are the only form of public transport in the Territory. I say that in case honourable senators imagine that there are other forms of public transport. Bus services in the early mornings, in the late afternoons and on weekends were cut. Of course, this meant that the people who use bus services- children, housewives doing their shopping, elderly people, people who cannot afford cars, students and teenagers- had no way of getting from one place to another except if they could afford a taxi. Of course, most people in the categories I have mentioned cannot. 
No, taxis are not cheaper today. Although I think that perhaps buses are too expensive for a lot of people, they are still the cheapest form of transport. The removal of this form of transport at these crucial times has stopped people from getting to work and stopped elderly people from getting to senior citizen clubs or to hospitals to take advantage of the free medical system while it exists. It has prevented housewives from going to large supermarkets to do their shopping and forced them to use local, expensive small stores. Very seriously, it has prevented teenagers, of whom there are huge numbers in Canberra, from doing anything at all on weekends. As a result of a great deal of public outcry some of the services are being reinstated. But I suggest that a government which sees as an economy measure the taking away of a basie public service like the public transport system in a community where there are very many people dependent on it is a government which is on the wrong tack. 
Another matter of great concern to people in the community is that there appears to be some threat to the salaried specialist service at the Canberra Community Hospital. I do not think that this is just a local issue. I hope that honourable senators from other States will pay some attention to this. It was mainly in the Australian Capital Territory that the Government had an opportunity to establish real choice under the Medibank system for clients of medical services. What we had at Canberra Community Hospital was the option of a free salaried specialist service. People did not have to have it if they did not believe in free medical attention. If they wanted to have a private specialist attend them and claim their rebate they could do this. If they opted for the free service, the hospital had employed a certain number of specialists who were there to provide it. The Australian Medical Association opposed this development and, as a result of its opposition, the Government was rather tentative in setting up this service. It employed a few specialists- not a great many and not a specialist in every area- and the idea was to see how the service went. The service has proved extremely popular, and it is not surprising that it has. When people come to the Territory and do not know any specialists but need specialist attention, it is logical that they should take advantage of the free specialist service at the hospital. This is what many people have done, with the result that most of the salaried specialists who are at the hospital now are seriously overburdened. 
What does this mean? It means that if we want the system to be maintained more salaried specialists must be appointed very soon. If they are not appointed, the fact that the doctors are overburdened now and some patients have to wait for weeks to get to a doctor will mean the undermining of the service. People will say: 'The free service is no good because you have to wait for weeks'. This will enable the Government to phase the service out. The salaried specialists are extremely concerned about this. They also are concerned because they believe that the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  is discussing ways of providing more specialist services- not necessarily free services- at the hospital with the private specialists in the Territory and representatives of the AMA but not with the salaried specialists who are already working in the hospital. They have endeavoured to see the Minister for Health to discuss their concern with him; but, so far as I know, to date they have not been successful. 
A couple of weeks ago on their behalf I wrote to the Minister and asked whether he would speak to the salaried specialists about the future of this service in the Territory. I have had no reply. I do not want to be unduly pessimistic, but the lack of action by the Government, in either appointing more specialists or even discussing the matter with the salaried specialists who currently are overworked and concerned about their future, suggests that the Government intends to let this service run down- it is the only really successful example of free specialist medicine of which I am aware- so that it can say that it has been a failure and phase it out. The people of the Territory then would be deprived of the choice of a free service. I hope that the Minister for Health becomes aware of my remarks and addresses himself to this problem very quickly. 
Other matters that are concerning the people of the Territory are directly related to the present Government's policy on employment. The policy of no recruitment into the Public Service has left thousands of school leavers with no jobs. Canberra is still very much a Public Service town. That means that if the Public Service does not employ these people there are not many other employers who will. Not only has the Public Service stopped recruiting but it has cut down drastically on some of the training programs it has offered. For example, it used to offer an extensive program for girls wishing to become typists in the Public Service. Enrolments in this program have now been reduced to, I think, 30, which means that women are being deprived not only of employment but also of the opportunity to acquire the skills which could lead to employment in better times. 
Similarly, people hoping to be employed in the construction industry are in a very unhealthy situation. Despite the fact that there was an announcement yesterday that the Government had backed down on its hard line attitude on contracts let by the National Capital Development Commission to the tune of $50m for urgent school buildings, the cancellation of major NCDC projects led the Executive Director of the Master Builders Association to say, as reported in yesterday's  Canberra Times,  that there was nothing in the NCDC's announcement regarding the $50m that will be made available to make him revise the Association's previous estimate that 4000 to 5000 fewer people would be employed in the construction industry in Canberra by June this year than were employed in September last year. This is a serious situation and one that has been brought about directly by the Government's 'squeeze Canberra' policy. 
The housing situation has grown drastically worse in the last few months. There was an increase in the price of land- a decision which was taken unilaterally by the then Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Eric  Robinson, without consultation with the local Legislative Assembly. The Government conveyancing office was shut, which has meant that people buying houses with Commissioner for Housing loans now will have to pay up to 100 per cent more in conveyancing costs to private solicitors. There has been a drying-up of funds for Commissioner for Housing loans. As yet there has been no specific statement about what funds will be available and under what terms funds will be available to people in Canberra seeking Commissioner for Housing loans. 
Debate interrupted.  (General Business taking precedence of 
I will continue the remarks I was making last week. I was drawing the attention of the Senate to some of the confusion and distress being caused to the people of the Australian Capital Territory by changes of policy by the present Government. The areas in which this confusion exists include health services, transport, employment and housing. I now wish to draw the attention of the Senate to a matter which, whilst certainly of great concern to the people of the Territory, is of concern to people throughout Australia. I refer to the threat to the independence, standards and quality of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In particular, people throughout Australia have been alarmed by rumours of a proposed merger of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. I am sure all honourable senators will be aware of the storm of protests from Australians about this rumour. 
Before I attempt to deal with some of the arguments purporting to support such a merger or purporting to support other would-be reforms such as the introduction of commercial advertising into ABC programs, I ask honourable senators to consider what it is that the ABC does for the Australian people. It performs many more functions than commercial broadcasting could ever hope to achieve. Perhaps the most important function it performs is that it offers informed and objective reporting of political and other current events. I make this assertion despite the dishonourable and very unfair attack on employees of the ABC made by the Leader of the 
Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  in this place last week. The attack by  Senator Withers  has caused great distress to employees of the ABC and I for one have been approached by many of them and have been asked to redress the inaccurate and totally distorted views put forward by  Senator Withers  in the chamber last week. In support of my assertion that the ABC offers the possibility of objective and accurate reporting of current political events I quote from a Press release made by 10 eminent Australians on 22 March 1976 which claims: 
The ABC in our view has special significance in our society because that society is not strong in mass communication channels of an objective character, able to range a quizzical eye over Australia at large. 
The statement to which I refer contains more matter of relevance to proposals in respect of the ABC. I seek leave of the chamber to have the Press release incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ABC's offerings, apart from objective and accurate political reporting, include a number of things that are of great interest to many of our constituents. First of all there are the rural programs which are extremely important to people living in isolated areas, to farmers, to wives of farmers isolated on country properties and to children. There are the cultural programs. I do not need to point out that Australia has perhaps the second highest standard in the world in broadcasting of cultural programs through the auspices of the ABC. There is entertainment particularly that suited to sick and elderly persons with which we are all familiar no doubt. There is educational broadcasting which provides programs of information and interesting instruction to all ages from pre-school through to adult. The ABC has offered, through its overseas bureaus, specialised information about other societies. This, unfortunately, is one of the services that has been cut recently. The ABC runs 7 symphony orchestras, thus contributing significantly to the cultural life of this nation. It offers programs of interest to minority groups including the much discussed program  Late Line  which is on late at night and which has a range of topics of great interest to a small number of people who could not possibly be catered for in any other way. 
As a result of initiatives taken by the ABC during the Labor Government, the ABC has expanded its services to include community access programs and ethnic radio stations. With the remarkably successful innovation of 2JJ- a program tailored to the special needs of adolescents and young adults- the ABC has reached even wider audiences. I refer to these programs- my list is not exhaustive by any means- in order to establish that before there can be any meaningful discussion of efficiency in the ABC this impressive range of programs must be taken into account. Efficiency has been one of the words used by those suggesting that the ABC should be totally reorganised. 
I think there are probably many criteria of efficiency that should be taken into account if we are to consider this point of view seriously. Certainly one aspect of efficiency that should be taken into account, of which I have heard no mention by those accusing the ABC of inefficiency, is that from the consumers' point of view. I think it must be acknowledged that if we take the consumers' point of view into account there is a high degree of efficiency in that many listeners to ABC programs are satisfied that their particular interests are being catered for and are convinced that their interest would not be catered for in any other way. One beneficial effect of the current dicussions surrounding the ABC is that many members of the community have expressed publicly their support for the kinds of programs offered by the ABC and their satisfaction that their particular area of interest is being met through public broadcasting. 
To proceed with this question of efficiency, it is undoubtedly true in any bureaucracy that there is room for improvement in administration, allocation of staff to particular tasks and so on. I am quite sure that the ABC is no different from any other bureaucracy in this respect. I have noticed in the Press recently that some former employees of the ABC suggest that there could be a more efficient administration, but I do not think that these kinds of comments about these ongoing problems of bureaucracies establish a case for inefficiency so great that we should set about destroying the ABC as we know it. This, it seems to me, is what some of the proposals currently put up with regard to reform of the ABC would do. They would destroy the ABC as we know it. It surely is possible to look at any real inefficiencies in the administration of the ABC and to remove those without undermining or encroaching upon the kind of public service that the ABC has been giving and the kind of public service which I believe the ABC alone can give. 
Another matter that has been raised in a very imprecise and propagandist way is that of cost. The claim has been made by commercial interests and, I fear, by some members of the Government that the costs of running the Australian Broadcasting Commission are too high. No attempt has been made to state precisely in what way those are too high or that they are too high on the basis of some suitable cost comparison. Certainly the costs of running the Commission are high and they are met from the public purse. If the implied comparison is with commercial broadcasting, I would suggest that the ABC comes out very well indeed. The costs of running commercial broadcasting in this country, as in any other country, are very much higher than the costs of running the ABC. 
The only question that arises is: By whom are the costs borne? The costs of running the ABC are borne by the taxpayer from taxation paid for such purposes. However, the costs of running commercial broadcasting are also borne by members of the public, although not in such a direct way. The costs of commercial broadcasting are paid for by advertising. The cost of advertising is paid for by a charge on consumer goods in our society. As the main purpose of commercial broadcasting is to advertise consumer goods and to persuade listeners to buy such goods, I would argue- and I think that we should be able to find figures to support my assertion- that the costs of commercial broadcasting not only are a great deal higher to the consumer than the costs of the ABC but also are borne by the consumer every time he or she buys a product advertised on a commercial broadcasting station. This charge is imposed whether people listen to the ABC or to commercial broadcasting stations, watch television or have, as some members of this chamber claim they have, no contact with the media at all. All purchasers are still paying these increasing costs which in turn pay the cost of advertising in commercial broadcasting. Any argument relating to the cost of the services provided by the ABC can be justified and considered seriously only if it seeks properly to compare that cost with the cost of commercial broadcasting in this country. 
As the Australian Broadcasting Commission undertakes so many excellent activities through its programming and as it has received such a large number of expressions of support from the community in recent times we might ask ourselves: Why indeed are there currently such vicious attacks being made on the ABC? I would suggest that the ABC is being attacked as it is at the moment because the ABC is being successful and has increased its success over the last couple of years. As evidence to support that assertion, I quote from an article in the  Australian Financial Review of  23 March 1976 which said: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission has gained its highest ever share of the Sydney radio audience since McNair and Anderson surveys began, with combined ratings for its 3 stations of 1 8. 1 per cent. 
Results of the stations for the first survey of the year, covering January to March, were 2BL 6.8 per cent, 2FC 4.6 per cent and 2JJ 6.7 per cent. 
Traditionally, before the addition of 2JJ in January last year, the 2 ABC stations BL and FC offered little competition to their commercial rivals. 
With combined totals running around 12 per cent each quarterly survey, BL and FC were placed well behind even specialist audience stations 2KY and 2CH. 
Now, the ABC stations have overtaken all but 2SM, which reached 1 9.9 per cent in the most recent survey. 
I think that we can deduce from those figures relating to the improved ratings of the ABC the reason for the sudden burst of attacks on the 
Australian Broadcasting Commission. It now appears that the ABC m fact is succeeding in reaching a much wider audience and is therefore providing some kind of competition to the commercial broadcasting interests. The ABC is satisfying an ever increasing audience and it is providing a real freedom of choice to Australians. This is a freedom of choice enabling Australians to choose from a large number of high quality programs. The ABC is providing freedom of choice to listeners to hear broadcasts without being deluged by advertisements. 
That brings me to the question: Where are the attacks coming from? Of course, these attacks are coming from narrow commercial interests. For example, the Australian Association of National Advertisers is now suggesting that the Australian Broadcasting Commission must adopt commercial advertising as it is now reaching what was once considered to be the prerogative of the commercial stations- something approximating a mass audience. If the suggestions by the AANA that the ABC should: broadcast commercial advertising were adopted, this step would indeed open the door to.the introduction of one overall control body. That.b'ody would be the advertising interests, many, pf which are not Australian based. This would not happen directly, of course, but indirectly. The constraints of advertisers would come to determine the quality, content and range of programs on the ABC. Clearly the near monopoly over mass broadcasting enjoyed in the past by commercial interests has been threatened by the success of the ABC and, as is all too common in this country, the supporters of the free enterprise system- those who talk most vociferously about, competition and its virtuesstart to demand special protection from government as soon as any real competition appears. 
I point to this case of the ABC and the suggestion of the advertising interests that it adopts commercial advertising as a case history of this type of phenomenon. Here we had commercial broadcasting which, in fact, had a monopoly over the mass audience because the ABC did not run programs which appealed to a mass audience. Then the ABC provided real competition, for example, in the programming undertaken by 2JJ and on the FM fine radio stations. Immediately the advertising interests asked for protection. They asked that the monopoly in advertising in the field of broadcasting be maintained by insisting that the ABC too should have to fork out and pay advertisers by carrying advertisements. 
It would increase the amount of advertising because there are persons who listen to the ABC and to no other stations. The problem faced by the commercial interests is that they fear that the size of this section of the community will increase as the availability of the programs without advertising content increases too. So those interests are hopping in early and trying to ensure that that situation does not develop. In fact, they have asked that 2JJ be closed down because it is the particular station which has established a mass audience of people who are happily free of the obligation of listening to advertisements every 3 minutes. I suggest that those honourable senators opposite who so frequently like to talk about the freedom of choice, the importance of initiative in business, and so on, should welcome the initiative shown and the choice offered by the most recent successes of the ABC. I hope that I will be hearing in this chamber honourable senators from the other side echoing the sentiments that I am expressing today. 
Another threat to the independence of the ABC, however, is one perhaps much closer to home. That is the threat being offered by the present Government. I referred earlier to the attack made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  on the integrity of employees of the Commission when he accused some ABC employees of being Labor propagandists and nothing else. This kind of attack causes very justified fear and concern in the community that indeed the independence of the ABC is being threatened. 
A second matter which can be sheeted home to the Government in this respect is the failure to appoint a permanent  chairman  of the ABC to replace the former  chairman.  I would suggest that the independence of a statutory authority in our legal structure is bound up with the terms of appointment of a  chairman.  It is in the appointment of a  chairman-  a person of high status in the community, of appropriate qualifications and so on- for a set term of office that guarantees in the eyes of the community that the statutory authority concerned has independence, is able to act with integrity and is not able to be used as a political puppet. The ABC has been without a permanent  chairman  since November of last year. The failure to appoint a  chairman  puts the independence of the ABC in jeopardy. I hope that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will give a speedy answer to the question why no  chairman  has been appointed. The lack of an appointment of a  chairman  has caused widespread speculation that the Government does not intend to appoint a  chairman  but, in fact, to dismantle the Commission as we know it. If that is not the intention of the Government I suggest that it is the responsibility of the Government and of the Prime Minister to put an end to such speculation by appointing a  chairman. 
I return to the rumoured proposed merger of the ABC and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. I repeat my initial assertion that such a merger would destroy the ABC as we know it. My reasons for saying that are that the roles of the 2 bodies are entirely different. I will not go over the role of the ABC again because I have already discussed its role in public programming and bringing to country and isolated areas and to minority and other groups high quality programming. The role of the Broadcasting Control Board is to regulate and control commercial broadcasting in Australia. I appreciate that some technical matters which concern both the ABC and the Control Board are regulated by the Control Board. But these are minor technical administrative matters which do not impinge on the major functions of the ABC. 
The role of each of the 2 bodies is entirely different. It seems to me quite inevitable, if we try to put the 2 bodies together, that there will be competition between the 2 interests which would be represented on such a merged board. Of course, the strongest interest, which in this case would definitely be the commercial interest, would overcome the other interest. We would have a monolithic control of broadcasting throughout Australia, dominated by commercial interests. I suggest to all honourable senators present that this would be completely unacceptable to the community. I suggest that it would lead to the destruction of those standards of public broadcasting for which the ABC has been justly admired over the past 30 years. It would reduce the standard of broadcasting in Australia to the very low standard which we know to be common in places such as the United States of America where there is no Broadcasting Control Board. It would be a betrayal of faith to the electors for whom this idea is entirely new. 
There was no mention during the last election campaign that the Government intended to destroy the ABC. Opposition to such suggestions has cut across all party lines in the community. I think the Government would find as many opponents to this intention within its own ranks as it would find on this side of the chamber. I suggest that any review or investigation of efficiency, costing and so on in the ABC should be carried out not with a view to cutting out, cutting down and destroying programs which people need and enjoy and of creating more unemployment but with a view to expanding and extending the functions of the ABC in the way in which this was done successfully under the Whitlam Government. The net result of such an investigation should be recommendations for increased funding and resources for this important Australian institution. 
I ask for leave to table a letter addressed to me from a Miss Ballard about the lack of public transport services on weekends in the Belconnen area of the Australian Capital Territory. 
I present the following petition from 25 citizens of the Australian Capital Territory: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That the failure of the Government to honour its 1975 election promise that the 'existing Commissioner for Housing loans scheme would continue' will cause widespread hardship among citizens of the Australian Capital Territory because: 
1 ) It will cause financial difficulties for those who, in good faith, and believing the Government would keep its promise, have entered into contractual arrangements, 
It will exacerbate the accommodation shortage in the Territory; and 
It will exacerbate unemployment in the building and dependent industries. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should therefore impress upon the Government the need for: 
Election promises to be adhered to, particularly where contractual arrangements and purchases have been made by private citizens as a result of such promises; and 
The need for the continuance of Commissioner for Housing loans on the same basis as before the December 1975 election. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to a report in yesterday's  Canberra Times  that the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Staley,  told the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly that his Government will not be bound by advice given by the Legislative Assembly. In view of the fact that the Liberal Party candidates in the last election campaigned on a platform of selfgovernment for the Australian Capital Territory and that the Liberal spokesman on Australian Capital Territory matters at that time,  Mr Vic  Garland, endorsed the local Liberal platform of self-government, can  Mr Staley  's remarks of yesterday be interpreted as a complete aboutface by the Government on its much vaunted policy of self-government for the Australian Capital Territory? 
I rise to support the Bills. The Bills were, of course, legislation prepared by the Labor Government and mainly serve the purpose of implementing the Labor Government's decision to index the added expenditure for educational purposes brought about as a result of inflation. I think the fact that the Labor Government was prepared to index inflation, so as to enable the recipients of education grants to have value for money, was a demonstration of the good faith of the Labor Government in respect of the funding of educational institutions. I mention that point because there has been a great deal of criticism and innuendo in respect of the Labor Government's education program. It has been said that the Labor Government appeared to be pouring money into education but that in fact it was an accounting trick, and that because of inflation and so on the Labor Government really did not increase the funds available to education very much. I mention this rumour simply to knock it on the head. 
I think anybody who has been involved in the grass roots of education at any level, including the tertiary levels with which we are concerned in these Bills, will be aware that there was indeed a vast increase of real funds available for educational purposes during the period of the Labor Government. I am very pleased to see that the present Government has decided te continue the procedure laid down by the Labor Government of indexing the cost of inflation to educational grants. 
I noted in the second reading speech which was made when these Bills were introduced in the House of Representatives, however, that the Government expressed the intention to follow this procedure 'till the end of 1976'. I hope we are not meant to infer from the statement 'till the end of 1976' that the Government will not continue to index inflation in educational funds beyond 1976. The question of providing increased funds for education in tertiary institutions has been, as I have said, criticised in the community. I think we should look at what has been going on in our tertiary institutions before we decide whether such funds were justified or not. I think that colleges of advanced education have been a successful innovation in the Australian tertiary education scene. In saying that, I mean that they have provided an alternative type of tertiary education from the traditional education offered in universities before the introduction of colleges of advanced education. They have offered an alternative which has proved extremely popular with Australian students. 
We now have the situation in most colleges of advanced education where the demand for places is ever increasing, whereas we have the situation in some universities where the demand for places in some courses is decreasing. I do not want to imply any criticism of the traditional universities because of those figures, but I suggest that the great demand for places in colleges of advanced education, which are to a large extent vocationally orientated institutions, is significant. It signifies that students, mainly school leavers but also adult students returning to study, are anxious to obtain skills when the opportunity is presented to them. The question of how many skilled people a society needs has been raised in this debate. Some suggestions have been made, I think from the other side of the chamber, that we may be moving to a situation in which we are training more people than we can use in the economy. 
Perhaps they were. Thank you,  Senator Martin.  In either case I disagree with that suggestion. I think that it is not a question, for example, of having too many trained teachers in New South Wales. I hope that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  will agree with me when I say that it is a question of there being too many overcrowded classrooms in New South Wales. We have too many children in need of specialised attention who are not getting that attention. 
Yes, I am aware of that,  Senator Mulvihill  but, in the meantime, I would like  Senator Carrick  to take the point that I am making. We could use all of those trained teachers in New South Wales and more if we were prepared to reduce class sizes, to provide a lot of specialist attention for children who need it and to train some of those teachers to teach migrant children who need very specialised attention in their first year or 2 years in Australian society, if they are to get on an equal footing with their Australian born peers. 
Similarly, other professions were mentioned. I think an honourable senator mentioned the legal profession. I think that perhaps it also was mentioned on both sides of the chamber,  Senator Martin.  I do not think that we have too many trained legal people. We may have too many people trained in the law competing for plum jobs in private practice. However, if we were to extend and expand the Australian Legal Aid Office- the free legal aid service- by employing these trained people as salaried solicitors working for the community on a salary, which is a very economical way of employing them, then I think we would find that we did not have too many solicitors or barristers. A similar situation applies in the medical profession. We could use many more doctors in Australia. We could have many more health centres not only in places like Canberra- which I admit has actually less need for health centres than other places in which they do not exist- but also in inner city areas in our big cities and in rural areas. We could have specialised health centres in areas where there are specialised medical needs. We could employ a very large number of trained medical personnel in these places. 
However, because the medical profession is extremely protectionist and has imposed artifically restrictive quotas, through its influence in the medical faculties in universities, we do not have enough doctors in this country. It is an absurd situation when we have students with very high passes- passes which easily would have got them into medical faculties or any other faculties in Australian universities 10 years agobeing refused the opportunity to train as doctors in our Australian medical faculties because of the artificially small quotas that have been imposed by a protectionist profession. 
It is a closed shop, as  Senator Mulvihill  says. I am extremely critical of the medical profession for not looking at the needs of the Australian community for medically trained persons, and for not using its influence in the councils of the universities in Australia to expand the quotas. We have no medical faculty at the Australian National University in the Australian Capital Territory, although there has been a long history of discussion and negotiation about establishing such a faculty. It seems to me that the main reason a medical faculty has not been established here is that the doctors do not want too many other doctors coming into their profession to compete and perhaps reduce the fees that they can expect to charge and get away with charging. 
I should like to draw the attention of honourable senators to one factor which has emerged as a product of the social change which is taking place and which in fact might lead to the medical profession demanding larger quotas. That is the fact that this year at the University of Sydney, because of the artificially high academic standards required of entrants into the medical school, 50 per cent of those who so qualify with the required extremely high passes are girls. The increasing number of girls qualifying to enter the medical faculty at the University of Sydney has been a great source of distress to some of the more conservative elements in the profession who argue along the lines that it is a waste of time for the Government to invest money in training women as doctors because we all know what women do: They do not repay it the community - 
That is right. It is said that women go off and do unproductive things like having children. I feel that the conservative elements in the medical profession are caught now in their own trap. They impose these artificially high academic standards in order to maintain an elite in the profession, but they find now that, because girls are getting more opportunities in schools and are performing as well as boys, the profession is stuck with a group of people that it never intended to have included in the elite. Perhaps that situation will lead the profession to reassess whether it needs to keep quotas so artificially high, thus inducing a quite inflated sense of self-importance in doctors in our community, and whether it needs to deprive the Australian public of the trained medical practitioners that it certainly could use. 
Another area in which I think funding has never been adequate in the past and only looks like starting to be adequate now is the area of technical education. Similarly, I think it has been an elitist mentality in the administrators and policy makers in education in the past that has resulted in technical education being the poor relation. I have made some remarks about this earlier in this session of Parliament, but I again exhort the present Government to ignore completely the elitist situation of the past with regard to technical education and to invest as much money as possible in the area of technical education. In fact, I think that at this stage technical education should have the highest priority in education. I repeat my argument that the community needs skilled persons, and the kinds of skills that can be attained in good technical institutions are skills which are useful to the community and, of course, extremely useful to the person who possesses them. 
I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that in the past women have been extremely severely disadvantaged in obtaining access to technical education. This has not been the result only of negligent government policy; it has been the result also of prejudice on the part of employers and also, I admit, on the part of trade unions. However, the time has come in our society when women are called upon for a number of reasons to support themselves and, as that time has come, it is incumbent upon a responsible government to ensure that technical education is available equally to women as it is to men in our society. Certainly that is not the case now. The  TAFE in Australia  report of 1975 contains recommendations regarding this matter. I hope that the Minister will take steps to implement those recommendations. 
It has been mentioned in the debate today also that perhaps we would be in danger of pouring a lot of money into educational institutions that would no longer be required in the 1780s because demographic projections indicate that our population will not be increasing. 
I am sorry, yes, the 1980s. I was 200 years behind the times. I must have thought myself to be on the other side of the chamber for a moment. Excuse me. I argue very strongly that for the foreseeable future we shall have a need for educational institutions which offer training in useful skills. Even if educational institutions as they now exist can accommodate all the children coming from schools in the next 1 5 or 20 years there is still the very serious matter of those persons who at this time are adult and have virtually no education. 
I have mentioned in this chamber before that the latest census figures available showed that 80 per cent of women in the work force had no skills. I did not mention at that time that the parallel figure for men was something like 60 per cent. These are very high proportions of our work force to be without skills. People in that position generally are people who have not had equality of opportunity in their school years and who, for various reasons, have had no opportunity to attain skills and therefore go into the lowest level of the work force. They are the most vulnerable to retrenchment in times of economic hardship, such as the present time, and they have no opportunity, particularly with the current reduction in opportunities, to acquire skills through the National Employment and Training scheme. 
I hope that even if we could envisage the day when our present educational institutions would accommodate our school leavers, we could give thought to those people in our community- those adults, some of them maybe in their fifties but most of them are a little younger than that- who have no skills and who could benefit from an opportunity of recurrent education. These people could benefit from the opportunity to go back to school, to a technical institution, to a university or to a college of advanced education and obtain qualifications which would lead to their being at once more independent in their personal lives and more useful in the society. That certainly would be a way of giving those people some bolster against the effects of unemployment. 
A significant report on the subject of recurrent education, called  Learning To Be,  was put out by a United Nations agency in 1974. No doubt it came to the attention of this chamber at the time of its release. I think that ever since that significant report was published all responsible educational authorities throughout the world have been giving very serious thought to the need for recurrent education, that is, the need for educational training systems which are open to adults to re-enter, at whatever stage of their adult lives, to obtain either skills that they never had the opportunity to obtain in their youth or skills that they need when their current skills become obsolete through technological change. So I exhort the Government not to consider education as an area which is shrinking in its demand on the public purse but to consider it rather as an area of public expenditure which inevitably will increase and which will increase in the interests of the community. 
Talk of wastage, duplication and unnecessary expenditure only gets at the periphery of the maladministration of some areas of education in Australia. Of course we all admit that in some areas there has been inefficiency and duplication. But I do not think that those small areas of inefficiency and duplication should be seen as an excuse to reduce the level of funding of education which was established so creditably, I believe, under the Labor Government. In conclusion, I support the Bills. I hope that the allowance for indexation provided for in these Bills will not stop at the end of 1976 but will continue. I hope that the present Government will continue the high level of public expenditure on education that was established by the Whitlam Government. 
Sitting suspended from 5.50 to 8 p.m. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware that the failure of the present Government to continue with plans which were in train under the Labor Government to increase benefits under the Australian Government Employees' Compensation Scheme has caused undue financial hardship to many beneficiaries? Has the Government plans to increase benefits under the Australian Government Employees Compensation Scheme? If so, when will these plans be announced? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refers to a report in today's  Australian Financial Review  regarding a Cabinet submission made by  Mr Eric  Robinson seeking a wide ranging inquiry into the broadcasting and television industry. The report suggests that the Government intends to restructure the Australian Broadcasting Commission by giving representation to commercial broadcasting interests. Will the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government is in fact considering such a restructuring? If it is, will submissions from other groups such as Australian Broadcasting Commission employees, interested community groups and the general public be invited and considered? 
I present 2 petitions similar in wording from 8 and 16 citizens of the Australian Capital Territory respectively: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That the failure of the Government to honour its 1975 election promise that the 'existing Commissioner for Housing loans scheme would continue' will cause widespread hardship among citizens of the Australian Capital Territory because: 
1 ) It will cause financial difficulties for those who, in good faith, and believing the Government would keep its promise, have entered into contractual arrangements, 
2 ) It will exacerbate the accommodation shortage in the Territory; and 
It will exacerbate unemployment in the building and dependent industries. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should therefore impress upon the Government the need for: 
election promises to be adhered to, particularly where contractual arrangements and purchases have been made by private citizens as a result of such promises; and 
the need for the continuance of Commissioner for Housing loans on the same basis as before the December 1975 election. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to her undertaking that there would be no reduction by the Government in the services available to the handicapped. Is the Minister aware that there has been a serious reduction in the availability of speech therapists in the Australian Capital Territory? Is she aware specifically that hospitals, health centres, special schools for the deaf and other handicapped children and special classes for the deaf in regular schools are unable at this stage to offer an effective number of hours of speech therapy for those in need of it? Can the Minister explain why in November 1975 there were apparently 4 full-time establishment positions for speech therapists for the Australian Capital Territory, as well as several part-time positions, and in April 1976 there are only 2 fulltime therapists and one part-time therapist available? 
I present the following petition from 56 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that Lawley House residents are deeply concerned at recently introduced and newly proposed tariff increases as 
Many are unable to afford additional increases and many would be unable to secure suitable alternative accommodation; 
Financial statements made by Commonwealth Hostels Limited do not clearly indicate such increases to be justified: 
The Government, in pressing for such increases, does not appear to have given due consideration to the special needs of Commonwealth hostel residents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should press for a full disclosure of Commonwealth Hostels Limited finances and for the mitigation of the financial strain upon many Commonwealth hostel residents. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the Government's commitment to the abolition of inefficiency and waste in government administration, I ask the Minister: How many committees and inquiries has the Government so far set up? What is the estimated cost of these inquiries, including numbers of people involved, salaries, sitting fees, administration expenses, travel costs and allowances? Will the Minister indicate just how much the Government will be spending in these efforts to save the taxpayers' money? 
I wish to make a few remarks about a matter of great concern to the people in the Australian Capital Territory and of concern to all Australians who supported the Labor Government's program for the option of free medical services. In the Australian Capital Territory there are a number of salaried specialists at the Canberra Hospital who have been working for some time and with great success- success measured in medical terms and also success from the point of view of consumers of medical services in the Australian Capital Territory. This has been an extremely popular service and their work load has increased enormously. There is a need to extend these services if the whole program is not to be undermined. Most recently- this is the event which gives rise to my remarks tonight- one member of the salaried specialist service resigned and the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  was reported in the  Canberra Times of 21  April as having said that he would not replace that specialist until the Medibank Review Committee made its recommendations. 
This statement has been interpreted by many people in the Austraiian Capital Territory and by me as evidence that the Government is intent on allowing this scheme to run down to the point where it will be eliminated. This decision removes the choice of patients at Canberra Hospital to have the free health service. That was a choice provided by the Labor Government and we in the Territory had believed that it would be maintained by the present Government. 
Another point to be made is that the salaried specialists do provide in some cases specialist services not otherwise provided by any specialist in the A.C.T. Another alarming aspect of the Minister's decision is that to date the Minister still has not met members of the salaried specialist staff at the Canberra Hospital to discuss the future of the service. The Minister has met representatives of the Australian Medical Association, which is opposed to the service and which has recently passed resolutions designed to destroy the service. I refer to another article in the  Canberra Times  which states that the AMA passed and published 2 resolutions to the effect that after a certain date to be decided by it it would not refer patients to the salaried specialists nor would it accept patients referred from the salaried specialists. Also, the report stated, the AMA would establish a means test and decide which patients might under certain circumstances be referred. 
I believe this is an unwarranted intrusion of some pans of the profession into the business of government. It would seem to me to be the business of government to decide who should have access to services that are provided, and it should be the business of government to decide means tests if such tests are indeed to be established. I wrote to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  some weeks ago supporting the request by the salaried specialists to have an interview with him to discuss their future careers and also the future of the service they are providing. The Minister made an appointment which he subsequently broke. I think it is a cause for alarm that the AMA resolutions have been published but apparently the Minister has no objection to the AMA establishing this kind of monopoly over certain services to the detriment of the community. The Minister has still not met the salaried specialists. I raise this matter tonight in the hope that it may prompt the Minister to consult the salaried specialists and also the community which apparently is to be deprived of the choice of free service, and to be deprived in some cases of the only specialists in their medical field in the Territory. 
I  present the following petition from 3 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth that: 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Government's program of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
By way of introduction to my question, which is directed to  Senator Carrick,  the Minister for Education, I refer to the Minister's Press release of 4 February where he announced that the innovations program would be cut by $ 1 .6m but that the rest of the program would continue until the end of 1976. The innovations program was the only program of the Schools Commission that permitted a direct measure of local decision making in educationthat is, it permitted parents and teachers to initiate a local program and to have it, after favourable assessment by peers, directly funded by the Federal Government. In view of that fact, what assurance can the Minister give that the innovations program will continue after 1976 and that it will continue with its basic objective unchanged, that is, the objective of stimulating desirable educational change through direct funding of local programs in schools? 
I take the opportunity presented by the debate on the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill to draw attention of the Senate and the Parliament to the fact that today saw the opening of the Sixth Intermediate Conference of the Australian Pensioners Federation in Canberra. Given the present Government's attempts to diminish benefits available to pensioners, it is timely that pensioners, representing associations from just about all over Australia, have come to Canberra to put their case to the Government. Their main concern, of course, is to ensure that in the preparation of its next Budget the Government does not encroach any further on the standards attained by pensioners under the Whitlam Government. Whilst I, and perhaps most honourable senators, admire the energy and activism of the pensioners in organising their associations and coming to Canberra in this way, I believe that it should not be necessary for the senior citizens of Australia to have to come to Canberra and demand their rights. It seems to me as a member of a different and more fortunate generation that it is a tragic irony that it is still the pensioners who have to come, almost cap in hand, to the Government to ask for what should be in any civilised society a minimum economic security. 
Most of the people now associated with pensioner federations are people who did not benefit greatly from the economic prosperity that Australia experienced in the 1950s and 1960s. They suffered from the Depression, from the Second World War and in some cases from the First World War. The advances that were possible in Australia in areas such as education, health services and employment opportunities were not for their generation. They were for my generation. So it seems to me to be a tragic irony that now that the economic prosperity has stopped and we are facing economic difficulties, it is not the people of my generation who have perhaps the wherewithal to defend themselves in a time of economic hardship who will suffer, it is the people who missed out all along the line who now appear to be the most direct victims of this Government's attempts to manage the economy. 
Until 1972 the condition of Australian pensioners was a national scandal. I do not think any honourable senator would have the hide to disagree with that assertion today. The basic pension of $20 a week which was then the lot of the single pensioner bore no relation to any cost of living criteria that anyone could possibly imagine. However, under the Whitlam Government things improved and they improved very dramatically. During this time there was an 80 per cent increase in pensions. Of course, this occurred during a time of rapid inflation. Nonetheless, average male weekly earnings increased 56 per cent in that time and the consumer price index increased by 41 per cent. So certainly the condition of the pensioner improved relatively at a rapid rate under the Whitiam Government. However, what is the situation now? It appears that pensioners can look forward only to consumer price index adjustments of their pensions perhaps several months after the increase in prices actually occurs- several months after they start paying the higher costs. Certainly, if the Whitlam Government had persisted in making only the CPI increases to the pensioners, their benefits at the moment would be much lower than they are. 
Other benefits that pensioners achieved during the time of the Whitlam Government included the reduction of the means test. The means test for persons over 75 years was removed in October 1973. For those persons aged between 70 years and 74 years it was removed in May 1975. It was the intention of the Labor Government to proceed with the removal of the means test until all pensioners were able to receive their pension entitlements regardless of means. It was also the intention of the Labor Government to persist with pension increases until the value of the basic pension was 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The intentions of the present Government with respect to the future of present pension increases are unclear. Also during the time of the Whitlam Government, subsidies for voluntary organisations establishing homes for the aged increased considerably from $2 for every $1 raised to $4 from every $1 raised by the voluntary organisation. Certainly the introduction of Medibank maintained the level of health benefits available to pensioners and increased them in some cases. Similarly, nursing home benefits were increased during the period of the Whitlam Government. 
Why is it that pensioners must still organise and come to lobby in Canberra, to lobby only for their rights and not for anything special or outrageous? The main reason, of course, is that we have had a change of government. The change of government and the attitude exhibited by this Government towards pensioners has caused a great deal of concern and distress to those people who are beneficiaries of welfare programs. For example, it was to be the Government's intention, we understand, to introduce a $10 charge for hearing aids. As a result of public pressure, including pressure from the pensioner organisations and from the general community, the Government did not proceed with that intention. The Government went a lot further in its intention to take away the $40 funeral benefit currently still allowable, I am happy to say. It went so far as to draw up legislation which would deprive the pensioners of that funeral benefit. However, it seems clear now that the community at large will no longer tolerate this kind of injustice to pensioners. The outcry from all sections of the community about this piece of legislation was so great that some honourable senators opposite saw the justice of the pensioners' case, had the social conscience to act and voted against their Government's legislation. Whilst I feel that this action only continued to permit a very modest benefit to pensioners, it was an important victory for pensioners themselves. It reflected the fact that finally within the community there is an attitude that pensioners should not be the ones who have to accept the bad deal, that at least they should have their current benefits maintained and, I should hope, have them increased. 
Perhaps the only positive thing to emerge from the Government's disgraceful attempt to deprive the pensioners of their funeral benefit is that there is now much more awareness throughout the community of the funeral benefit, of what a small amount it is and of the difficulties faced by pensioners when a spouse dies and the remaining pensioner has to cope with the funeral expenses. I hope that, as a result of the public interest and the increased information now available to the public about the plight of pensioners with regard to funeral expenses, there will be a great deal of support for the pensioner association's own claim to have the funeral benefit increased to 60 per cent of the funeral cost. There is some prospect that this may happen as we have now discovered that there are indeed senators in this chamber who are prepared to put the needs of the pensioners before their own narrow party considerations. 
I am very optimistic. Although there are still some sections of the Government which are prepared to make pensioners pay the price of the Government's own clumsy attempts to manage the economy, no sections of the community are prepared to accept this. Perhaps we may see not only the maintenance of the benefit but also an increase of the funeral benefit for pensioners to 60 per cent of the actual funeral expenses. 
Other matters of concern to pensioners, however, have not been resolved so successfully. Firstly there was the matter of the delay of the increase due to pensioners which was experienced by the pensioners after the change of government. Although it has been reported that the Prime Minister said during the campaign that no delays would occur in passing on the consumer price index to the pensioners and that the indexation would be automatic and immediate, there has, in fact, been a delay. This has caused a great deal of concern, not to mention economic hardship, to the pensioners and it has caused them to doubt the good faith of this Government with respect to many other election promises that affect pensioners. 
An other matter of great concern was the Government's tampering with the pharmaceutical benefits list. It is true that aged pensioners do not have to pay for drugs which are on the pharmaceutical benefits list; those drugs are available to pensioners free. However, when a drug is taken off that list it is no longer available to the pensioners in any subsidised form at all. The pensioner has to pay the full cost. I have been informed by members of the Australian Pensioners Federation that as a result of this tampering with the pharmaceutical benefits list some pensioners are paying up to $9 a week every week for a drug for which they have some chronic need and which was previously on the pharmaceutical benefits list and therefore available free. It has now been removed from that list and is therefore available to the pensioner only at the full retail cost. I hope again that, with the sort of support in the community and even the support that there appears to be in this chamber for the needs of the pensioners, we may see a review of the Government's decision to take certain drugs off the pharmaceutical benefits list and make those drugs for which pensioners have need once again available to them as a pharmaceutical benefit. 
The other matter which I have mentioned previously is what is to be the future with regard to the passing on to pensioners of the CPI increase. Pensioners claim that as of today they are in fact 9.4 per cent behind in CPI increases. Is it to be the policy of this Government to continue to let the pensioners lag behind the CPI increases or will the Government accept the responsibility that it undertook when it asked pensioners to vote for it in the December campaign and fulfil its election promise of making these increases automatic and immediate? 
Finally, age pensioners, like all other beneficiaries of welfare programs in Australia, resent and are extremely distressed by the smear being cast on them by some sections of the Government. Aided and abetted by the Press we have seen a campaign in this country in the last few months aimed at humiliating and insulting people who are genuine beneficiaries of welfare programs. In particular we have seen the campaign waged against the genuinely unemployed. To the already dramatic problems of a person who is genuinely unemployed are now added the psychological and social problems of discrimination from neighbours, family and acquaintances, based on the dole-bludger campaign waged so successfully by some elements of the media in conjunction with some members of the present Government. The pensioners feel the humiliation of these sorts of smears and feel that the attacks made on beneficiaries of welfare programs extend in the minds of some people to pensioners. They are very distressed by allusions to things such as the soft society of which we have heard a little from some members of the Government recently. The genuine needs of pensioners, people who have lived and worked for this society all their lifetime, are not at the indulgence of the so-called soft society, and any attempt to suggest that they are is callous and insulting in the extreme. 
Pensioners after all have worked in many ways. They have reared families. They have contributed to this society economically. They have contributed their labour. Surely they are entitled at this stage of their lives to things that we all take for granted for ourselves, such as economic security, adequate health services and dignity. I hope that the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  and his Government will acknowledge the justice of the pensioners cause when the pensioners come to the Parliament tomorrow to present their case to him and to other members of the Government. I hope that members of the Government will be chastened by their experience over the funeral benefits, that they will seriously consider the justice of the pensioners claim and that they will drop any other plans they may have to make reductions in the deficit by depriving the pensioners of basic benefits. 
I rise to support the Superannuation Bill 1976 and to support the amendment to that Bill moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt.  As  Senator Wriedt  said in his introductory remarks, the issues involved in the Superannuation Bill have been well canvassed in both Houses of the Parliament, both earlier and during this recent session. I therefore do not propose to speak at length. I remind the Senate that the legislation prepared by the previous Labor Government was more beneficial to most public servants than is this Government's legislation. Of course, the Labor Government acted in a very responsible way in the drafting and the introduction of its superannuation legislation. The Labor Government sought independent actuarial advice before introducing its 1975 Bill and I think it is unfortunate that it is not that Bill that we are to pass tonight but that it is the Government's Bill which, although preserving some of the reforms introduced in the Labor legislation, does leave some groups of public servants at a disadvantage. 
The first group that I mention is the group of contributors who, under the old superannuation scheme, contributed at a higher rate in order to retire at 60 years of age with full benefits. Under the new legislation they will be deprived of the opportunity to retire at 60 years of age with full benefit. I think that this is a most unfair situation with regard to those contributors. It is unfair in that many of them considered that in paying those higher contributions they were in fact entering into a contract with their employer, the Government- not any particular Government but with the Government that employed themand that that contract would have been honoured by whichever Government was in power at the time when they were due for retirement. That is not to be the case under this legislation. Those contracts which were entered into by the contributors at the age 60 retirement level of contribution will be broken and those contributors will be unable to retire at 60 years of age with their full benefits intact. 
I should like to add that I think that this is an unfortunate omission in the Government's legislation in that it is this Government's announced and even, as we saw lately, successful intention to reduce the number of people in the employment of the Australian Public Service. Surely one fairly painless and logical way to have reduced the number of public servants would have been to permit those people to retire who felt at the age of 60 that they had given all that they had to give- who felt that they had come to the end of that aspect of their working life and that they would like to retire. Of course those people will still be able to retire but they will retire at some considerable financial disadvantage. I think that, particularly in the light of the Government's announced policy to reduce the number of public servants, the decision not to provide for age 60 retirement on full benefit is very much to be regretted. 
The second group of people who are not well provided for in this Bill are orphaned children, particularly of single parents who were contributors. In that respect, the Government's legislation is no different from the old legislation. In both cases the orphans benefit cuts out on children reaching the age of 16 years, unless those children are full-time students. The Opposition had hoped that, in drawing up new legislation, the Government would have taken account of the anomaly, which seems to be almost discrimination based on class, whereby orphaned children of 16 years who are fulltime students may continue to draw a pension from their deceased parents' superannuation but orphaned children of 16 years who go into the work force or, more significantly, wish to take an apprenticeship do not continue to have an entitlement. I cannot see any reason why a child who is continuing in fulltime education should have more rights than a young person who decides to take an apprenticeship. I draw the Government's attention to that anomaly in the hope that, when formulating regulations, the Government will do something about eliminating it. 
In relation to the 16-year old orphaned child of a single parent, there is the possibility of the child being without any support at all unless better provision is made for him. I hope that members of the Government are aware that many single parents, particularly single mothers, are pursuing a Public Service career particularly because it offers job security and therefore security for their children. I have been contacted by single mothers who are concerned that the failure of the legislation to provide benefits for children over 16 years might mean that their own children, if orphaned, would be in a very invidious position, and I hope that the Government will set about rectifying that anomaly. 
The third case of persons who may be disadvantaged by the new legislation relates to divorded wives.  Senator Walters  has canvassed the issue at length, so I will deal with it briefly. I agree with the honourable senator that in some circumstances a divorced wife- that is, a wife of many years standing who is divorced when moving towards old age- could be disadvantaged by having no claim at all on the superannuation benefit to which she undoubtedly contributed in her years of child rearing and housekeeping. I do not think there is a simple solution to that anomaly. On this aspect of the Bill, I should say that the provision for de facto wives is a forward step. We should not be entering into a moralistic debate as to whether a former de jure or de facto wife has more right to a particular benefit. What should be taken into account is the position of the individual woman, the number of dependents she has and her ability to support herself. If she has no such ability and if she has dependent children, I would agree with  Senator Walters  that she should not be excluded from having some claim on the pension of her former spouse, a pension to which undoubtedly she has contributed. Again I would suggest that the Government take note of the possible disadvantage which may be suffered by a divorced spouse and, in drawing up regulations to this Bill, find some equitable way of determining the rights of a former wife. 
I should like to add that divorced wives are only one group in a category of people who may have been wholly dependent on the contributor but who do not qualify for benefits. Another person in that category is the sister-housekeeper of a contributor, who may be just as dependent as a wife but who has no rights at all to a pension once her brother is deceased. Again, I think that this is a complex matter. The benefits have been drawn up to provide a pension for a spouse rather than for any other party, and perhaps that concept could be broadened to enable the contributor to nominate in his or her will a person who would be eligible to take the pension. I make this suggestion because I am aware of certain categories of contributors' dependants for whom there is no provision in the Bill, and I hope that the Government will give further thought to those people. 
On the other hand, in speaking in support of the Bill and of the amendment, I must say that the proposed scheme has some positive features. Firstly, I instance the provision which permits Provident Fund contributors to transfer to the superannuation scheme after 20 years as contributors. That is certainly an improvement on the Government's original intention to require Provident Fund contributors to wait for 30 years. It will certainly be of benefit to those Provident Fund contributors who have been contributing for 20 years and who can now go into the full superannuation scheme. I commend that aspect of the legislation. There is another aspect of the legislation I would commend, and that is that it equalises the position of male and female contributors to the scheme. In that respect it is a progressive reform of the old legislation. It recognises that the female public servant should have superannuation benefits in exactly the same way as a male public servant has. The Bill also provides for a break in service for the female public servant if she wishes to withdraw from the work force for a number of years to have children. Again, I find that a most progressive step and I am heartened to find it included in the present legislation. 
It is unfortunate that the Government has not seen fit to permit retirement on full pension at 60 years of age. It is also unfortunate that the 
Government has not paid sufficient attention to particular categories of dependent personsorphans, former spouses, sister-housekeepers and so on- whose position is still not secure. But the Bill does include some of the original features of the Labor Party's legislation, and for its provision for Provident Fund contributors and for women employees of the Public Service it is to be commended. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of a recent program broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission regarding a  Dr Feingold  and the diet treatment that he has formulated for hyperactive children? Is the Minister aware that the ABC was deluged with requests from the public, mostly from parents of hyperactive children, for copies of this diet? Would the Minister agree that this response indicates that there is an urgent need for medical research into the problem of hyperactive children? Can the Minister inform the chamber whether the Government, through its funding of appropriate research bodies, will facilitate research into the diagnosis and treatment of hyperactive children? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I rise to speak in support of the Bill because it gives effect to many of the recommendations made in the Schools Commission triennial report for 1976-1978 and also in the special annual report drawn up by the Schools Commission in 1976. In my introductory remarks I would like to address some attention to the sentiment quite often expressed of late by some government supporters, that money does not buy a good education, that a lot of the money allocated through the Schools Commission programs has been wasted and that we must look to other means to improve the educational standards of our children. I say in rebuttal to this that money can improve the educational opportunities of children. In fact, money provided by way of Schools Commission grants has improved the educational opportunities of many children throughout Australia. 
The success of many of the Schools Commission programs, in particular the disadvantaged schools program, has been documented. Of course, the programs are in their infancy, but nonetheless there is evidence to show that these specific programs which have been formulated by experts consulting with all interested parties have led to the development of better educational opportunities for children and have demonstrated that where more money, particularly more federal money, is available benefits can be achieved. I direct the Senate's attention for a moment to the sorts of things that go on in schools and to the sorts of things that schools need so that perhaps there will be no repetition of the rather slick remark that money does not buy education. Money certainly buys school buildings, and those have been desperately needed in many parts of Australia. Money is required to buy school materials, textbooks, equipment and things of that nature. Perhaps most importantly, money can lead to smaller class sizes; that is, money can buy more teachers and better trained teachers. Money can be used to provide for in-service training of teachers so that they are constantly improving their skills and thus constantly improving the quality of the education that they are imparting to the students in their care. 
Money also can buy things like ancillary staff, a long neglected need of most Australian schools. In the past, before the implementation of the Schools Commission programs, school teachers were constantly distracted from their professional duties, from the job that they had been trained at great public expense to do, by the necessity to perform secretarial skills which they had not been trained to do. Any of us who have taught in schools or have spent time in schools are familiar with the sight of harassed teachers, rushing to get to a large class, standing in a long queue waiting to get at the photo-copying machine to run off essential school materials. 
Roneoing material for classes on a photocopying machine is the sort of task that an ancillary staff person can very adequately and very economically perform. By the employment of ancillary staff for such purposes teachers are relieved of such duties and are able to spend their time doing the job which they have been trained to do and indeed which they wish to do. But of course, the provision of ancillary staff requires money, and again we are back to my first contention, that if we are to improve the standard of education available to Australian children we must be prepared to spend money on it. 
Some things have been said in this debate which have led me to believe that some government senators are under a misapprehension as to the relationship of the Schools Commission to State education departments and to the actual functions of the Schools Commission. I think that my colleague  Senator Button  has clarified the situation, but I would like to add a few comments. The Schools Commission is not an education department. It was never meant to be, and it does not perform the functions of an education department. It does not interfere with the functions of education departments or attempt to take them over. 
What the Schools Commission was set up to do and what it has done admirably to date can be divided into 2 main areas. First of all, it consults with all interested parties in the education process in all States and Territories in Australia. Secondly, it draws up, for the benefit of the Australian Government, recommendations as to what funds should be made available to schools and school systems throughout the country in order to ensure the development of acceptable standards for Australian education. This is not a function which State education departments are geared to do. Clearly, State education departments are fully occupied in administering education resources in their own States. No one State education department or territorial authority is in a position to make this national survey of needs or to provide this comprehensive advice to an Australian government. So, clearly in the first important function of the Schools Commissionthe provision of advice regarding educational standards and needs to Australian governmentsthere is a specific role for the Schools Commission and it is a role which cannot be performed by departments of education. 
The second important function of the Schools Commission is to inquire into and report on any aspect of primary and secondary schooling. Again this is a function that is peculiarly suitable to a national expert body with no political ties, a body of people appointed for their expertise in educational matters and not because of their relationship to the government of the day. There was in 1972 and, of course, there still is, to a lesser degree, a great need for such inquiries into various aspects. I am aware that the Senate has a committee which has conducted such national inquiries and is continuing to conduct one into the provision of educational services for isolated children. Nevertheless, this function of the Schools Commission is one which is most necessary in a country with the geographical peculiarities which Australia possesses. We have States that are very unevenly populated, with major centres separated by vast distances, thus prohibiting easy liaison and exchange of personnel, ideas and resources. Consequently, certain national needs that emerge would not be perceived by any one State and Australian governments, until the Labor Government set up the Schools Commission, really had no access to information on a national basis. 
In passing I would like to mention the kinds of national inquiries that the Schools Commission has undertaken to date. One in which I had a particular interest was its inquiry into the educational situation of girls in Australian school systems. The result of this inquiry- a report called  Girls, Schools and Society- was  completed last November and is available. This was the first national inquiry of its kind. It worked from a national perspective. It collected data from all States and from all school systems. It looked at related areas such as vocational guidance, training schemes and tertiary education. It looked at the particular needs of girls in rural areas with limited job opportunities, who therefore require particular assistance in their school days. It looked at the particular difficulties of girls in city schools facing the pressures of city life. It took into account other environmental and social aspects such as the influence of commercial advertising on the preoccupations of school girls. This is the kind of inquiry which is done most properly and effectively only by a national body such as the Schools Commission. 
A similar study group has been set up by the Commission to look at the community and its schools. This study group has examined ways of making the very expensive educational facilities provided by Federal and State governments more accessible to the community. It has come up with a number of innovative and practical suggestions on how school facilities can be community facilities and how community resources can become school resources. This is a national issue and has national application. It is done most appropriately by a national body. Perhaps the most important and most innovative study group set up by the Schools Commission is one concerned with Aboriginal education. It is still investigating the needs of the Aboriginal people. It is comprised solely of Aboriginal people who have had experience in this field and who will contribute a great deal to the Australian Government's knowledge of the needs of Aboriginal people in education. This again is an inquiry most appropriately done by a national body. 
I pass now to the basic concept that ran through the original Karmel Report published in 1973, a concept which was extended and reinforced in the triennial report for 1976-78. This was the responsibility of the Australian Government to fund education according to needs. We have heard a lot about this, so much so that the word 'needs' has become something of a cliche. Nonetheless, it is still a very important and desirable objective in any funding program for education. The concept of funding according to needs requires a specific strategy. If we are to put the most money where there is the most disadvantage in order to decrease the disadvantage, then we need to have a strategy. The strategy formulated by the Schools Commission was that of having resource targets. With expert and professional advice and the vast range of information available to them, the original Karmel Committee and later the Schools Commission formulated resource targets- that is, desirable levels for things such as teachers, facilities such as libraries, sporting equipment, other equipment, and standards of buildings towards which the school system should be working- so that at a certain date in the future schools would have increased their resources in a way that was measurable and clearly able to be evaluated. 
This movement towards resource targets has been successful. In the most recent Schools Commission report the Commission reported that all States had achieved an improvement in relation to their resource targets of one-third; that is, they were one-third of the way towards having all their schools at the desirable standard. Again I suggest that this investigation of needs and setting of resource targets so that all schools move towards desirable standards is a function that can be performed only by a national body, a body of experts and a body removed from the party political process. I find it very difficult to see, therefore, how the Government's new federalism policy takes account of this strategy of needs-based funding in working towards resource targets. If the federalism policy is to be interpreted to mean that we are back to a situation where each State sets its own targets, then we will continue to have the inequalities between States and Territories which we had- they have been thoroughly documented- prior to 1973 and prior to the establishment of the Schools Commission. 
This setting of national targets is a function which individual States obviously are not in a position to perform. It does not involve in any way the Schools Commission encroaching on the traditional role of the State departments of education. The Schools Commission is not a department of education. The State departments continue to administer their schools and to make decisions about the very large recurrent and capital grants they receive; but it is the Schools Commission which takes an overall look and says 'These schools need more buildings; these  schools  need more teachers; these schools need specially trained migrant teachers' and so on. If we accept what has been stated in the Schools Commission report as desirable, we must accept that we need a national body to develop and carry out the strategies. 
Another important, in fact, key concept in the Schools Commission philosophy has been the pursuit of equality of opportunity in education. Again it sounds almost like a cliche, but is something which is still far off for most Australian children. The pursuit of the objective of equality of opportunity in education does necessitate a needs-based approach. I was somewhat confused to hear the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  say in the Senate last Thursday that his Government has the objective of continuing to improve all standards of education and of continuing to provide improved educational resources overall. Perhaps I misinterpreted the Minister, but that was the interpretation which I put upon his words. It seems to me that if one has the objective of improving resources in all schools, then all one will do is to continue a system whereby there are huge gaps between the systems and between schools. If one has the objective of equality of opportunity- that is of closing the gap- between the disadvantaged schools and the well equipped schools, then one does not have the strategy of giving equal amounts of money or similar kinds of increases to all school systems and to all schools. In fact, one gives more money where the need is greatest and cuts down on government resources where needs are not very great or where all needs appear to be met by the current level of resources in that school. 
I am concerned about the pursuit of this objective of equality of opportunity in education. I think that in this concern is reflected the concern of many parents and teachers throughout Australia. I hope that the Minister for Education in speaking to this Bill will clarify the position of his Government with regard to the pursuit of the objective of equality of opportunity in education and, specifically, that he will clarify whether his Government intends to pursue a funding strategy of closing gaps between the poor schools and the well provided for schools. I will not say rich schools because I think that introduces a red herring. I do not think there are such things as rich schools. However, there are schools which are very well equipped with teachers, facilities, parental support, level of trainee teachers and so on. I would like to hear from the Minister some commitment to the idea of bringing the poor schools in Australia up to the level of those wellequipped schools. I would also like to hear from the Minister a commitment on behalf of his Government to maintain the basic thrust of the Karmel report and of the Schools Commission report with respect to needs based funding. 
Although many questions have been directed to the Minister in this chamber and, I believe, by delegations of parents and teachers, about the Government's intentions in regard to the Schools Commission, there is still some uncertainty in the minds of those concerned with education as to the kinds of modifications the Government intends to make to the functions and composition of the Schools Commission. I hope the Government does not intend to carry out an earlier suggestion and reconstitute the Schools Commission in such a way to include all State ministers for education. I say this with no intention to detract from the excellent work done by State ministers for education. I think that if we are to pursue this idea of a national strategy for education with recommendations to a national government based on investigation into national needs, we need a body which does not involve itself in the problems of States competing for resources and things of that kind. If we had a Schools Commission composed of State ministers for education, inevitably this kind of competitiveness betweeen the States- perhaps it is a competitiveness which they must have in order to perform their duties to their State constituentswould militate against the idea of an objective and professional assessment of needs. I would be grateful if the Minister at his earliest convenience would clarify the intentions of his Government with regard to the function and composition of the Schools Commission. 

 Mr Viner, in the other chamber, spoke of the intention of his Government to depart from the recent trend towards centralism in the administration of funding of education. I have considered this statement for some time and I still do not know what the Minister means by the 'trend towards centralism'. I have been a close observer of and, to some extent, a participant in the work of the Schools Commission. What I have observed is quite the contrary to a trend towards centralism. I have observed a marked and deliberate trend towards community involvement- that is towards decentralisation of decision making in education. I cite, for example, the Schools Commission innovations program. 
This program permits and encourages groups of teachers or parents to formulate education projects which they would like to see in their local schools. They make an application to the innovations program for funds. If their project is approved they receive those funds directly and for the first time they have the ability to actually fund and carry out local school programs. I think this was a most characteristic aspect of the innovations program. Perhaps more characteristic than was anticipated was the development of entirely new and innovatory techniques in education. I do not think many entirely new and innovatory techniques in education emerged through the innovations program. What emerged was the other kind of innovation- an important innovation- which was the desire and ability of parents and teachers at local school level to develop a program and to get funds to put that program into practice. There is no tendency to centralism in that. 
Similarly, the disadvantaged program achieved a very high degree of local decision making. Again, I think this was an exercise in decentralisation. I shall speak a little more about that later. At this stage I speak about amendments which the Opposition will move to the Bill. As I said when I began to speak, we do not oppose this Bill. Basically, it follows upon Labor's educational program. However, the Bill does have some inadequacies and I draw the attention of the Government to them. 
The first amendment which will be moved by the Opposition regards clause 7 of the Bill. Specifically, this is the provision in the Bill which permits State ministers for education to transfer funds received from the Schools Commission from capital to recurrent expenditure or from recurrent to capital expenditure with no reference to the Schools Commission. We will move an amendment to this clause because we seriously believe that such a provision will endanger the strategy of achieving resource targets. If the Schools Commission in consultation with the States- I think my colleague  Senator Button  has emphasised that a great deal of consultation with the States goes on and nothing about a State department is decided without consultation and agreement with that State- has judged that there is a need in a State for a level of resource in recurrent funding and it recommends that resource to the Australian Government which funds it, then we could have a situation under the legislation as it now stands where a State Minister responding perhaps to political pressures or to other kinds of pressures in his State could remove some of that recurrent expenditure and decide to build new schools with it. I am not saying that State Ministers act irresponsibly in this way but they have pressures to which they respond. It is quite possible that that could happen. That would be a serious interference with the national strategy for education. It would mean that the Australian Government via the Schools Commission would be pouring money in to bring up standards but the money could be taken from that and put into another area where the need was not greatest. With that sort of process there would be no logical development towards resource targets. The resources in recurrent education could remain very low and new schools which were not needed in that part of the State could be built. 
Our amendment does not set out to impose an inflexible and rigid condition of funding on the States. It sets out merely to ensure that if a State, after having conferred with the Schools Commission, finds that it has a genuine new need to transfer some of those funds from one category to another it can do so, but that decision to transfer funds from one category to another must be taken in consultation with the Schools Commissionin consultation with the national body which has as its aim the bringing up of all schools to desirable standards. I think that it is a very reasonable amendment and I hope that the Government will be able to accept it. 
I should like to clarify something which may have been understood, and that is that the bulk of Australian Government allocations for expenditure in the States on education is not tied in any way. Far and away the bulk of recurrent funds goes to the States for the States to administer according to their own decisions. It is only in these particular areas of need, where national strategies have been developed- such as a disadvantaged program- that funds are given for specific purposes. A lot was said last year, when attacks were being made on the Labor Government for the dramatically increased funding of education, about the undesirability of having a Schools Commission telling the States what to do with their education funds. The Schools Commission has never told the States what to do with their funds for education and it was never intended that it should do so. The bulk of educational funds goes to the States for use at their discretion and according to their needs. But where the Schools Commission is pursuing the objective of bringing specific areas of need up to standardsay, bringing libraries up to standard or bringing the poorer schools up to standard- then I think there is a very strong justification for giving funds to the States for specific allocation. Of course this represents a small part of the funds that the States receive, as I have said. 
Also in support of our amendment I point out that clause 7 applies only to government schools. It is only to State schools that the legislation seems to be eager to give this totally open-ended provision allowing exchange of funds from one category to another. So far as the funding of nongovernment schools is concerned, the present Government seems quite happy- indeed I think the non-government school sector is quite happy also- for non-government schools to receive specific purpose grants. So I suggest that if the non-government school sector is happy to receive specific purpose grants- and this sector has made tremendous progress in the improvement of its schools by this method of funding- there seems to be no reason for our putting into the legislation this dangerously open-ended provision in relation to the allocation of funds to State schools. 
The second amendment to be moved by the Opposition concerns clause 11. We shall move an amendment providing that a small percentage of the schools' total recurrent allocation should be made available for use by the schools at their own discretion. This is an exercise in local decision-making. Such a provision, if included in the legislation, would give effect to the whole philosophy of the Schools Commission reports with respect to school based decision making. It would give effect specifically to the provision contained in the 1976 special report of the Schools Commission which endorsed the idea of a small percentage of the recurrent funds being allocated to a school for use at its discretion. I hope that the Government will see fit to accept this amendment. As we know, that special report of the Schools Commission was endorsed by  Senator Guilfoyle  when she was spokesperson on education during the 1975 general election campaign. I believe that the Government's response to this amendment will be a test of how serious it is about its federalism policy and what its federalism policy actually means. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the National Advisory Committee for International Women's Year handed its report to the Prime Minister approximately a month ago? If so, when will the Prime Minister table this report, and when is it to be published and made available to the many people of Australia who are anxious to see it? 
I rise to support the amendment to clause 1 1 moved by the Opposition. In doing so, I disagree very strongly with the suggestion by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that that amendment is contrary to the recommendations in the Schools Commission report. Whilst the Minister is accurate in saying that the Schools Commission says that there should be no coercion he is not accurate in suggesting that the Schools Commission report opposes the principle of legislating for some degree of schoolbased decision making. We in the Opposition would agree that there should be no coercion. Certainly no element of coercion is suggested in the amendment. The amendment simply seeks to legislate to commit a certain degree of schoolbased decision making with proper consultation. There is no question of coercion. I am surprised that the Minister has suggested that such a question did arise. 
However, throughout both of the Schools Commission reports to which the Minister has referred there is a strong argument suggesting specific legislation of this kind. I quote from the Schools Commision report for the triennium 1976-78. Paragraph 13.39 reads: 
As a result of the general recurrent grants the Commission expects that all States will move expeditiously towards cash disbursements to schools for discretionary purposes. The Commission believes that it is not unrealistic to establish a goal for 1978 of S per cent of each school's total costs being provided in cash for allocation in ways determined, within reasonable limits, by the school itself; given the overall expenditure upon schools, that will be a substantial sum. Moreover, there is no reason why systems should not substantially exceed that figure. 
Again, in the 1976 report, which was endorsed by  Senator Guilfoyle  when she was speaking on behalf of the then Opposition in the December election campaign last year, we find provided in paragraph 2.3: 
Through its recommendations the Commission is seeking to move a greater range of decisions to the school community, where teachers, parents and students may particpate in making them. The Commission sees influence over expenditure as a fundamental part of this process and believes that within systems the first steps should be taken to make some of the operating funds for schools available to those who work in them. 
I suggest that the amendment moved by the Opposition is such a first step. It is not coercion. It is merely permissive legislation that would allow that first step- that first small step- towards school-based decision making to be made. 
The Minister has said that the amendment is not necessary. He states that he supports the concept of school-based decision making but that it is not necessary to include it in this piece of legislation. Indeed, this piece of legislation as it stands does not prevent schools having some funds to use at their discretion. But I think that something as novel in the Australian education scene as school-based decision making will not occur naturally. It will not occur out of a tradition where there has been no such phenomenon. It will not occur unless there is some encouragement, some legal facility, for such a development. 
If the federalism policy of the Government is not simply a policy for centralisation by the States and is not merely a policy of decentralisation to State levels and centralisation after that, I can see no reason why the Government will not accept this amendment. It is not in opposition to anything that the Minister has said with respect to parent involvement, community involvement and school-based decision making. It is not contrary to anything contained in either of the Schools Commission reports to which we have been referring in this debate. It is not coercive in any way. It simply gives effect to the sentiments expressed so often by the Minister in this chamber and on other occasions to the nation that it is time that we should be moving towards the situation when people involved in the running of schools at the grassroots level have some small say in the disbursement of some of their budgetary allocations. 
I do not think that the Minister up to this point has given us any reason for resisting this amendment. I am surprised that it was omitted from the Government's draft legislation, since what we propose is so clearly in line with what has been recommended by the Schools Commission and what has been said on so many occasions by the Minister himself. It would simply permit something to happen which we have all agreed in the course of this debate it is desirable should happen. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Can he explain to the Senate how his federalism policy takes account of the Australian Capital Territory? As the Australian Capital Territory is not a State, in what way will State-like revenues be raised to fund State-like government services in the Territory? Does the Minister agree that the Federal Government has no constitutional right to impose tax surcharges on Australian Capital Territory citizens? How then will the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory fare under the new tax arrangements hinted at in the Government's federalism policy? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, relates to the United Nations habitat conference to be held in Vancouver later this year. I ask: In view of the great importance to women of the issue of housing have any women been included in the Australian Government delegation? Were views of women's organisations sought in the preparation of the Australian delegation's brief? Were any women involved in the actual preparation of the Australian Government's delegation brief? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs and it follows upon my question to the Minister yesterday and his answer to the effect that the Australian Capital Territory will not be included in the federalism program in the next 12 months. I ask the Minister: Should I infer from his answer that the residents of the Australian Capital Territory can expect vast increases in the rates they pay during the next 12 months, since that would appear to be the only means open to the Government to raise the extra revenues it will require to pay for State-like services in the Territory? 
-I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That as of the 29th March 1976 opening hours of the Australian National Library have been reduced to the following times: Wednesday and Thursday, 9.30 a.m. to 10.00 p.m.: Monday, Tuesday, Friday. Saturday and Public Holidays, 9.30 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.: Sunday, 1.30 p.m. to 4.45 p.m. 
That the expenditure cutbacks and consequent reduction in the hours of opening of the Australian National Library has seriously disadvantaged part-time students who are able to devote only evening hours to study. 
That because of the reduced hours of operation, students, particularly those in the Arts Faculties, have a very limited time available in which to consult primary source material held at the Australian National Library. 
That the suspension of purchasing of books on an individual basis, and of university theses on micro-film will seriously disadvantage research students. 
That the Australian National University Library and the Canberra College of Advanced Education have only limited collections, both requiring to be complemented by the Australian National Library collections. 
That the lowering of educational standards as a consequence of the restrictions on educational facilities, would result in immeasurable non-economic cost to the community. 
That the Senate be notified that a similar petition has been handed to the House of Representatives with 2140 signatures. 
We your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that the Australian National Library be accessible to readers 9.30 a.m. to 10.00 p.m. daily. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1 should like to use the opportunity presented to me tonight to draw to the attention of the Senate the significance to the residents of the Australian Capital Territory of the economic statement made by the Government last Thursday night. In summary, the significance of that statement is increased unemployment and increased hardship of one kind or another for every family and for every resident of the Australian Capital Territory. There is no economic rationale in what was decided for the Australian Capital Territory, no new job opportunities, no consumer confidence and certainly no stimulus for business. I speak on these matters not only because of my concern as an elected representative of the people of the Territory but also because I think that the way in which the Government handles the situation in this Territory is a pretty good test of what sort of economic management it really can offer this country. 
This Government came to office on the promise that it would manage the economy. There is no more direct way in which it can do this than the way in which it can do it in the Territory where it has no State government to have to liaise with before it can introduce any measures. If we look at the employment situation we see that unemployment is raging in the Australian Capital Territory and can only be expected to increase as a result of the measures announced last Thursday night. For comparison I shall read out the figures for last month's unemployment compared with the figures for one year before that. In April 1975, 116 adult males were registered as unemployed and in April 1976 the number was 655. In April 1975 adult females registered as unemployed numbered 130 and in April 1976 there were 381. In April 1975 unemployed junior males numbered 89 and in April 1976 there were 450. In April 1975 there were 147 unemployed junior females and in April 1976 the number was 519. These most recent figures do not reflect the true picture because of the stipulations regarding married women who, in many cases, do not register as unemployed because they cannot draw unemployment benefit. The figures do not take account of the extent of unemployment among the young because young people who are not able to move elsewhere to look for employment cannot be registered for unemployment benefits. There are many young persons, particularly under the age of 17, who are genuinely unemployed in this Territory but whose parents do not wish them to leave home at this stage and whose unemployment is not reflected in those figures. 
In addition to this, the apprenticeship situation is quite drastic here. The number of apprenticeships available for young persons was very much lower this year than in previous years. Again, this is a direct result of the Government's policy in this Territory and, in particular, its effect on the construction industry. The situation with the National Employment and Training scheme is well known. It is no different in the Territory from what it is in the rest of Australia. Many of these people who are unemployed have no opportunity to train for employment. Probably in the Territory we have a worse situation than the overall national figure suggests. There is one vacancy for 12.5 unemployed. The decision of last Thursday night will maintain the artificially rigid restrictions on the Public Service. This means that there will be no new employment opportunities for those presently unemployed. There will be no employment opportunities at all for those young persons who normally would have gone into the Public Service. There will be no opportunity for the kind of training which the Public Service offered to school leavers. 
Turning to the construction industry, the Government has decided to cut $25.7m off the funds available for the National Capital Development Commission for the development of the Territory. Of course, this means even greater unemployment particularly in the building and construction areas. For example, last week a Canberra firm which is completely Canberra based and has been operating here for about 15 years-Colless Bros (Holdings) Pty Ltd- had to close down because there were no more contracts for which it could tender. It had to put 25 workers off. These were men who, in most cases, had been employed for several years in this Territory and who had their homes here. I cite that example but it is not the first and it certainly will not be the last. Big construction firms operating in the A.C.T., such as Leighton Contractors Pty Ltd and Citra Constructions Ltd were, at the beginning of the year, each employing about 600 men. Now they are down to 200 men. All of the remainder are unemployed with no possibility of employment resulting from last Thursday night's decision. 
In the  Canberra Times  of 22 May  Mr Alex  Hastie, the Executive Director of the Australian Capital Territory and Southern N.S.W. Housing Industry Association, predicted that up to 50 per cent of those at present employed in building and construction in the A.C.T. would be out of work in 12 months' time as a result of the Treasurer's Budget cuts. I remind the Senate that the construction industry employs 33 per cent of people in the private work force. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley),  in making his statement regarding these cuts, said that he hoped private enterprise would come in to the Territory and take over the kind of building and construction work which was formerly being done through NCDC contracts. The very reverse is happening as a result of these measures. Private enterprise is leaving the Territory. Any firms which have big branches elsewhere are pulling out completely. They cannot possibly afford to have expensive plant lying idle here. They cannot get any return on their investment. They are putting off the workers in the A.C.T. If they are big firms they are pulling out. If they are small firms they are going broke. There is no way in which these measures will encourage private enterprise. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory still does not seem to have grasped the interrelationship between the public and private sectors in the Territory, particularly in the building and construction industry where Government contracts stemming from the NCDC are let out to private contractors. There is a direct relationship between the public and private sectors. To talk of these measures, which are forcing private enterprise to go broke and to go out of the Territory, as if they could possibly attract private enterprise shows an absurd lack of realism in the desperate situation which faces us. Possibly there are a couple of areas of building where private enterprise could come in by itself without Government contracts and build. One of those areas would be home building- or it would be if the Government had introduced any reasonable measures to enable people to buy homes. But the reverse is the case. 
If we look at what has happened with building and home purchasing arrangements generally we find first that the Government building of houses will be cut by half. We find that interest rates on the purchase of Government homes which had been low at 4 per cent to 5 per cent for the very low income earners in our community will be increased to 9V4 per cent. We find that Commissioner for Housing loans which had already been restricted in their application by this Government have been reduced from $2 5m to $ 12m. So people are forced to remain in rental accommodation. What do we find there? We find that rents will be increased. Rates are going up and land owners who are letting out properties for investment naturally pass the increasing rates on to the tenants who no longer have rent control to give them any kind of protection. As well as this, home owners and tenants will be facing increased electricity charges as a result of last Thursday night's decision. 
When we turn to public transport we find another series of inexplicable measures which seem designed to punish the people of the Territory rather than to boost public transport or to provide any sort of service which the people might need. Fares will go up. The free bus service for school children will be cut out. New vehicles which are needed to provide the extended services the need for which has been caused by the growth of Canberra, and which are on order, for the most pan have been cancelled. Services will be reduced. As some sort of compensation for this attack on the public transport system which is already facing extreme difficulties the Minister for the Capital Territory tells us that he will encourage the availability of taxis. Are we to presume from this that parents are to use their new child endowment to send their children to school by taxi? Are we to presume that pensioners are to go to the hospital for their medical services by taxi? Are we to presume that people working in such places as hospitals, in factories at Fyshwick and as office cleaners, are to go to work by taxi? That certainly seems to be the intention of the Minister. He is reducing the bus service and suggesting that the availability of taxis will somehow compensate for the reduced public transport system. 
Community facilities are desperately needed in the new suburbs of Canberra but they will not be built. I do not know whether many honourable senators have seen very much of Canberra, other than the handsome areas surrounding Parliament House. Out in the new suburbs in the Woden Valley, Tuggeranong and the Belconnen Valley we have a lack of services which would compare with the worst of the outer new suburbs in Sydney and Melbourne. Community facilities are desperately needed there. They will not be provided at all. We were told this without any compensatory suggestion. 

 - Senator Wright suggests that I am romancing. Unfortunately, that is not the case. At some times it seems to me that what is happening is in the realm of fantasy rather than in the realm of reality. However, all the points I am making are taken from 2 statements. One was made by the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  and the other was made by the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Staley.  I am not surprised that the honourable senator regards them as unrealistic. I certainly do. Nevertheless, they are the measures intended to provide some sort of economic management for the Territory. Although the Government has made great play of the fact that the education budget has not been reduced significantly, when one turns to the Territory one finds that the $8m needed for the construction of new schools has been withdrawn and that the building of those schools will be postponed indefinitely. Again, that may not strike honourable senators from interstate as such a terrible thing because Canberra has a reputation for having very good schools and good school buildings, but given the nature of the growth of Canberra, the absence of new schools in many cases means the absence of any schools. It is not as though there were other schools to which the children could go. 
I turn to another subject which of course is of as much concern to the residents of the Territory as it is to residents elsewhere in Australia. I refer to the Government's intentions with respect to Medibank. Medibank had become accepted by Australians as a national health insurance scheme which was working efficiently and providing universal health cover in a very satisfactory way. Since the announcements of last Thursday night I have been besieged with inquiries, with questions such as these: What sort of provisions will there be for the chronically ill? Will private health insurance funds be expected to take over or can people stay in Medibank? How can people get specialist care if they do stay in Medibank? Who are the people who will be forced out of Medibank? What will the private funds charge? If most people do stay in Medibank, where are the funds for increased public hospital services to come from? Indeed, at the moment public hospital services can barely cope with the call on their facilities. If people are to stay in Medibank in large numbers there will be need for much greater investment in public hospital services, and there is no indication in  Mr Hunt's  statement that that will be forthcoming. 
Will the premium, which is to be some sort of alternative to the levy, be tax deductible? Why is a system of universal health insurance which is working well going to be disbanded at such an early stage- one might say at the very stage when it had started to work efficiently and provide the sort of service it was intended to provide? What is the economic rationale for this interference? How can the Government claim that the new Medibank measure is an economy measure, a measure which will reduce the cost of Government health services, when the Government cannot possibly know at this stage what its new measures will cost because it cannot possibly know how many people will stay in Medibank and how many people will opt out? The Government appears not to know whether the private funds will require government subvention. If the private funds do continue to require a government subvention, where is the great saving it is claimed that these measures will achieve? 
As yet there has been no reasoned explanation of these matters from Government spokesmen, and the effect on the community, and I speak particularly for the community of this Territory, is total confusion. In the case of people with large families or families with chronically ill members, there is very great anxiety. In the Australian Capital Territory we have the specific problem of the health centres, which were operating in a very economic and efficient way to provide a range of health services to the community. One of the new centres at Kambah has decided that it can take no more patients because the expected additional resources needed to provide additional services in a rapidly growing suburb have not been provided by this Government and there is no indication of when they will be provided. The problem of salaried specialists at our public hospitals continues. Although  Senator Baume  managed to score a debating point from me when I raised the subject the other evening, he cannot claim that the problem has been resolved. Those specialists who have resigned have not been replaced. The future of access to hospitals by private specialists has not been resolved, and those people in the Territory who have opted, and opted very heavily, for salaried specialist care have no way of knowing whether that care will continue to be available to them. 
No apology needed to be made to the Australian Medical Association. Although the honourable senator claimed that that meeting of the Australian Capital Territory Association did not represent all the doctors who were members of the ACTMA, and that indeed was the case, it was the case because the people organising the meeting refused to send notices of the meeting to doctors working as salaried specialists or working in health centres. That is the kind of manipulation of the community's need for health services which has been carried on by some elements of the ACTMA in Canberra. 
I have found, as have many of my colleagues on this side of the chamber, one measure in the new provisions which we do praise. That is the measure to increase child endowment. By itself, that is a very admirable measure, and I might even say it is one which could have been introduced earlier. However, when one looks at the other things that are going to happen to women in need one cannot feel particularly sanguine that their position is going to improve greatly. The supporting mother is to have her pension taxed. The availability of the National Employment and Training scheme has been reduced so that many women who are halfway through a training course will be forced to withdraw through lack of financial support and because this Government changed the terms under which they were undertaking their studies. No jobs are available for women seeking to support themselves or their families. Unfortunately, and I say that genuinely, the higher expenses for every family as a result of these measures will undermine to a great extent the benefit of increased endowment. 
I was not going to bring up the question of migration tonight, but as it has been the subject of debate I feel I must comment on the quite incomprehensible decision of the Government at this stage to increase immigration to a target of 70 000 persons. How can the Government justify bringing 70 000 migrants to this country when we have the highest rate of unemployment for many years, when we have a cutdown in all the services which migrants need and when we have a drastic cutdown in housing? I consider that it is the most irresponsible action possible to bring to this country people who have an expectation of reasonable living standards when they cannot be housed, when health sevices are in a mess and when there is no employment for them. 
If there is employment then I think at this stage it should be given to those currently trying to support families on the dole. Although there is some question of introducing a work test, it seems to me very unrealistic. I have heard already from the immigration office in London that they are being plagued with inquiries from people who want to come to Australia because they have heard that immigration is going to be increased. Although I agree with a lot of the things  Senator Lajovic  said about the difficulties faced by migrants in this country, those difficulties are being faced because migrants were brought here with inadequate assistance in matters such as English language, housing and social assimilation, and they were exploited by employers as cheap factory fodder. I cannot understand- and I would be most grateful for any elucidation of this policy by members of the Government- why at this particularly drastic time we are bringing migrants into the country when we cannot provide them with the services to which they are entitled. 
In conclusion, I want to mention only one other matter, that is, the cut in the budget for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I was fairly sceptical when the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  announced the inquiry into the ABC, following denials by various members of the Government that such an inquiry was about to take place. I was particularly sceptical because it was to be a private inquiry, and although members of the public, employees of the ABC and so on could make submissions, the inquiry was to be conducted in private. Therefore there would be no way of knowing what sort of evidence was received and what decisions were to be made until after they had been made. Now there is to be a cut of $6m, which in real terms is a 1 7 per cent cut, in the budget for the ABC. It seems to me that that decision in fact has pre-empted the inquiry into public broadcasting in this country and there is no reason to expect that the community will fare well out of such an inquiry. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Social Security relates to the new child endowment provisions. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether these provisions which are not taxable will be counted as income for the purpose of determining eligibility for the supporting mothers benefit or for the National Employment and Training scheme allowance? If they will be, has the Minister yet been able to calculate whether this will lead to cases where women in receipt of child endowment will actually lose a supporting mothers benefit or the training allowance currently being paid? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated cost of the committee reviewing the Trade Practices Act. 
How many people are involved and what are their salaries and/or sitting fees. 
What are the estimated administrative expenses. 
What are the total estimated travel costs and allowances. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: How many reports from the Bland Committee have now been completed? Which departments or bodies do these completed reports consider? In view of the vital interest of all Australians in these reports, and the special interest of many Australian Capital Territory citizens who are employed by the Australian Government, when does the Government intend to publish the reports? 
-My question which is directed to the Minister for Social Security arises out of a query which I received from the Working Women's Centre in Melbourne. It relates to a woman who has been sacked because of her inability to work following an accident. The woman is the family breadwinner and she applied for sickness benefits. She has been refused benefits by the Minister's Department until such time as she is visited by ' a man ' from the Department to see whether she is really the breadwinner. My question is: Is such an investigation carried out in relation to male breadwinners who seek sickness benefis? What evidence, apart from a dismissal notice and medical certificate, is required by the Department? What form will such an investigation take? 
I ask a series of questions of the Minister representing the Prime Minister which arise from the news of the cancellation of a grant of $100,000 made under the International Womens Year program for the purpose of investment in a television series on human reproduction to be produced by  Dr Germaine  Greer. Who was responsible for the decision to cancel the grant? By what authority was this contract made by the Labor Government cancelled? To what extent, if at all, were members of the International Women's Year Committee consulted regarding the breaking of this contract? What has happened to the $100,000 investment grant previously held in trust by the Australian Film Commission? If the grant is still being held in trust by the Australian Film Commission how will it be administered and for what purpose? 
-We are debating the 6 health Bills which affect the operation of the Medibank system and the Medibank levy. I oppose those 4 Bills which will interfere with procedures which have been developed under the Medibank system. We on this side of the chamber oppose those Bills because they constitute a violation of the major election promise of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. That promise was to maintain Medibank. By Medibank we mean and the community recognises a universal health coverage- a system of universal health insurance. The Government's proposals, contained in these 4 Bills, will undoubtedly destroy that system. Obviously the intention of the Government is to force 50 per cent of the people out of Medibank back into the private funds. There is no social or economic justification for tampering with Medibank in this way. Medibank has been accepted by the community. Many surveys and polls have demonstrated a very high levelalmost a complete level- of acceptance of Medibank by the community. 
Medibank as a national health insurance system is working remarkably well; so well that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the coalition parties included it in their election platform. It is simply ideological pigheadedness, party politics of the worst kind, which is motivating the Government to interfere with this system which is serving the community so satisfactorily. It is this sort of behaviour which brings politics and politicians into disrepute in the community. When a major program like Medibank is working efficiently for the benefit of all members of the. community, regardless of income, a responsible government should maintain that program regardless of who introduced it. Medibank is successful in providing automatic health insurance for everybody. It was a major triumph for the Labor Government. For that reason alone it appears that this conservative Government now feels that it must bring in some changes which are illogical, confusing and costly. These changes show that this Government will not live with a Labor program no matter how good it is. 
By this stage people have become used to the ease and efficiency of Medibank. Some of us have short memories so perhaps we should cast our minds back to the pre-Medibank days. Let us think about the situation with regard to health insurance then. What did we have? We had a proliferation of private funds and of rates and tables within those funds. We had a huge waste of contributors' money in administrative costs in running those numerous funds. In 1969 the Nimmo Committee reported that between 1 5 per cent and 20 per cent of every contributor's dollar went on the running costs of the private funds. Of course, in the case of Medibank, it is less than 5 per cent. A number of services were not covered properly by private funds. As well as the contributor's personal cost there was great cost to the community because the private funds were subsidised by the Government for 50 per cent of their costs. But perhaps the worst feature of the old private funds system was the fact that about 10 per cent of Australians- something like 1 million- at that time were not covered at all. They were not covered by any kind of health insurance. Most of the people in the one million were among the poor and disadvantaged in our community. They were the people most at risk and least able to bear the cost of huge medical expenses. 
Because of the high cost, administrative confusion and the lack of health insurance cover for many people, the Labor Government introduced Medibank. There still seems to be some confusion on the other side of the chamber over what Medibank was and is. Medibank is not a health system. It is not a system of health services. It is not nationalised health. It is not a system which interferes in any way with the practice of medicine by private practitioners. It is not a system which denies choice to people seeking medical attention. In fact, it increases choice. Medibank is simply a system of universal health insurance which gives automatic cover for health and medical charges to all Australians. At this stage it is paid for out of general revenue. Of course, it is true that the Labor Government intended to pay for Medibank by a modest levy which would have been at the rate of 1.6 per cent. This would have spread the burden very fairly over all wage earners. I point out that a calculation shows that a universal 1.6 per cent levy with a cut-off point of $200 would have saved $700m. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)- Senator Ryan,  it appears to me that you are reading your speech. Speeches should not be read in the Senate. 
Yes, I was reading that figure because I did not wish to mislead the chamber by misquoting the result of the 1.6 per cent levy. That would have been the result of the lew imposed by the Labor Government if the Bill had not been obstructed in the Senate. The situation now is that there will be a much higher levy of 2.5 per cent which will apply to wage earners below a certain point. Above a certain point of income the wage earner can opt out for what appears to be some kind of Budget package. So we now have the situation where the low to middle income earners will pay 2.5 per cent for Medibank coverage whereas the upper middle and higher income earners will pay much less than 2.5 per cent for the same kind of coverage. Here we have a reversal of the principle of progressive taxation. We have a situation where the lower income earners will pay a higher proportion of their income for the standard medical cover than will the upper income group. For this reason alone we on this side of the chamber oppose these changes. 
Even though there were a number of obstructions to the implementation of Medibank, as a health insurance system it cannot be claimed to be costly. The sorts of impediments which add to the cost of Medibank include the refusal of some doctors to bulk bill, the refusal of some private insurance agents to act as Medibank agents, the over-claiming by some few doctors- probably very few with respect to services- and the use by some doctors in some situations of a fee for service method of charging rather than a salaried method or a sessional method. These factors have undoubtedly added to the cost of Medibank. Despite all these things, at the moment Medibank is costing somewhere between $80m and $90m less than was anticipated for this year. Certainly, as Medibank is administered, running costs consume only 5 per cent of contributions as opposed to 15 per cent to 20 per cent of contributors' money which was consumed in administrative costs under the private health schemes. There can be no doubt that the Medibank system of health insurance is less costly than the old private system. Inevitably it must be less costly than the dual system, the complicated, complex system now proposed by the Government. 
There has been no significant evidence of overuse of Medibank services by patients. Apparently there is some evidence of overuse or perhaps abuse by some doctors. I understand that the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  is investigating this matter but that sound data is not yet available. The problems I mentioned about overuse, the costly use of the fee-for-service method of charging and so forth could be overcome by procedural reforms to the Medibank system as it stands rather than by undermining and changing the whole system or by interfering with the universality and automatic nature of the coverage and the relatively low cost of the coverage. If we look at some of the specific proposals which are causing a great deal of concern we find that the first proposal is the claim that this will save $800m. As yet there has been no satisfactory explanation by members of the Government as to how this figure of $800m was reached and how the Government can be sure that is the amount that is to be saved. It seems to me to be impossible for the Government to know at this stage just what it is letting itself in for by way of financial commitment under these new proposals. 
The Government cannot possibly know at this stage who will stay in Medibank and who will get out of Medibank. Certainly the Government has intentions in this regard, but it cannot possibly know these things because it is still unknown what requirements the private health insurance funds will have by way of subsidies and what fees they will set for particular kinds of packages. Until those things are known the Government cannot ascertain how many people will be covered for health insurance through the public Medibank system. Although the Government has gone to the trouble of producing some kind of brochure which claims to give information to clarify the situation for the general public, I think that the Government's claim of savings of a specific figure is still totally unjustified. I will give an example of the kind of information in the brochure that is supposed to help people to make a decision. The brochure reads: 
Both (A)  and (B)  - 
These are the 2 tables being explained-  are estimates and are subject to confirmation by private funds. A higher table will apply for private rooms. 
How can anyone make decisions as to what course of action to take in respect of health insurance when these imprecise speculations represent the only information on which they can base their decisions? The Government certainly cannot be sure at this stage that its plan to force 50 per cent of people out of Medibank will succeed. Other increases in costs will undoubtedly arise from the establishment of a dual system of health insurance. 
I will not refer again to the huge administrative costs which were incurred under the previous system. Increased costs must also arise under the new system because of the need to review the premium annually. The Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  has announced that it will probably be necessary to review the premium annually. Indeed, with inflation and spiralling medical costs it must be done. That review alone will involve administrative costs. Other costs that we can expect have been referred to by my colleague,  Senator Sibraa.  These include the costs associated with people changing thenincome level, by being sacked, by dropping out of the work force for domestic reasons or by dropping out of the work force to become full time students; or by students leaving full time time study and entering full time or part time employment. All these changes will affect the levy a person may pay or, in the case of a premium, will affect a person's eligibility to pay the premium. It seems to me that there will be a need for a proliferation of forms, calculations and computations to work out just what each citizen is required to pay by way of health insurance cover, either private or public, each year. As yet we have had no indication from the Government as to what sorts of costs it envisages will be required to cope with these changes. 
The other disturbing aspect of the Government's claim that it is saving a large amount of public money by these proposals is that the proposals do not come to terms with what were really the main causes for the large costs incurred under the Medibank program. These costs were not incurred, as I have said, in the actual running of the health insurance program; they seemed to stem largely from the very rapid increases in doctors fees over the last few years and the increases in hospital charges. They also came about through the insistence by many members of the medical profession to work on a fee for service basis rather than on a sessional payment basis. There is nothing in the present proposals which show a genuine commitment by the Government to control doctors fees or to rationalise the provision of health services by a commitment to sessional, rather than fee for service payments where it is medically desirable. I do not suggest that there should be sessional payments in all cases but obviously there are some cases, particularly with regard to hospital services, where a sessional payment is quite desirable in medical terms. It does not detract from the kind of service a doctor can give and, of course, is much more rational in economic terms. These 2 areas of costs- the doctors, fees and the method of charging, which are the main causes for the increased costs associated with Medibank- are not encountered by the Government's proposals. 
The costs incurred by the community in its need for health services will continue. People will not get sick less often and they will not require hospitalisation less often as a result of the Government's proposals. The cost must be borne by the community one way or the other. It seems to me- I think this is a view held generally by honourable senators on this side of the chamberthat as costs for medical and hospital services must continue to increase they should be paid for in a way which is most equitable and most efficient, and which rationalises the resources available for the purposes of providing medical and hospital services to the general community. I submit that the system established under Medibank did all of those things. It rationalised the collection of health insurance contributions; it rationalised the payment of rebates to people; it offered convenient and efficient methods of allowing doctors to claim if they wished to bulk bill; and it generally spread the cost of the provision of health services equally throughout the community. 
The effects of the latest proposals on individual members of the community apart from the effects on a person's health, are, I think, very disturbing. I am sure all honourable senators have been besieged with inquiries from their constituents as to where they stand with regard to the new proposals and what sort of action they should take in order to ensure that they and their families are properly covered for all eventualities. Some of the questions that remain unanswered include the following: Will private patients receive preferential treatment over Medibank patients? Will some doctors refuse Medibank patients? Will the over-taxed public hospitals find that they have to refuse private patients, thus forcing private patients to use private hospitals which in some cases are very definitely inferior to public hospitals? Will private patients find that they have to pay for services at present offered free at health centres, such as those in the Australian Capital Territory? Will the allocation of only $108m to the hospital development program for 1976-77, which is a reduction in real terms on last year's allocation, mean that the future development of the public hospital system is in jeopardy? Will this result in a 2-class system of health care in Australia- one for the rich and one for the poor? As any possible answer to these questions at this stage are not reassuring, to say the least, we on this side of the chamber persist in our opposition to the Government's proposals and strongly condemn its efforts to destroy the efficient and popular system of automatic and universal health coverage which was established by the Labor Government when it set up Medibank. 
I rise to support the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 2). We on this side of the chamber recognise that the Bill will make certain improvements in the financial situation of some very poor women and some very poor families. Whilst I agree with the provisions in the Bill and recognise them as a modest advance, I cannot possibly agree with some of the extravagant claims which have been made by honourable senators on the Government side about the importance of the measure. The Bill simply increases the child endowment payment to a higher level which is more in keeping with the cost of living these days than was the old child endowment provision. The updating of this provision was long overdue, and we recognise that. 
But that is nothing more than an adjustment to payments already established. 
There is no question of the provisions of this Bill providing independence for women, as some speakers on the Government side have claimed. In fact, by its very nature child endowment will benefit only women who are dependent on their husband's income or on a government benefit. If a mother is a wage earner she will get no benefit because she will lose her tax deduction. If a mother has a spouse who is a middle income to high income earner that family will get no benefit because, once again, they will lose their tax deduction. 
I am not criticising this measure but I am criticising the claim that this improvement in the child endowment payment, by itself, constitutes some sort of independence for women. It does not. Poor women, particularly poor women with large families, are still oppressed and powerless in this society. I think there has been something of a misdirected moralism from some speakers on the Government side of the chamber which has appealed to the prejudice of some sections of the community towards the belief that somehow being a poor mother is a better position to be in than any other position a women can be in in society. I bring this matter up in this debate because this kind of division of women into the deserving poor mothers and the other kinds of women who have jobs or who think they may like to train or study to get jobs is very mischievous. It causes hostility between different groups of women who should be supporting each other because, after all, they do have common objectives. 
The situation in Australian society today- it has been the situation for a long time- is that all women work at some stage of their lives. There are very few women now who do not work at some stage. Virtually all girls on leaving school or tertiary studies go into the work force and remain there for some time. The majority of them drop out ofthe work force while they have their families. Some return to the work force when the children are older. Some have babies and cannot afford to drop out of the work force at all. So working is an experience which virtually all women in our society have. I think it is very mischievous for some spokesmen and spokeswomen for the conservative elements in our community to talk as though there were some contradiction between working women and women who say at home- as though there were some serious conflict of interest. There is not. 
Just as most working women have children and are therefore aware of the needs of families, particularly poor families, and are happy to support an increase in child endowment, so I think we should encourage women who are at present at home with their children to think in terms of supporting policies for women who need or wish to work. There is no point in setting women in different life styles up against each other for the purpose of appealing to certain prejudices in the community. 
The extent of discrimination against women in the work force is still very great. I hope that the Government in making this admirable small measure towards helping the position of poor women at home will not feel that it has done enough for women and will not ignore the extent of discrimination which is still suffered by women in the work force. I refer briefly to a report which I received today and which, I think, was tabled yesterday and which is entitled  Equality in Employment: The Second Annual Report of the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation 1974-75.  On pages 6 and 7 of this report there is evidence to show that discrimination against women in the work force on the basis of sex is still extremely widespread and extremely disadvantageous to those women. I will not read the findings of this Committee but I recommend the report, particularly to those members of the Government who may be tempted to feel that the Government has done enough for women by increasing the child endowment benefit. 
If we are to talk about giving independence and real choice to women, there is much more a responsible government needs to do. The Labor Government, which was a responsible government, started to do many things in the areas of improving educational opportunities for women, in providing training opportunities for women so that when they went into the work force they could take skilled and rewarding employment, and in such things as removing tertiary fees which allowed women who had never had the opportunity to undertake tertiary studies to do so. Perhaps the most important thing done by the Labor Government in relation to giving women real choice and independence was the formulation of a national child care program. This was a radical departure from what had been the attitude of previous governments towards the care and education of young children. 
I was quite amazed last night to hear  Senator Baume,  speaking for the Government, claim that this Bill, which increases child endowment payments, represented some sort of radical program for a genuine redistribution of wealth throughout the community, that it was innovative and that nothing like this had ever been done for women or families before. These claims are totally exaggerated and inaccurate. I suggest that programs started under the Labor Government, such as the National Employment and Training scheme which for the first time gave women and men an opportunity to train for employment on an allowance comparable to average weekly earnings, were a much more radical step. The setting up of a national child care program, which I am pleased to see this Government will continue in some way, was much more radical. Of course, the removal of discrimination within the Public Service gave more opportunities to women, as did the introduction of maternity leave and, to a lesser extent, paternity leave for government employees. 
The other claim that has been made during the course of this debate is that women now will have a choice to stay at home and not work and that this is a choice which most women want. I have pointed out that, by offering $8.50 to a woman with 2 children and a little more to a woman with 3 children, the Government really is not offering something comparable to a wage. One could have gained the impression, from listening to some of the speakers last night, that this child endowment provision was intended to be some sort of mother's wage on the cheap. I think that is a quite insulting suggestion. I also found  Senator Baume  's suggestion that this Bill recognised the productivity of women in the home to be rather insulting. If we are to look for some sort of financial recognition of the productivity of the woman in the home, I hope that it would measure something more than $8.50 for the work involved in caring for 2 children. I hope that  Senator Baume  is listening to these remarks and that he will reconsider the absurdity of some ofthe claims he made last night. 
I return to the question of choice for women to enter the work force. I think that we in the Australian Labor Party have always considered it desirable that women have a genuine choice as to whether they go to work or stay at home; but we recognised that for many women there was no such choice. We tried to institute government funded programs through which such a choice could be exercised. Many of these, like the National Employment and Training scheme, have been wound down almost to a standstill by the present Government, thus actually reducing the genuine choice available to women in this circumstance. There is another claim that has been made, I think by  Senator Walters.  She said that the high proportion of women in the work force in the last couple of years came about somehow as the result of a Labor Government. This is patently absurd. I wish to cite the figures in a table taken from the Schools Commission report entitled  Girls, Schools and Society.  The table itself was prepared by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. It gives some indication of the fact that the participation of married women and mothers in the work force has been increasing steadily since 1947. It increased most dramatically during the period of the former Liberal-National Country Party Government. For example, in 1 947 the proportion of all working women who were married was 15.3 per cent. In 1971, when we still had a Liberal-National Country Party Government, it was 56.8 per cent. That figure increased by 1974 to 63.8 per cent. Similarly, the proportion of all married women who were in paid employment in 1947 was 6.5 per cent; in 1 97 1 , again still during the period of a Liberal-National Country Party Government, it was 32.8 per cent; and in 1974 it was 40.5 per cent. 
I hope that my reference to those figures will prevent from being made yet again in the Senate the claim that somehow the high participation of mothers and married women in the work force was a phenomenon that came about only as a result of the Labor Government and somehow as a result of pressures put on families by the Labor Government. Clearly, this increased participation in the work force has been going on ever since the end of the Second World War and is to be explained by a number of complex sociological factors, not the least of which, I suggest, is the consumerism and materialism in Australian society, particularly during the 1950s and 1960s, which were encouraged, aided and abetted by a Liberal business-orientated government which set fairly unrealistic standards of consumerism for the average family. It was these sorts of pressures that caused women to go out to work. 
Other sorts of pressures that caused women to go out to work in the 1 950s and particularly in the 1960s included the fact that Federal funding of education was so low that women felt they had to go to work to be able to improve the educational opportunities of their children by sending them to private schools, which they considered at that time to be better, or by supplementing their children's educational resources through the purchase of books, extra lessons, tutoring and things of that kind. Another factor was the neglect of housing policy by the Liberal-National Country Party Government during that period. This placed a great deal of pressure on people. I suggest that, if we really want to understand why married women went into the work force in such large numbers during that period, we can gain enlightenment on the subject from the sorts of policies pursued by the Liberal-National Country Party Government during that time. It is totally inaccurate to try to look at such a complex social change as the change in life style of married women and families in terms of anything that might have happened during the  5  years of the Labor Government. I hope that we will not hear those assertions in the Senate again, because they are inaccurate and ill-founded. They would be extremely confusing to whoever might be listening to the debates. 
There is one provision of the Bill itself about which I have heard some criticism, and I draw it to the attention of the Government. I am glad that  Senator Carrick,  the Minister for Education, is here while I am speaking because it bears some relationship to a matter on which he spoke this morning in the Senate. I refer to the question of tertiary allowances for students. The situation of students on tertiary allowances, particularly students from poorer families or middle income families, is very grim at the moment. I think  Senator Carrick  acknowledged that this morning. There are a number of problems for these students, one of which is that if they wish to take the full living away from home allowance, which in itself is a fairly small amount of money to try to live on while studying, they need to be independent of their parents for 2 years. I think that is unsatisfactory. I do not see why a student aged 18 years cannot claim independence and the full allowance straight away. Nevertheless, that is something for future consideration. I am a little worried, and some of the students who were lobbying here last night in respect of the tertiary allowances were worried, that by extending, in terms of the definition, the period of childhood to 25 years for the purpose of allowing a mother to claim the child endowment benefit the legislation may be jeopardising the possibility of those students gaining full living away from home allowances or full tertiary education allowances. I draw that matter to the attention of the Government for further consideration. I am not quite sure whether the conclusions I am suggesting are sound. I have not had enough time to work through the matter. I hope that the Government will give some attention to it. 
The other suggestion that has been made in respect of this child endowment provision is that somehow or other it is achieving the objective of a guaranteed minimum income. We have heard quite a lot of quotations from the relevant Henderson reports on poor families and quite a lot of references to the fact that the Government now is adopting Professor Henderson's recommendations in respect of child endowment. In order to put this series of claims into perspective, I point out that a number of reports relating to poverty came from the Henderson inquiry. There were a number of recommendations, of which that for increases in child endowment- that is, increases in cash payments to poor families- was only one. They were not the complete answer to poverty; they were never intended to be. My understanding of the overall views of the Henderson report with respect to a guaranteed minimum income was that increased cash payments to families by way of child endowment payments would be only one of the steps necessary to establish a guaranteed minimum income. I have not detected so far from statements that have come from the Government any other measures which it intends to introduce as a move towards what I would consider to be a desirable position, and that is a guaranteed minimum income for all non-wage earning adults. 
The other aspect which concerns me about the tenor of the debate and some of the claims which have been made is that the Government may find justification in this legislation for cutting down on other kinds of public services such as the provision of health services, education services, community facilities and housing, to name a few. While it is true that the Henderson report recommended increasing cash payments to families I do not think the findings oppose the provision of services to poor families. After all, with the $ 10 or even $20 a week that a mother will receive by way of child endowment, she cannot buy good education for her children; she cannot purchase housing; she cannot get access to community facilities. There will still be a need for the Government to pour a great deal of money into public services if the opportunities of poor families are to be improved. Money alone will not improve the opportunities of poor families. Access to good education and good health care and the availability of reasonably priced housing will also improve, perhaps even more significantly improve, opportunities for poor families. 
I think either the last  speaker  for the Government, or perhaps it was  Senator Baume  last night, said in conclusion that there would be many more measures to assist poor families. I will wait with interest to see what these measures are. I sincerely hope that they will come soon. Although we all acknowledge that an advance has been made in respect of child endowment payments, we on this side ofthe chamber recognise that it is a very small advance and that there are many more actions that a responsible government can take if it is genuine about improving opportunities in life for poor families. There are certainly many more steps that this Government can take if it is at all interested in improving opportunities for women. I support the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated total cost of the Medibank Review Committee. 
How many people are involved in the inquiry and what are their salaries  and/or sitting fees. 
What are the estimated administrative expenses. 
What are the total estimated travel costs and allowances. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated cost of the Bland Committee of Inquiry into public expenditure. 
How many people are involved and what are their salaries and /or sitting fees. 
3 ) What are the estimated administrative expenses. 
What are the total estimated travel costs and allowances. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated total cost of the Hay inquiry into the effectiveness of the delivery of services financed by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
How many people are involved in the inquiry and what are their salaries and/or sitting fees. 
3 ) What are the estimated administrative expenses. 
What are the total estimated travel costs and allowances. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated total cost to the Government of the Income Security Review. 
How many people are involved, and what are their salaries and/or sitting fees. 
What are the administrative expenses. 
What are the total estimated travel costs and allowances. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister instigated yet the review of the Commonwealth Employment Service which he promised recently; if so, what is the estimated total cost of this review. 
How many people are or will be involved, and what are their salaries and /or sitting fees. 
What are the estimated administrative expenses. 
What are the total estimated travel costs and allowances. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister established an inquiry to investigate the role of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, as he promised recently; if so, what is the estimated total cost of this review. 
How many people are or will be involved, and what are their salaries and/or sitting fees. 
3 ) What are the estimated administrative expenses. 
What are the total estimated travel costs and allowances. 
asked the Minister representing  the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated cost to the Government of the current review of legal aid. 
How many people are involved and what are their salaries. 
What are the estimated administrative expenses. 
What are the total estimated travel costs and allowances. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Who was responsible for the decision to cancel a grant of $100,000 made to  Dr Germaine  Greer under the International Women's Year program for the purpose of investing in a television series on human reproduction. 
2 ) By what authority was this contract made by the Labor Government cancelled. 
To what extent, if at all, were members of the International Women's Year Committee consulted regarding the cancellation of the grant. 
What has happened to the grant previously held in trust by the Australian Film Commission. 
If the grant is still being held in trust by the Commission, how will it be administered and for what purposes. 
an- Alternate: Representative of Department of Primary Industry at Australian High Commission in London. 

 Dr K. Radway Allen, Scientific Adviser; Chief of Division of Fisheries and Oceanography, CSIRO. 

 Mr J. L. Bannister Scientific Adviser; Director of Western Australian Museum. 
The subject of a complete moratorium was not included in the agenda for the June 1976 meeting. The Australian delegation was instructed to follow the advice of the Scientific Committee in respect of the application of moratoria on catching of any species on a global basis or to individual stocks which are endangered. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether all the recommendations in the Schools Commission report of July 1976 will be implemented by the Government? If not, which recommendations will not be implemented? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated total cost of the proposed review of broadcasting in Australia. 
How many people are or will be involved in the inquiry and what are their salaries and/or sitting fees. 
3 ) What are the estimated administrative expenses. 
What are the total estimated travel costs and allowances. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of an article which appeared in today's  Canberra Times  in which it is alleged that an officer of her Department called on a widow whose husband had died the previous day and collected his uncashed pension cheque? Can the Minister say whether this extremely distressing action was an over-zealous response by the officer to the Government's policy of reducing public expenditure? If the action was not prompted by ministerial direction, can the Minister assure the Senate that such unjustified and intrusive behaviour by her officers will not be repeated? 
I rise to speak tonight in a rather strange debate. The Senate is debating a Bill for the repeal of the Social Welfare Commission Act 1973, yet the speakers in this debate so far have almost entirely spoken in support of that body which is being repealed. Although they have not opposed the repeal of the Commission they have given no reason why it should be repealed. I was rather confused after listening for some time to the previous  speaker, Senator Baume.  He was so enthusiastic in his support of the Social Welfare  Commission,  particularly the way in which he saw it as a formidable critic of the Whitlam Government and its proposals, that I thought for a moment he was going to oppose the legislation before us tonight and vote for the retention of the Social Welfare Commission for that reason if for that alone. However, he did not do that. 
I will not be opposing the repeal of the Social Welfare Commission Act. Like my colleague,  Senator Grimes,  who has already spoken in this debate, I accept the necessity at this stage for the repeal of the Social Welfare Commission. But I regret that necessity. I rise to speak also because I think there are some questions to be raised about the future performance of the functions which have been carried out by the Social Welfare Commission to date. When the Commission was established it was given a number of functions, the major one being to make recommendations to the Minister for furthering the achievement of a nationally integrated social welfare plan. Its functions included the requirement, set out in section 14 of the Act, that it should make recommendations for avoiding duplication of social welfare programs and for promoting the maximum efficiency and effectiveness of the community social welfare effort. 
It seems to me at this stage of the development of social welfare programs in this country that neither of those objectives has been achieved. Certainly we do not have anything at this stage that could be called a nationally integrated social welfare plan and we still have a multitude of duplication and fragmentation of services, as any person who has fallen into the welfare network and tried to avail himself of welfare benefits will tell you only too readily. So at this stage there is still a need for a body to perform the functions which the Social Welfare Commission was set up to perform. I suggest to honourable senators that that need is greater at this particular period of our social and economic history than it has been in previous times. I refer to the current economic situation, in particular to the current excessively high rate of unemployment being experienced. Because of this high rate of unemployment and the associated disruption to many individuals and groups in society there is a greater call on social welfare programs than previously and, I think, a greater opportunity to focus on the inadequacy of many of our programs, and in particular the lack of co-ordination between them. 
I think that at this period when we have many Australians dependent on welfare benefits we might start to consider very seriously the necessity for something like a guaranteed minimum income scheme for all individuals and families in our society. As yet we are not very close to having the machinery for implementing such a scheme. There are many women, who formerly had an opportunity to go out to work and support their families, but now exist on the supporting mother's benefit. They are experiencing many difficulties in supporting their families on that benefit and experiencing many difficulties in the administration of that benefit. At this time we might again turn our attention to a different kind of measure of eligibility for financial support for supporting mothers. What I am referring to, and perhaps I should make myself a little clearer, is the fact that we hear again and again- this matter has been raised in this chamber- that the eligibility of a single mother for support from the Government for her family seems somehow to be connected with her personal and sexual relationships. Although the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has assured this chamber that there is no moralism operating in the payment of benefits to supporting mothers, nevertheless we hear from supporting mothers that they are subjected to impertinent and prurient questioning from field officers. Apart from the fact that there may be undue moralising and prurience on the part of some of these officers there is a very real problem. In what way can we measure the need of a supporting mother who may have other relationships. I think there is a difficulty in formulating some way of measuring her economic necessity whilst at the same time preserving her civil liberties with respect to her personal relationships. 
I am arguing for a better system of social security payments than we have at present. I am arguing for the development of a way of measuring the economic need of supporting mothers- amongst others- which would not involve an intrusion into her personal life. I do not think that that is unreasonable but some difficulties exist in formulating such a proposal. It is to just that sort of new way of measuring economic need that a body like the Social Welfare Commission could have devoted itself. But it no longer exists. 
I certainly agree with  Senator Baume.  In fact, we seem to be in agreement on many points this evening. I quoted that particular example because I think it demonstrates that there is a real problem in terms of the provision as well as the administration of social welfare and in ensuring that field officers carry out the Government's policies and do not project their own attitudes into their work. I think it is unfortunate that the Social Welfare Commission is being abolished at a time when the sorts of functions it could have performed are very much needed. It is unfortunate, too, that the proposals put up to date by the Government for replacing the Social Welfare Commission and the work it was doing do not seem to be an adequate replacement. We on this side of the chamber had hoped that the Government would formulate a better plan for the development of social welfare having regard to the enthusiasm for the Social Welfare Commission and the Australian Assistance Plan which has been so often expressed by Government supporters. 

 Senator Baume spoke tonight with such enthusiasm about the Social Welfare Commission that I wondered why he was not opposing its repeal. I am pleased to note that his expressions of support tonight are not new but that he has been a consistent supporter of the Social Welfare Commission. I quote from an article written by  Senator Baume  which appeared in the AMA  Gazette  on 26 June 1 975: 
As far as I am concerned, any proposal to abolish the Social Welfare Commission will fail. The proposal is one of the most ignominious retreats from decentralised government seen in recent years. 
The article went on to say: 
Many of us feel that the placing of the Commission under departmental control would be one way of clipping its wings. We do not want this. 
Although  Senator Baume  's enthusiasm for the Social Welfare Commission has not decreased, his determination to maintain the Commission seems to have disappeared entirely. But it is not only  Senator Baume  who has been an enthusiastic supporter of the Social Welfare Commission and the concept on which it was based. In the election campaign of 1975 the coalition parties' policy contained repeated references to the importance of such a concept. The social welfare policy of the coalition Parties stated: 
It is essential that there be a permanent body with the capacity to provide analyses of overall welfare priorities, evolving social needs, and evaluations of program effectiveness. This has to be a continuing process and carried out with the highest integrity and objectivity. We will encourage and be responsive to independent and critical analysis of our policies. 
Similarly, with reference to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation the coalition's policy on science and technology stated: 
We recognise that bodies connected with research and development need substantial independence from government controls and supervision to operate effectively with respect to their policies and personnel and maintain independent initiatives. 
Despite those commitments to a nationally developed social welfare body- independent, objective, able to operate outside the framework of the bureaucracy- the provisions made to date by the Government following the abolition of the Social Welfare Commission fall far short of those objectives. I have read with care the Minister's second reading speech and, although most of the functions of the former Social Welfare Commission will continue in some form or another, the more valuable and innovatory aspects of the Commission's work will be lost in the new arrangements. I should like to comment briefly on that, firstly in relation to the need for research and data analysis. I will not describe that need because it has been described adequately already by previous speakers in the debate tonight. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman) Senator Ryan,  I had noticed this. I thought you were reading some quotations. 
-Yes, I was. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I accept that, but I ask you to bear in mind the point of order raised by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I will bear in mind the point of order that has been raised. I was reading quotations. If the honourable senator who raised the point of order cared to look at the notes before me he would see that I was not reading my speech. 
Nevertheless, I will endeavour to keep my eyes at a different level and so assure the honourable senator that there are no grounds for the objection. Although the Minister has announced that a new unit will be set up within the University of New South Wales for research and data collection, at this stage I doubt whether such a unit in a university will be able to repeat the kind of research work that has been carried out by the Social Welfare Commission.  Senator Baume  gave the Senate a long list of the research activities of the Social Welfare Commission, and I doubt that the unit being set up for the purpose will be able to continue that breadth of research. I wonder too how the functioning of the new unit in the University of New South Wales will be affected by the restriction of funds allocated to the universities. It is my understanding that there will be no new developments in our universities as a result of the last Budget, and I wonder if the unit will have sufficient funds to perform the sorts of functions in the research and social welfare areas which the Social Welfare Commission was performing. 
Another indication of what is to come is contained in the Minister's description of the consulting groups. I do not oppose the idea of having consultative groups. In fact, the Labor Government during its period in office set up many consultative groups. I think that is a very useful exercise, but I do not believe that consultative groups alone can replace the kind of work done by an independent objective body. Naturally, consultative groups represent the organisations from which they come and their advice to government could not possibly be as comprehensive as the advice of a separate independent statutory body. 
We have been told by the Minister that research projects not completed by the Social Welfare Commission will be completed, but we have been given no indication of future field work that may be carried out by the Department of Social Security, which has taken over the work of the Social Welfare Commission. Overall, the new arrangements for the continuation of the work of the Commission suggest fragmentation and a breaking down of the excellent teamwork which had been developed by the Social Welfare Commission. I think that fragmentation must lead inevitably to poorer quality advice, to less innovation, and to a diminishing of progress towards the original objective of the Social Welfare Commission, that is, the formulation of an integrated national social welfare plan. 
I had intended to speak of the excellent work published so far by the Social Welfare Commission, but as  Senator Baume  has already given such a comprehensive list, which no doubt he had memorised in order not to have to read it in the chamber, I will not repeat it. I myself have not memorised it and if I were to read the list I might be called to order again. Suffice it to say that I agree that in its 3 years of operation the Social Welfare Commission did an enormous amount of work in preparing reports on a very wide range of social welfare issues. Its reports were always progressive; they looked at new approaches and new solutions to long-standing problems. They always added something to any debate to which they were contributed, and I think that all of us who are concerned with social welfare are indebted to the Commission for its reports and will refer to them often in the future. In conclusion, I should like to repeat that I doubt whether the arrangements made by the Government for the carrying on of the functions performed by the Social Welfare Commission will be adequate for what we all seem to agree is necessary, that is, a nationally integrated social welfare plan. I hope that in the future the Government will see fit to reconstruct a body similar to the Social Welfare Commission, a body having objectivity, independence, adequate resources and a national monitoring, evaluating and co-ordinating role. 
I present the following petition from 78 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into A.B.C. programmes. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the enquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas from 1st October, 1974, the National Employment and Training System came into operation; 
And at that time the then Government agreed that Widow pensioners and recipients of Supporting Mothers Benefit will be in no way disadvantaged . . . 'under the National Employment and Training System; 
And that 'for all trainees over 2 1 years and Junior trainees with dependents, a full-time training allowance equivalent to the Average Adult Male Award Wage, which will be adjusted quarterly- at the present time approximately $90.00 per week is to be provided; 
And that there is very strong objection to the reduction in training allowance to trainees under the National Employment and Training System, which became effective from the 1st April, 1976, as this has placed these trainees at a considerable financial disadvantage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the members in the Senate assembled will take the most urgent steps to readjust the payments under the National Employment and Training System so that they are equivalent to the Average Adult Male Wage; thus honouring the Governments contract with the said students. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to a program broadcast nationally on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio on Saturday 21 August. The program, called  The Coming Out 1976 Show,  was concerned with the experiences of several women in receipt of the supporting mothers' benefit. Is the Minister aware of the contents of the program? If so, can the Minister comment on allegations made by women that they have been repeatedly subjected to prurient and intimidatory questioning by field officers of her department with regard to their personal relationships? Can the Minister comment on what seems to be the practice, although not the policy, of her department in respect of supporting mothers; that is, where a supporting mother shares accommodation with a male person she is automatically assumed to be in a de facto relationship with that person and thus to be ineligible for the supporting mothers' benefit? Will the Minister agree that such an assumption often is unwarranted and causes a great deal of hardship to mothers genuinely in need of the benefit? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! The Chair cannot hear all of the questions being asked. 
I present the following petition from 1 10 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise to make my contribution to the Budget debate and in doing so I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt.  I take this opportunity to remind honourable senators of the content of that amendment which, in part, states:  . . the Senate condemns the Budget because: 
1 ) it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
it abdicates Federal Government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or to institute additional charges, or both; 
it introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending; 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship notably aborigines, the unemployed and migrants; and 
5 ) it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence. 
Of the many omissions, inadequacies, dubious commissions, confusions and deceptions in the Budget, there is one area about which I would like to speak tonight. I think it demonstrates, particularly clearly, the incompetence of this Government as an administrator in the area of social policy and the inadequacies of the economic strategy of reducing spending in the public sector. I refer to the funding of education. Whilst all honourable senators in this chamber are aware of the various demands by the different sectors of education placed upon the taxpayers' money and are aware of the various needs throughout the education community one very clear fact emerges from this Budget. There is to be a contraction and not an expansion in education opportunities in Australia at all levels. The Minister for Education has repeated in this chamber and outside the claim that education expenditure is to be increased. Education expenditure is not to be increased; it is to be reduced. 
In support of this I shall quote not only my own views or the views of the many teachers and parents and university administrators who have come to me and to other members of the Opposition with complaints about the Budget but I shall look also at the reports of 4 commissions of enquiry. But before I do that I should like to remind the Senate of the promise made by the Government first of all in the mini-budget speech made by the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  on 20 May and again later in the recent Budget that there would be increases in real terms in the Commonwealth's allocation in each of the 4 areas in 1977 compared with the approved programs for 1976. The increases were specified as 2 per cent for universities plus an additional $2m for capital expenditure, 5 per cent for colleges of advanced education, 7.5 per cent for technical and further education and 2 per cent for schools. Not one of the four education commission reports which have been brought down recently- the reports of the Schools Commission, the Technical and Further Education Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education and the Universities Commission- sustain the Treasurer's claim that there will be real growth in education. All of the commission reports have been critical of the Budget. All of the commission reports have been critical of this Government's approach to the administration and the funding of education. They have been particularly critical of the imposition of guidelines. I think that my colleague,  Senator Colston,  spoke about that at some length last night. 
For example, the Schools Commission points out that by imposing guidelines upon it as to what could be spent in the area of education the Government in fact was imposing on the Schools Commission a function which was not contained in its legislation. That legislation required it to advise in a objective way on the needs of education throughout Australia. Then the Government turns around and says: 'Well, you are to do that but then you are also to advise the priorities within our guidelines'. This is an additional function and some might say that it conflicts with the function that the legislation commits the Schools Commission to perform. All of the commissions have expressed serious reservations about the usefulness for planning purposes of this new concept of the rolling triennium. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has repeatedly pointed out in this chamber that the Labor Government interrupted the process of triennial funding. Of course it was. I do not deny that; nobody on this side of the chamber does. 
We do not wish to. But what was made clear at the time was that there was to be a one-year suspension of triennial funding, not that there was to be a permanent cessation of triennial funding and the introduction of a much less satisfactory system of planning. All of the education commission reports acknowledge that the cessation in triennial funding for the period of 1976 was temporary and they rightfully assumed that had the Labor Government remained in office triennial funding would have been reinstated. Rolling triennial funding is of no assistance in terms of long term planning because the commissions are told what they have for one year and what they might have for a second and third year of a triennium; but for the second and third year they can make no firm plans because those second and third year figures are speculative and can be changed at any time by the Government. The concept of rolling triennial funding is a hoax. If honourable senators look at the comments of those people who have to try to administer education programs under these rolling triennial funding programs they will see that these people express these views much more strongly and perhaps much more expertly than I am in a position to do tonight. 
All of the education commissions have condemned the failure of the Government to continue the Labor Government's policy of automatic indexation of education costs. This Government's budget philosophy, which has been expounded again and again, is that inflation must be reduced. This and the reduction of the deficit are the preoccupations of the Government. It says that inflation must be reduced. It does not matter how many worthwhile social reform programs are to be abolished, held up or confused. Indeed, no worthwhile programs have escaped the interference of this Government. The Government considers that none of these programs matter if the objective of reducing inflation is achieved. But when we look at the real strategies for assisting bodies such as the educational institutions to cope with inflation, what do we find? The Government has failed to continue automatic indexation, thus leaving these educational institutions in a position where they will be the victim of inflationary spirals, where they will not be able to plan and where they will have their so-called increases eaten up by the inflationary process because of the lack of indexation. 
I shall turn first to the Schools Commission. I think it is a priority because, after all, schools are an institution through which all Australians pass. Schools are an institution which determine to a very large extent the future of the children who pass through them. The Schools Commission was set up with a very specific charter. Its main objective and the main objective of the Labor Government in setting it up was to work out a strategy whereby equality of opportunity in education for all Australian children could be achieved and could be achieved within a specific period. The Labor Government did not go in for rhetoric that sounded good but had no actual program to back it up as the present Government does. The Labor Government said that within a certain period it wanted to see equality of opportunity in our schools. The Schools Commission drew up such a strategy which was one of resource allocation. I should like to read to honourable senators the objectives of the Schools Commission with regard to achieving within a certain time limit equality of opportunity in schools, that is, the provision of equal resources in every school in Australia. 
The interim committee set target standards for the improvement of the current resource levels in government schools and lower resource nongovernment schools at 40 per cent above the government levels in 1972 for primary schools and 35 per cent above those for secondary schools. The Commission reaffirmed these targets in its 1976-78 report but postponed the date of achievement from 1979 to 1980 for primary schools and to 1982 for secondary schools. I think it is fairly easy to envisage the very unequal state that our schools were in in 1972 when we consider that the Commission had to set a target of increasing the resources of the lower resource non-government primary schools by 40 per cent and of secondary schools by 35 per cent in that period. That was the degree to which those schools were below what the Commission regarded as acceptable standards. The Commission, through its federal programs, was working towards those objectives, but now, as a result of the change of education policy- the change of objective in education funding- of the present Government not enough funds are being provided to achieve that objective of equality of opportunity. Again the Schools Commision does not hesitate to point out this fact. The following is stated in the early part of its report: 
While it is clear from the early part of the guidelines-- 
That is the guidelines imposed on the commission by the Government - and from the finance provided that it is not expected that it will be possible to do more than maintain existing standards in government and non-government schools during the 1977-79 triennium, other parts of the guidelines direct the Commission's attention to needs which could only be met if there were considerable additional finance. The 2 per cent real growth in funds for 1 977 must be seen in relation to the fact that enrolments in the States are estimated to grow by 1.11 per cent. It is important to realise that the guidelines cannot be met in full; the objectives of maintaining existing standards while also undertaking other initiatives, though modest and directed towards immediate needs, are too ambitious within the funds allocated. 
Those are the words of the Schools Commission, the body which was set up to advise the Government on needs in education. The funds are inadequate to meet the special needs of the present, and they are inadequate even to maintain present standards which are still far from satisfactory. Where does that leave the special programs of the Schools Commission such as the programs for isolated children, for Aboriginal children, for migrant children and for disadvantaged girls in the schools system? The funding for those programs will be vastly inadequate. 
The failure to maintain growth in schools is not an abstract thing; it will have very real outcomes in terms of maintaining gross inequalities within our society. I ask the Senate to consider for a moment the problem about which we have been hearing a great deal lately. I refer to unemployment amongst youth. What sorts of schools do honourable senators think the bulk of the unemployed youths come from? Do honourable senators think they come from our greater public schools? Do they think they come from our wellfunded and well-resourced Government schools? I think we will find that they do not. I think we will find that the teenagers who are experiencing such extreme difficulty at the moment in getting employment are the products of inferior schools. I refer to those schools that are inferior because 23 years of Liberal-Country Party coalition government in this country failed to provide those schools and their students with anything like equal opportunity. When an economic crisis occurs with a situation of high unemployment, it is those lowest down the education and skill ladder who miss out. I think that this is a particularly pertinent reason why the failure of this Government to provide for the continuation of the Schools Commission program is so scandalous. 
The resource targets- that is, the targets of equality- cannot be achieved while the Government refuses to provide the money. What will this mean in terms of actual schools? The wealthy private schools will have other resources to call on. They will have affluent parents to call on. Similarly, the well-off State schools in affluent areas will have other resources. They do not need to rely completely on Government funding. So those schools will be able to maintain high standards of education and the children attending those schools will continue to gain sound education which will qualify them for higher education or trade education and so on. But what will happen in the poorer schools which are the schools with which we on this side of the chamber are most concerned? Those schools will have no outside resources to call upon. If the Government does not provide the resources, money will just not be available. There are no affluent parents' and citizens' organisations to raise funds to equip libraries and other school needs. So, by the withdrawal of these funds or by cutting down the objectives of the Schools Commission program, the Government demonstrates that it is prepared to allow educational inequalities to persist. We are seeing as well a government which is allowing inequality in work opportunities to persist. 
Another great disappointment in the Budget concerns the pre-school and child care area. Despite the fact that  Senator Guilfoyle,  who is the Minister in charge of child care matters, has repeatedly assured this chamber that her Government will turn its attention to the needs of very young children and that there would be an allocation on the basis of need, what do we find? In the Budget a mere $73. 3m is allocated for this financial year. This might not be so bad; it is only slightly less than the $74m allocated in the Hayden Budget last year. But we are told also in the Budget papers that $54.3m of that $73.3m could take the form of payments to the States. In other words, there is no assurance that that $73.3m which is allocated will go specifically for child care programs for those most in need. If the Government leaves this matter to the States, we know that the States will have a number of alternatives of which just one will be to provide child care programs. I am most sceptical that the States with Liberal Governments will use their grants in this way. 
The 1977-79 report by the Commission on Advanced Education is similarly critical of what the Government has done in regard to education funding. It has a specific complaint in respect of the guidelines imposed on it. These demonstrate that the Government was unaware of needs in this area before it imposed the guidelines. Paragraph 1.9 of the report states: 
The present guidelines were framed within the Government's policy of restraint in public expenditure. However, it is our view that Governments should be fully and publicly informed of needs before such decisions are taken. This Commission has been charged with the responsibility of providing advice on the needs of advanced education. The Commission can best give advice if it is able to give proper consideration to detailed submissions put to it. In 1976 we were unable to follow this procedure. 
Again, Government interference in the work of the Commission has meant that inadequate advice has come forward. The guidelines are unrealistic. I quote from paragraph 4.3 of its report: 
The Government's guidelines indicated that, within the funds available for 1977, there should be an increase in new enrolments in colleges of advanced education of 10 per cent between 1976 and 1977. 
The Commission stated in this respect in paragraph 4.1: 
. the Commission gave consideration to the level of growth in advanced education which the Government's guidelines would permit. Its assessment was that for 1977 a growth of about S per cent in total enrolments could be accommodated within the funds provided. 
We see again this technique of the Government imposing guidelines and saying that it wants a certain level of enrolments and of growth maintained but not providing the money for the level of growth and enrolments to be possible. As this report indicates the Government's guidelines suggested that an increase in new enrolments of 10 per cent be maintained but the Government provided money appropriate to permit a growth of only 5 per cent. This is not the only area of concern. The report of the Commission on Advanced Education states that because of financial restriction other matters will have to be neglected. For example, it will not be possible to build any new residences for students. Those honourable senators who have rural colleges of advanced education in their States will be aware of the absolute necessity of residential accommodation at such colleges. Many students simply cannot attend such colleges if residential accommodation is not available. But as a result of this Budget no new residential accommodation will be built. 
Similarly, there will be no research and investigation into colleges of advanced education. No Budgetary allocation is provided for this purpose. I would suggest that this, too, is a very serious matter. After all, colleges of advanced education are relatively new institutions. It is most important for new institutions to be monitored and for their effectiveness to be researched so that we can ensure that they are fulfilling the functions which they were set up to perform. But no money is provided for research into the effectiveness of colleges of advanced education. 
I turn to the report for the 1977-79 triennium by the Universities Commission. We find again cause for serious reservations about the Minister's claim that there is a 2 per cent real growth permitted in education. I quote from paragraph 1.14 of that report: 
When these factors have been taken into account the funds available for 1977 allow the Commission to recommend general recurrent grants to universities only at the same level as for 1976. Nor is it possible to restore the equipment grants in 1977 to the 1973-75 standard. Moreover, the requirement to maintain intakes at the 1976 level will result in an increase in total enrolments in 1977 of 2 per cent. In 1978 and 1979 the guaranteed minimum rate of growth of 2 per cent per annum in real terms will permit small increases in general recurrent grants for all universities and the restoration of equipment grants to the 1973-75 standard. However, these increases will not be sufficient to restore real resources per student to the 1 975 level. 
Honourable senators, I have quoted that extract particularly because yesterday in the Senate in answer to a question from  Senator Knight  the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  insisted that a report in the  Canberra Times  regarding the plight of the Australian National University was wrong. The Minister suggested that there was no contraction of staff or of educational opportunities at the ANU. He said that there were no cutbacks. Having sought reliable reports of what the Vice-Chancellor actually said, I have found that the Vice-Chancellor said that there had been no retrenchments yet in the University. That does not mean that people have not been put off, people who were temporary employees, people who have worked out contracts and so on. Those people have been put off. As yet there have been no retrenchments of permanent staff. But the Vice-Chancellor was unable to guarantee members of the staff that there would be no retrenchments in future years. 
I think that the response of the Minister yesterday to  Senator Knight's  question was quite deceptive in that it suggested that there was no possibility of retrenchments at the Australian National University whereas the ViceChancellor has stated publicly that there is no guarantee that there will not be retrenchments. As well as that, there are, for example, 9 chairs vacant in the Institute of Advanced Studies at the ANU and only five of these will be filled. On current allocations the 2 per cent real growth that is talked about for universities in fact will go mostly to new universities. What will happen in the case of established universities such as the ANU is that they will get the same in 1977 as they did in 1976 but because of the incremental creep- the incremental structure of staff salary increasesthe staff bill must go up, so if the money is to be the same the staff must be decreased in some way. The projections for 1977 to 1979 will involve retrenchments if the minima of growth, the second and third years of the rolling triennium, are adhered to and not increased. 
I really am at a loss to know why the Minister insists that there is to be no contraction of employment opportunities in the universities when the evidence is so clearly to the contrary. There may even be sound arguments for a contraction of employment opportunities, for a contraction of money available for buildings and equipment at universities but it is not for me to make out such a case. There may be such a case to be made but the Minister has not made it. The Minister insists there will be no contraction in the funding available, in the employment opportunities and in the educational opportunities; yet all the data in the Universities Commission's report suggests something quite different. 
I now would like to turn the attention of the Senate to what I think is the most significant of the 4 Education Commission reports published recently, the report on technical and further education. We in this chamber have all agreed that the area of technical education in the past has been the most neglected area of education. The Labor Government did a great deal about it. The Kangan report of 1974 was the first comprehensive report of the needs of technical education. A subsequent report in 1975 recommended a number of programs which would have improved this area. I suggest to the Senate that if this Government were really serious in its efforts to combat unemployment, if it were really serious about having a long term work force policy, if it were really serious about giving to the community the skills that members of the community need to be able to maintain employment under difficult circumstances, we would find evidence of this serious intent in the allocation to technical and further education. But what do we find? We find quite the contrary. I notice that I am running out of time so I will have to speak very quickly. A reading of the technical and further education reports shows that not only will there be no increase, that the 7.5 per cent increase promised earlier by the Minister does not exist, but there will be a deterioration of education available in the technical area under the present Budget. The current allocations do not even allow for the maintenance of standards existing in 1974 before the Commonwealth program began. I ask honourable senators opposite who are sceptical about what I am saying to read this report and to take very seriously the evidence put forward that there is something like a $78m shortfall in the Budget allowed for technical and further education if the target of only maintaining the standards of 1974 is to be achieved in 1979. 
I would like to mention briefly the question of tertiary allowances. Honourable senators may wonder why I bring up this matter as it gets no mention in the Budget- that is, there is no specific allocation at this stage. We are told, as we are told about so many other programs, that the question of tertiary allowances is under review. I ask members of the Government, particularly  Senator Carrick,  why the question of tertiary allowances is under review. There already have been several comprehensive reviews of the situation of students existing on allowances. There was the Williams Committee report last year and the Australian Union of 
Students has prepared a report on the needs of tertiary students. Members of this Parliament have been lobbied by students several times during the first session of Parliament about the desperate situation of students trying to exist on tertiary allowances; yet we are told that the matter is under review. 
There could be 2 reasons why it is under review. Either there is to be no increase and the students will be left in the plight they are in and the Government does not want to admit that at this stage, or there will be an increase but the Government, with its preoccupation about reducing the deficit, does not want that increase to appear in the Budget Papers at this stage. This matter of tertiary allowances is extremely serious because the situation at the moment is that only students whose studies can be supplemented by affluent parents are in a position to continue their studies. Those students who have to try to exist entirely on their tertiary allowances are finding that they are unable to do it. They are having to pull out of their university courses and go on the dole. 
Where is the logic in this from a government that talks so much about independence, about acquiring skills and about not being dependent on the State? We are moving to a situation which we knew very well in this country until the advent of the Labor Government, the situation where tertiary education is the prerogative of the elite. I suggest to the Senate in my concluding remarks that that is an extremely unhealthy position to be in. In this time of serious unemployment the Government could have taken a very constructive attitude to the whole question of training in education. It could have looked at the work force situation. It could have taken a long term view of our work force needs for the future. It could have assisted unemployed persons and school leavers to become trained and qualified in areas for which employment would be assured in the future. That would have been the constructive and sensible way of coping with both the unemployment situation and the very irregular and uneven work force skill situation we are faced with at the moment. 
Did the Government do this? No. Because of its preoccupation, the ideological bias it has against public sector spending, it has reduced education funding to a point where those responsible for the administration of education programs are in total confusion. The beneficiaries of education programs, the students, are unable to plan for their future because they do not know whether places will be available and they do not know whether they will be able to afford to study. We will end up with a large pool of unskilled, unemployed and virtually unemployable people who, I imagine, the Government expects will provide a tame and easily exploitable work force for the business sector. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, relates to the new Medibank arrangements. Is it the case that after December- that is, after the 2 months moratorium period- if a person wishes to transfer from one fund to another that person must pay twice over a 2-month period to ensure cover, for example, continue to pay the Medibank levy plus the new contribution for the 2 months? Is this provision a deliberate mechanism to deter people from changing funds? Will it have the effect of locking contributors into one fund, even though funds will be able to increase contributions at will and a contributor may find it desirable to change to a cheaper fund? Does the Minister agree that this provision regarding transfer is yet another restriction on freedom of choice by contributors? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations investigate why there are employees of the Commonwealth Public Service, such as tea ladies, with up to 15 years or more continuous service, some working up to 7 hours daily and others working broken shifts up to 6 hours daily, who are not entitled to long service leave? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Education, refers to a report by the Australian Capital Territory Teachers' Federation in the  Canberra Times  on 25 August 1976 and to a letter from  Mr J.  Fleming, Principal of the Canberra Technical College, to the Department of Education on 10 August wherein it is claimed that the new staff ceiling restrictions will lead to a reduction from 167 teachers in 1976 to 126 teachers in 1977, and that this will result in cancellation of some existing classes and services and postponement of services and several new courses planned for 1977. How can the Minister reconcile these claims with his own claim, made often in this chamber, that there are to be no cuts in technical and further education funds for 1977? 
I support the motion moved by my colleague  Senator Button: 
That in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: 
The failure of the Government to ensure the independence, integrity and high repute of Australia's national broadcasting service. 
The Government's failure to ensure the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is more than just a matter of omission. The Government has committed a number of acts which have led to the situation which we have today.  Senator Carrick,  in his reply to  Senator Button,  in a series of verbal and rhetorical flourishes, claimed that there was nothing wrong. What is wrong, he asked, that we should want a debate on this subject.  Senator Martin  inflicted a moralistic homily on the Senate to the effect that there was no case and that we were wrong even to bring the matter before the attention of the Senate. I put to the Senate that there is a case for an urgency motion on this most serious topic. The case is this: The ABC, an institution which has served Australia well since 1932, is today in a state df confusion and low morale and apparently is subject to manipulation by an intolerant minority group and to general ridicule throughout the media and the community. 
The first thing that the Government did in respect of the ABC was to reduce its budget by 15 per cent, from $137m in 1975 to $133m in 1976. The justification for this reduction is one with which we on this side of the chamber are very familiar, that all public sector spending had been increased in an extravagant way by the Labor Government and all public sector funding had to be reduced. I think  Senator Baume  said that we could not expect the ABC, being a public institution, to be excused from this general reduction. The initial position of the Government was that there was an inefficiency and a wastage of funds by the ABC; therefore its budget had to be reduced and it had to become more efficient. What did we find? We found very rapidly a move from this general and rather tedious argument about extravagance and inefficiency in public expenditure to a quite different and alarming position- a position in which the credibility of the Commission as a corporate decision making body is in tatters and in which one person is dictating matters of taste and morals to the entire viewing public. 
Worst of all, it has moved to a position in which we have, I think for the first time, in the ABC acts of political censorship. News broadcasts have been censored. Planned programs on the alleged massacres in Vietnam have been censored. They have been censored, not by the Commission as a corporate body but by one person, the  Chairman.  I point out at this stage that the kind of censorship of which I am now complaining is not the kind of censorship about which  Senator Carrick  chose to talk. It is not the same kind of censorship that is carried out each day by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, as he put it. The kind of control of standards carried out by the Broadcasting Control Board is certainly something that I would not oppose. 
I make it quite clear to the Senate that I certainly do not adopt a general anu-censorship position. I am not a small '1' liberal; I do not think that everything goes. I support censorship and control of things like violence in children's programs, exploitation of women as sex objects in advertising and other programs, and the general exploitation of consumers and of children as consumers that we see through advertising and other commercial programs. I do not oppose that kind of censorship and I do not take issue with the fact that the Broadcasting Control Board attempts to adhere to standards pertaining to such matters. But I do take exception to political censorship and I think that it was a very slippery attempt by  Senator Carrick  to try to suggest that the two are the same when they are distinctly different. 
The second act committed by the Government in respect of the ABC was the partisan appointment of  Sir Henry  Bland as  Chairman.  We have heard a lot of moralistic rhetoric tonight from most honourable senators on the Government side, including  Senator Baume  who has just resumed his seat, that we are indulging in a character assassination of  Sir Henry  Bland. That is quite irrelevant. What we are saying is that the appointment of  Sir Henry  Bland in the first place was a partisan appointment, an appointment which should never have been made, and- to use the word which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is so fond of using- an 'inappropriate' appointment. To demonstrate that  Sir Henry  Bland was indeed a partisan and inappropriate appointment one needs only to look at the sort of things he has done since he has been  Chairman,  at the sorts of powers he has improperly assumed to himself. 
First of all he has assumed to himself the power of ministerial veto. Already in this debate tonight we have had quoted section 77 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1973 which gives to the Minister, and to the Minister alone, the power to veto, to withdraw a program. Yet we find that  Sir Henry  Bland has unilaterally done this. Secondly, he has undermined the Commission as a corporate decision-making body by expressing views publicly in conflict with the views which the Commission as a corporate decision-making body has expressed. I cite as an example the view put by  Sir Henry  Bland in his first Press conference when he said that he thought that advertising on the ABC might be acceptable. He said that after the ABC had made its submission to the Greene inquiry into the media, in which submission it had specifically rejected the idea of advertising for the ABC. That is just one example of the way in which  Sir Henry  Bland has publicly differed from the Commission as a corporate body. 
The third thing which he has done is to take unto himself the role and duty of the management of the ABC. The example here is the matter of the censorship of certain news items to which I have already referred. I consider, and I think that most people who are familiar with the workings of the ABC would consider, that the matter of editing news items is a matter for management, not a matter for one member of the Commission who happens to be the  Chairman.  Today I heard of yet another role which he is assuming unto himself. He is usurping the role of the professional staff in their judgments about programming. I heard today of a memo sent around to the staff at the ABC to the effect that federal council representatives of the staff may come to Thursday's meeting of the Commission only if they accept the position that the Commission has the sole right of decision-making with regard to the content and showing of programs. Up until now it has been the professionals in the ABC who have taken decisions with regard to content and programming. Of course, these things are later approved by the Commission and, as I said, the ultimate power of veto is vested in the Minister. But now it appears that the professionals are to be ignored and that the  Chairman  is to decide on professional matters such as content and programming. 
So from the Government's original position of just cutting down on the ABC's budget in order to save money, we have moved to a stage where we have one person assuming the role of Minister, of the corporate Commission, of management and of the professional staff. Why has the situation arisen? I suggest that it is a part of the attempt by the Government to control the media in this country. When viewed in the light of the way in which the Greene inquiry- the secret inquiry into the media- has been conducted the effect is very sinister indeed. 
I would like to proceed to my main criticism, which is a criticism of the Government for making this partisan appointment. I think that the Government, in not finding itself able to make an apolitical appointment in the tradition of appointments of chairmen of the ABC, has demonstrated its paranoia about public institutions, and about the media in general. We have already had reference tonight to  Senator Withers'  comments earlier in the chamber about having to clean up the ABC because it was full of left-wing propagandists and so on. I suggest to the Senate that the coalition which now forms the Government is so used to being able to control the media and most of the Press in this country that it has reached the stage where it cannot tolerate any criticism, where it is hypersensitive even to genuine questions by interviewers genuinely trying to find out information of interest to the public, and now it wants to control the one organ of the media which is still capable of providing something like objective political commentary. 
A member of the Government,  Mr Nixon,  actually expressed the desire for censorship of the ABC during the 1975 campaign when he called for the appointment of a censor to monitor the public affairs broadcasts of the ABC. 1 suggest to the Senate that the Government now has such a censor in the person of the  Chairman.  The coalition has its censor but the public has an ABC  Chairman  who has eroded the independence, credibility and usefulness of the ABC. I do not have time to quote them but there are numerous editorials which support this point of view. I quote just one from the  Australian  because by no stretch of the imagination could anyone regard the  Australian  as anything other than a proGovernment newspaper. In its editorial of 7 September it said: 
Whatever  Sir Henry  Bland has done to the future of the series  Alvin Purple,  he has fatally damaged most people's assessment of his own sagacity. It would be difficult to imagine a much more foolish exhibition than that which  Sir Henry  has given, in his very first major decision as ABC  chairman,  over a late night serial which is as little offensive as it is amusing. The worst aspen of it all is that  Sir Henry,  whose personal involvement in the on-off farce is plain and whose overall responsibility is undeniable, should have made such a spectacle of himself over something so mediocre. 
What people generally mean by the independence of the ABC is some sort of objectivity which is not dependent on having political neuters as journalists or makers of programs but which is dependent on having a broad spectrum of views presented. I suggest to the Senate that the ABC does just that. It has mainstream programs, it has right-wing programs, it has programs like  Late Line  which put the radical perspective, lt is in that broad spectrum that the objectivity of the ABC resides, and not in having every news item censored according to the predilections of the present Government. 
In support of my claim that the ABC does do just that- does give fair and broad coverage- I quote a survey from the  Sydney Morning Herald,  which again is not noted for its pro-Labor views. I do not have time to quote the article in detail but it appeared on 24 April this year. The summary shows that 67 per cent of the community think that the political news and commentary on the ABC can be trusted; 66 per cent think that it is usually accurate. Honourable senators opposite might be interested to hear that Liberal voters were generally happier with the ABC's television coverage than Labor voters. It is only the ABC in our community that can perform this role. The public does not demand it of commercial broadcasting; it does not expect it of commercial broadcasting. The ABC is performing, or has performed its role, until these very serious interferences by the  Chairman  and by the Government in the appointment of such a  chairman. 
In conclusion I would like to quote from a report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts in 1973 when the matter of public broadcasting was very thoroughly investigated. The report said: 
To summarise: There is clearly a great amount of dissatisfaction with present broadcasting - 
That was in 1973-  and there are sectors of the community which are not well served by the present system. There is evidence that audiences are fragmenting rather than tending towards a uniform mass; there is, we suspect, a greater diversity of values in the community now than in past years. As education and exposure to other media foster diversity, the range is likely to become wider. 
The report concludes: 
We must avoid giving the public what someone, whether commercial mogul or government bureaucrat, thinks is good for it. Reflecting the range of interests in the community, at the highest quality level, is subtly different from telling people what they should look at or listen to. 
I suggest to the Senate that that subtle difference has escaped the Government in its appointment of  Sir Henry  Bland. That subtle difference still escapes  Sir Henry  Bland as is shown by the way in which he manages his chairmanship responsibilities. I suggest finally to the Senate that the difference is really not so subtle. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, refers to a situation which has arisen in the Australian Capital Territory this week as a result of the Government's new policy of bus passes for school children. Several small children already have been left stranded at bus stops because they did not have bus passes. One particularly distressing case has been brought to my attention: A 5-year-old girl was put off a bus because she did not have a bus pass. She was approached by a passing stranger who attempted to force her into a car. She was rescued from that situation by another passing motorist. So she came to no harm. However, in the light of this situation, will the Minister undertake to review the new system of bus passes which already has caused distress and potential danger to A.C.T. school children? In the meantime will the Minister give bus drivers a clear and direct policy instruction that they are not to leave children without passes stranded at bus stops? Will the Minister confirm publicly that financial assistance is available from the Welfare Branch of the Department to parents who are unable to afford the $10 a child bus pass fee? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. It refers to a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  yesterday- that is, Monday, 20 September 1976- that the Minister had informed the Liberal Party conference during the weekend that there would be no increase in tertiary allowances until the beginning of 1 977 and that there would be no retrospectivity. In view of the great interest in this matter by the thousands of students experiencing hardship under the present tertiary education allowance scheme levels, can the Minister confirm yesterday's report? Is the Minister prepared to expand at all on the information as reported? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total amount allocated to the Australian Capital Territory Legal Aid Committee during the 1975-76 financial year. 
) What was the means test on legal aid during 1 975-76. 
Were there any changes during the year. 
What is the anticipated expenditure for 1975-76. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services, refers to an article which appeared yesterday in the Melbourne  Age  and relates to Commonwealth Police staffing problems. I shall read the relevant sections of the article: 
Commonwealth Police say they are too short staffed to fight crime effectively. The force's assistant commissioner (crime intelligence),  Mr L.  S. Harper, said yesterday there had been a 'substantial increase' recently in crimes such as fraud, forgery and theft. 

 Mr Harper said Commonwealth Police needed an extra 80 detectives for crime investigation and security work. 
I ask the Minister: Has this shortage of Commonwealth Police, which is so detrimental to the safety and well-being of Australian citizens, been brought about by the decision to provide an extensive personal Commonwealth Police guard for the present Governor-General to protect him against the continuous and widespread expressions of public disapproval of his actions last November and subsequently? 
I listened with interest to  Senator Bonner  who spoke at great length on two premises, one that nothing is free and the other that Australians value freedom of choice. 1 can only agree with  Senator Bonner  that nothing is free. One of the worst aspects of the new Medibank arrangements is that the Government is attempting to convince the public that somehow public monies are being saved whereas in fact this is not the case. The overall effect of the new Medibank arrangements is that everybody will pay more for health insurance than he paid in the past-by way of the Medibank levy, by way of premium or by way of private insurance. It is true that free health cover is not being provided under these new arrangements. Indeed there is a restriction of choice compared with what was provided before. As the subject of choice has been aired at such length in this debate I should point out that there is absolutely no choice available now to the Australian citizen with respect to whether or not health insurance will be taken out. 
At this stage Australians must have health insurance of some kind. If the honourable senator would listen to what I am saying he could not possibly disagree,  Mr President.  At this stage we have legislation which will lock Australian citizens into one or other health insurance scheme. Certainly there is a kind of choice, and a very tenuous kind of choice it is. 
There is some kind of choice offered between different types of health insurance but there is no choice to have no health insurance at all. I find it quite ironic that it is from the Government that speaks so much about freedom of choice and the rights of the individual that we have this system which locks people into one or other health insurance system. 
It was put to me quite forcibly by a constituent of mine that she had a much greater choice under the Labor scheme and even a greater choice in the sense that the Liberal Party uses the concept in the pre-Labor scheme under which a person could have no health insurance cover at all. Under that scheme a person could open a savings bank account and draw interest on the money in that account. A person would not need to withdraw money from that account if he or she did not become ill. This was a kind of choice that was valued by some people. 
As my colleague  Senator Mulvihill  points out, that choice no longer exists. No longer can the individual save privately in order to pay for medical expenses. Now every individual must be in one or other health insurance scheme. 
I would also like to point out while I am talking about choice that freedom of choice was not the top priority of the Labor Government when it set up its Medibank scheme. The top priority of the Labor Government in establishing its Medibank scheme was to ensure that every Australian had adequate health insurance and that that health insurance was paid for by the most equitable means. As it turned out it was paid for out of general revenue which I consider to be the most equitable means of sharing throughout the community the burden of the cost of the health insurance scheme. Freedom of choice was not our major priority. It has become the catch-cry of the present Government- the apparent priority of the present Government. However, it seems to me that the main effect of the new arrangement is to restrict the choice available to Australians with regard to health insurance, to increase the cost and, of course, to increase confusion generally. 
I would like to draw attention to other organisations which have complained bitterly that freedom of choice has been restricted by the new arrangements. I want to quote from a letter from the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations dated 3 June 1976. The letter, in part, states: 
After careful consideration by CAGEO's Federal Officers of your Health Minister's 20 May announcement and consequential and related Bills and other statements, we are impelled to the conclusion that if your Government proceeds with its proposals in their original form, Medibank health insurance will be less financially attractive to a large proportion of middle income earners and /or higher income earners. Within that context your Government's proposals do not allow for a genuine free choice to be made by at least half of the Australian community. 
The proposed imbalance in the cost of health insurance is recognised in the following statement contained in the pamphlet: 'Medibank and You- It's Your Choice' (May 1976 R75/1434), and I quote: 'However the cheapest way to obtain the same cover (medical plus intermediate hospital) will be to buy medical and hospital insurance from a private fund for about $350 a year'. 
So we have one of the major union bodies of this country representing many thousands- perhaps millions- of taxpayers complaining specifically that its members have been denied freedom of choice by the new Medibank arrangements of this Government. 
Another anomaly in the new system is the method by which spouses will pay the Medibank levy. There has been a great deal of discussion of this issue and I think some contradictory statements by various supporters of the Government. But it does appear that if a man chooses to pay the Medibank levy, the $300 family cover, his wife if working will have the $150 levy for a single person deducted from her - 
-No, it is $150 for a single person. She will have this amount deducted from her salary and will - 

 - Mr President, I am becoming a little tired of the interjections, particularly when they are so inaccurate in content. I realise that the hour is late but I think the community has some interest in this issue because it will affect the income, the real take home pay, of every wage earner in the land and will impose a considerable burden on many families in respect of the choice they will have to make. Therefore,  Mr President,  I would thank you if some of these inaccurate and distracting interjections could be stopped. 
I was drawing the attention of the chamber to the anomaly which now exists in that it would appear that the wife of a working couple will have to pay cover during the year and then claim that as a refund of tax at the end of the year. In effect this will be a free loan to general revenue and one, I think, that is quite unacceptable. There is also a general point to be made about the deflationary effects of the new arrangement. Honourable senators will be aware that already some unions and some employers are talking about the possibility of employers paying the Medibank levy for their employees. If this happensand I can understand why some employees would wish it to happen- the Government's position with regard to reducing inflation through the Medibank changes is undermined. 
I am just trying to indicate the implications of what will happen if employers in some cases decide to pay the levy. If some employers decide to pay the levy then, naturally, employees of other bodies will start to demand similar types of payments from their employers. 
This will have an effect - 
Thank you,  Mr President.  What will happen if some employers decide or are persuaded to pay the Medibank levy for their employees is that other employees will start to make similar demands and we will have, in effect, increased wage demands which this Government is so convinced are inflationary. Yet, that is a real likelihood in a situation where the effect of the levy is to reduce real wages. I draw the attention of the Senate to that fact. I am not expressing any opinion as to whether it should happen. If it does happen I think it will certainly undermine the argument of the 
Government that it is controlling inflation by changing the Medibank system. 
Another anomaly- and one which I think all honourable senators must admit exists- is that there must be greatly increased administrative costs in administering the range of choices now available within the Medibank system. I believe- the Minister representing the Minister for Health in this chamber  (Senator Guilfoyle)  may be able to confirm this-that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has already received one telegram from the Gippsland Medibank office saying that it is unable to cope, with its present staff levels, with the demand being made on its office because of the new arrangements. 1 expect that many other such urgent messages will reach the Minister within the next couple of months as the new system gets into operation. The question of administrative costs seems to me to be one of the more anomalous aspects of the whole matter. We had a system of medical cover- a system that the Labor Government set up- which was working efficiently. No serious complaints were made about the nature of the operations of Medibank. The actual costs of administering the program were kept quite low but, suddenly, for reasons of political ideology rather than reasons of efficiency, economy or community needs, we find that the system is fragmented with a range of unnecessary choices introduced by this Government. As a result the administrative burdens are greatly increased and administrative costs also must increase greatly. 
It has been suggested to me by several of my constituents that the single parent again is facing an unfair burden. The level of income at which the single parent- usually a single mother- will have to pay the levy is lower than the level of income at which a family with a dependent spouse will have to pay the levy, even though the single parent is likely to have a lower overall income and has a family to support, just as has the 2-parent family. 
I should like now to turn to the specific Bills that we are discussing. The Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 has the effect of setting up what the Government chooses to call Medibank Private. It is not a Bill that we are opposing in substance although my colleague,  Senator Grimes,  will be moving amendments during the Committee stage. We are not opposing the Bill in substance because we recognise that at this stage of the development of medical services in Australia there are people who feel more secure if they know they can opt for shared ward accommodation. This is particularly true in Victoria where the public hospital system is overburdened. There are people under the present medical system who feel more secure if they can have their own doctor attending them in public hospitals or in shared ward accommodation. We recognise that these feelings exist in the community. Therefore, we do not oppose in principle the establishment of what the Government calls the Medibank Private scheme. However, it is very important to make the point that the extra cover, for which contributors can insure for $135, is not being paid for entirely by those contributors. It is not an example of the user pays principle. It is being subsidised, to a large extent, by the general taxpayer- that is, by the general community- and by the contributors to the standard Medibank levy. 
It does appear, because the Minister promised earlier that there would be a ceiling of $135 on the intermediate of Medibank Private insurance, that in order to keep this commitment he has had to inject $ 12m into the system for the remainder of this financial year. Of course, that will be an expenditure of $15m for the whole year in order to maintain that figure of $135 for those who can afford to and who want to take out this extra cover. That is more money coming out of general revenue. That is more money which is taken from a progressive taxation system. It is more money for which the lower income earners are subsidising the middle income earners or the higher income earners- some of whom will choose to stay in Medibank and take out Medibank Private. 
The other point I wish to raise in connection with this Bill relates to the arguments we have heard from honourable senators opposite in this debate that they are setting up some sort of free enterprise system and that in relation to private health insurance there will be a free market system and costs will be settled. They think this is free competition. That is not in fact the case. Medibank Private is at a cost disadvantage compared to the private funds. It would appear that the Government has deliberately made this so. It has been pointed out by one of my colleagues in another place that, for example, in Queensland one private health fund is offering for $380 complete cover which is similar to what is being offered by Medibank plus Medibank Private. Yet, if a person wishes to remain in Medibank and take out Medibank Private it will cost $435. That is a significant gap between what the private funds are able to offer and what the Government, through this legislation, is permitting Medibank Private to offer. That, I think, is fairly interpreted as a discrimination against those who wish to stay in Medibank Private. It is an encouragement for people to go out and join the private funds which, of course, leaves the burden of maintaining standard medical costs on those who remain in standard Medibank. 
The second Bill with which we are dealing allows for a $50m Government subvention into a re-insurance pool - 
As my colleague,  Senator Brown,  has pointed out, it is a free subsidy to the private funds. Although a chronically ill person or a person who becomes chronically ill is free to insure with the private funds and is free to pay whatever contribution the private funds see fit to charge at this stage, those private funds with which the chronically ill person is insured will not in fact bear the cost of the long term medical expenses of the chronically ill person. After 35 days the chronically ill person will transfer to the special fund which will then meet the expenses of that person. In the meantime the chronically ill person continues to contribute to the private health fund which at that point does not have to continue to meet the expenses for which the person is insuring. So the long term expenses of the chronically ill person are being met again out of public revenue and not by the private funds who, nevertheless, are profiting from the contributions of that person. I think that that is quite a serious anomaly. 
The overall effect of the Government's amendments to the Medibank legislation is an undermining of Medibank to the point where it is fair and accurate to say that this Government has broken its election promise to maintain Medibank. I am aware that many of my colleagues who have spoken in this debate have made this point at great length and very convincingly. But it is fairly clear that at least 50 per cent of contributors will leave Medibank because they have been enticed out by the special rates being offered by private  funds. Indeed, some  private funds are going so far as to urge a boycott of Medibank. I quote an article from today's  Australian  which states: 
The head of Australia's private health funds has urged every doctor throughout the nation to persuade his patients to boycott Medibank Private. 
It seems to me that that is a very serious interference with what the present Government likes to call' freedom of choice'. 
-Indeed, that was  Mr W.  K. Moon,  President  of the Voluntary Health 
Insurance Association, which represents 57 private health funds.  Mr Moon  sent a letter to all doctors asking them to bring pressure to bear on their patients to opt out of Medibank entirely. It seems to me that that is a particularly shameful kind of behaviour on behalf of the private funds. Everybody knows that Australians over insure for medical insurance. Everybody knows that sick people or people who fear that they may become sick are susceptible to influence by their doctors. Everybody knows that if an aged or chronically ill person has been attending one doctor and having satisfactory medical care from that doctor over a number of years that person is very loath to change that doctor. Therefore if that doctor says to the patient: 'I want you to get out of Medibank', or brings some persuasion to bear on the patient for that patient to get out of Medibank the patient is very likely, in the patient's susceptible state, to respond to that pressure and to join a private fund. 
It is indeed a reprehensible action. I do not think that the Government at this stage has had an opportunity to comment on it. But I would hope that the Government would be severely critical of this kind  of  blackmail of sick people and that it would in fact interfere with this kind of blackmail, because blackmail it is. If this kind of unfair persuasion and pressure is successful and if in the short term the ability of the private funds to undercut Medibank Private is successful Medibank will be denuded of contributions because at least 50 per cent of the contributors will leave. But that does not mean that the private funds will bear the entire costs of the medical services available to people in private health funds. 
I think it has been said before in discussing this issue that if people are taken ill suddenly, in a car accident or something of that kind, they are rushed to a public hospital and treated by doctors on duty. At that stage they do not have the time, or indeed the desire, to get the doctor of their choice or anything of that kind. They make use of the public facilities. That is as it should be but in making use of the public facilities they are making use of facilities for which they are not paying one iota if they are entirely insured by private funds. I think that this is something of which the community must be aware. Even though supporters of the Government might like to talk about paying for what we use and might like to say that we cannot get anything free and make comments like that, by going entirely into a private fund a person certainly is not cutting himself off from access to the very expensive and excellent public health facilities which are available and which now will be paid for substantially from contributions to the standard Medibank fund. 
I should like to draw attention to the situation which exists in the Australian Capital Territory, where the Labor Medibank scheme had worked very successfully indeed. A number of health centres were established where salaried doctors were able to provide, not free services, I agree, but services for which no charge had to be made at the time. This was an extremely efficient procedure and it was extremely popular with the public and extremely welcome to low income earners or families with a lot of children who had difficulties making on the spot cash payments which many private doctors demand these days and which, no doubt, they will demand even more now that they know every person will be insured and will be able to obtain a refund. In the Australian Capital Territory we had the development of a new, progressive, up to date health system. People had the choice of their own practitioner, of fee for service doctors at the health centre, and of salaried doctors at health centres. They had a choice of a range of excellent salaried specialists at the Canberra community hospitals. This situation has been thrown into total confusion by the new arrangements. Some health centres will now have to start charging fees. There will have to be some way of establishing the fund to which a person belongs. This will require additional administrative staff, although that staff will not be provided because there are staff ceilings on all areas of public employment in the Australian Capital Territory. So what was developing into an extremely progressive, convenient, efficient and, above all, excellent kind of health service so far as the community was concerned, will now be undermined in a very serious way by the new arrangements. 
Another example of this is the operation of the family planning clinic. Under the Labor system, because everybody was covered by Medibank, family planning services were able to be offered free, that is, without direct charge to the person seeking those services. This was an extremely useful technique because a lot of people, particularly women, seeking family planning advice are without an income. A lot of them are young girls who are seeking family planning advice without the knowledge of their parents and the family planning service was able to offer proper services without demanding fees. The situation now for family planning services is that either they will have to require a cash payment, which many of the patients will not be able to provide, or they will need to know what sort of health insurance scheme the patient is insured with which will be a breach of confidentiality as far as some wives and daughters are concerned. That is another example in the Australian Capital Territory of the very disruptive effect on community based health services of the Government's Medibank changes. 
In conclusion, I should like to stress that the effect of these changes has been to create enormous confusion and anxiety in the community, which undoubtedly will lead to over insurance. The effect has been to increase the cost of health insurance and thus of health care for every Australian. There is no indication that the kind of medical services provided to the community will improve in any way as a result of the changes. 
I rise at this time to express my outrage and the outrage of my colleagues at the disgraceful abuse yesterday in this chamber of the machinery of question time to mount a shameful and totally unjustifiable attack on a person who is not only one of Australia's leading scholars but also the world authority on Australian history. I refer to Professor Manning Clark. For the sake of the record and the enlightment of those honourable senators who seem to be in a state of total ignorance about who Professor Manning Clark is, I should like to draw the attention of the Senate to some biographical facts relating to Professor Manning Clark. 
He was educated at Melbourne Grammar School, at Trinity College, at the University of Melbourne and at Balliol College, Oxford. He taught at Geelong Grammar School and was a lecturer in political science at the University of Melbourne, a lecturer in history at the University of Melbourne, and since 1 949 Professor of Australian History in the School of General Studies at the Australian National University. He is the author of a number of distinguished publications in the field of Australian history, including the series  Documents in Australian History  and the  History of Australia  in several volumes, both of which are basic reference works in that field. As well as this, he has been awarded other signs of distinction. He was awarded the Moomba Book Award in 1969, the Henry Lawson Arts Award in 1969 and the Australian Literary Society Gold Medal in 1970. 
Just yesterday there was a Press release to the effect that he had been invited by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to give the Boyer lecturesanother sign of academic distinction and distinction in the culture of this society. He is in very good company. Other Boyer lecturers have included Justice Roma Mitchell, Professor  Sir Keith  Hancock,  Dr H.  C. Coombs and  Sir Macfarlane  Burnett. As well as this, he was one of the first people to be awarded the Companion of the Order of Australia, in the company of Patrick White, Joan Sutherland and  Dr H.  C. Coombs. 
I am a post-graduate of the Australian National University and I can assure the Senate from my own experience that there is no member of the community of the Australian National University who has been held in higher esteem, for both his personal and his academic qualities, than Professor Manning Clark. He is held in high esteem equally by his students as by his academic peers. Yesterday's attack by  Senator Sim,  concealed in a series of impertinent questions to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  debased this Senate in a way that I as a newcomer to the Senate would not have believed possible until I heard it. In doing so  Senator Sim  revealed a total ignorance of the history of Australia and of the scholars of that history.  His  questions contained a number of grossly untruthful assertions and a number of particularly ugly inferences. 
Yes. He used a word like bigoted', which is surely the ultimate insult to a historian. He accused Professor Manning Clark of being a fascist. The word 'fascist', as some honourable senators may know, acquired its meaning from the historical events that took place in Italy in the 1930s and 1940s. There is no meaningful way in which the term 'fascist' could be applied to Professor Manning Clark, yet it was so applied yesterday by  Senator Sim  in his question to the Minister for Education.  Senator Sim  then proceeded with a series of questions which contained an assault on the integrity of Professor Manning Clark as a scholar and as a supervisor of students. He suggested by inference that Professor Manning Clark was not fit to be in a position where he made appointments to university staff or to supervise post-graduate theses because of his bigoted and, as  Senator Sim  said, fascist attitudes. 

 His final and most impertinent and insulting question contained the image of Professor Manning Clark marauding around the campus finding pencils to break and pieces of paper to tear up in order to prevent students from writing views other than his own. He concluded with some reference to something he called a 'leftist Gulag Archipelago'. Not only has  Senator Sim  debased the procedures of this Senate; he has also debased the English language in his evocation of such a phrase. He used an old and crude technique of stringing together a number of words with bad associations as though by stringing them together he was saying something. All he was doing was appealing to the most reactionary and prejudiced elements in this community by using that phrase 'leftist fascist Gulag Archipelago', to which presumably some persons were to be banned by Professor Manning Clark. There was a time when such crude and low attacks on intellectuals and academics by politicians were not so unusual. The McCarthy era in the United States of America in the 1950s springs to mind. Indeed, we had a parallel dark period in our own history at that time. I had thought that that period had gone and that we had grown out of the stage where politicians found it necessary to abuse intellectuals in those terms for daring to disagree with them; but  Senator Sim's  question yesterday was a reminder that the spirit of McCarthy lives on and that the low values of that time are not dead. 
Let me proceed now to the reply made to that question by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  I must say that I found the Minister's reply even more outrageous than the question. I found it entirely improper that a person who is  not only  a  Minister in this Government but also  the Minister for Education should treat such an improper question so improperly. Instead of dismissing the question as he should have, he proceeded to join in the attack on Professor Manning Clark.  Senator Carrick  is the Minister for Education and one would imagine that, as such, he would have some familiarity with the institutions of education and therefore he would not be entirely unfamiliar with the work of Professor Manning Clark and the status that he holds in the academic community in Australia. 
I was reminded, as the Minister spoke, that he attended the Australian National University quite recently in order to make the Address of Honour to  Sir John  Crawford who was being invested as Chancellor of that University and in order to confer degrees on graduates of that University. At that time, as I recall, the Minister spoke very highly of the Australian National University. At that time he did not give any indication that he considered that one of the foremost figures of the Australian National University, one of its greatest figures, was in fact a bigoted Communist propagandist. No, at that time he spoke as if the ANU were an institution worthy of admiration and worthy indeed of a great deal of Government support. 
Professor Manning Clark is only one man. He is one of the most distinguished persons at that University. There are a couple of others who compare with him in distinction. Professor Alec Hope, for example, is one. When the Minister proceeded to answer this highly insulting and improper question, what did we find? In his answer to the question, the Minister proceeded to give a highly distorted paraphrase of Professor Manning Clark's article. He proceeded to attribute to Professor Manning Clark views which Professor Manning Clark has never expressed. Altogether, he succeeded in creating an entirely incorrect and misleading impression of what Professor Manning Clark has said in the article to which reference was being made. 
I might add that, in doing so, the Minister displayed himself as a person with surprising ignorance of Australian history. The Minister for Education asserted: 
The aberration of history is the socialist Labor Party. 
The absurdity of such a statement is self-evident. Whatever one wants to say about the socialist Labor Party and its place in Australian history, one can hardly call that Party an aberration. However one wants to criticise the socialist Labor 
Party, one cannot but admit that it has been a constant feature of Australian political history. 
What else does the Minister accuse Professor Manning Clark of? We hnd that he accuses Professor Manning Clark of having appeared in public at a public forum with people whom the Minister characterises as communists and socialists. What sort of an accusation is that? How does that justify the abuse contained in the question and answer? I would be surprised if there were any member of the Government Parties who has not shared a platform at some time or other with a socialist or a communist. I myself have shared a platform with a member of the Liberal Party, and even with a member of the Workers Party; but I would be horrified if people were to assume from the fact that I shared a platform with a member of the Liberal Party that I shared the views of that member of the Liberal Party. 
I proceed now to the question which I think this chamber should consider: Why is it that 2 members of the Government Parties, one of them a Minister- indeed, the Minister for Educationshould stoop to this crude, low and unsubstantiated attack on a person who has such a central and creditable position in Australian history and Australian culture? The answer is quite clear to me. In stooping to this attack, the Government has demonstrated that it will not tolerate from anybody at all any divergence from the Government's interpretation of the events of last November. The question asked by  Senator Sim  and the reply given by the Minister for Education embody the very things of which they were so unjustly accusing Professor Manning Clark. They embody bigotry, prejudice and intolerance. 
I suggest to the Senate that Professor Manning Clark as an historian is entitled to his view and to his interpretation of the constitutional and historical significance of the events of last November. But, more than that, I suggest to the Senate that Professor Manning Clark is entitled to express his interpretation of the events of last November, to express them in a public forum and to express them in an article in an academic journal, without having such expression become the subject of abuse by members of Parliament who pervert the machinery of question time to abuse him for his exercise of his democratic right as a citizen and his exercise of his judgment as a scholar. 
I present the following petition from 35 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 

<graphic href="069232197610052_1_1.jpg"></graphic>

That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 85 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Their dissatisfaction with the decision to re-introduce bus fares for students travelling to school in the A.C.T. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Members of the Senate reconsider the decision with the hope that the decision will be reversed or at least modified. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present two petitions, from 82 and 257 citizens of Australia respectively, as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the recent budgetary allocations endanger the quality of Australian education, especially for disadvantaged groups and in particular for migrants, Aboriginals and tertiary students from poor backgrounds. 
Your petitioners believe that all persons admitted to institutions of tertiary education in Australia have a right to adequate living conditions and that it is the responsibility of Government to ensure that sufficient funds are allocated to protect that right. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the quality of education in schools and tertiary institutions be not eroded but extended through the provision of adequate funds. 
That in view of the substandard living conditions forced upon many tertiary students as a consequence of the totally inadequate student assistance scheme there is an urgent need for substantial increase and indexation of grants provided 

<graphic href="069232197610052_1_1.jpg"></graphic>

under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme to the level of a living wage, and further that the needs-based grants scheme be in no way jeopardised by any other programme of student assistance. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications confirm reports in today's Press that a  Mr K.  Mackriell of the Australian Broadcasting Commission has ordered a  Mr A.  Ashbolt to check in advance the text of this year's Boyer lectures to be delivered by Professor Manning Clark? If so, does the Minister agree that this is the first time a Boyer lecturer has been subjected to this kind of interference? Can the Minister inform the Senate who was responsible for this new decision regarding the Boyer lectures and by what procedures the decision was reached? Will he agree that following the biased and unjustified attack on Professor Manning Clark by himself and  Senator Sim  on 22 September in this chamber, this new decision regarding Professor Clark's Boyer lectures text is rightly interpreted as an act of political censorship? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Why has it been thought necessary to print the Prime Minister's and the Minister for Foreign Affairs' speeches and statements on foreign policy in publications from the Department of Foreign Affairs, and in the Commonwealth Record, and in the Ministerial Document Service? 
How much does this duplication cost in publishing and in postage? 
Can the Minister for Social Security clarify the present position of the Australian Capital Territory Consultative Committee, which was established under the former Children's Commission, whose functions have now been transferred to the Child Care Office in the Department of Social Security? Specifically, is the Consultative Committee, which is composed of departmental officers and voluntary members representing community groups, to continue to function both as a policy-making body and as a fund-allocating body? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it the case that after December 1976, if a person wishes to transfer from one medical and hospital fund to another fund, the person must pay twice over a two-month period to ensure cover, that is, continue to pay the medi levy plus the new contribution. 
Is this a deliberate mechanism to deter people from changing funds. If so, will it have the effect of locking contributors into one fund, even though funds will be able to increase contributions at will and a contributor may find it desirable to change to a cheaper fund. 
Does the Minister agree that this provision is a restriction on freedom of choice of the contributors. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the Minister's statement yesterday regarding the new tertiary allowance provisions in which he said: 
. the main thrust of such assistance should be towards the most needy. 
In view of that statement, can the Minister explain to the Senate and to the student community who are very interested in this matter why he has introduced a new category- 'dependent student away from home'- with a maximum allowance of $38, or $5 a week less than the new 'independent student' maximum allowance of $43, when the families of students qualifying for the maximum 'dependent away from home' allowance will already have been means tested quite rigidly? I refer to the low income families who are unlikely to be able to assist students in this category. Will the Minister agree that this new discrepancy between independent students and dependent students from poor families living away from home may force poorer students to delay their studies for 2 years while they acquire eligibility for the independent student's allowance, either by working full time for 2 years or- as is more likely in the present circumstancesby spending 2 years on the dole? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How much of the total allocation for the Australian Capital Territory Legal Aid Office for 1975-76 was allocated for staff salaries. 
How much was allocated for payment to the private legal profession. 
I ask the Minister for Education how he justifies to the Senate and to the people of the Australian Capital Territory the failure of the Government, after 10 months in office, to implement legislation establishing a permanent schools authority for the Australian Capital Territory. Does the Minister agree that the funding and administration of education in the Territory will continue to be inefficient and confusing until the long-promised legislation is introduced? Can the Minister assure the Senate that the Government's amendments to the draft legislation have not altered the present structure of the council of the Interim Authority- that is, that the community, parents and teachers are directly represented? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. What steps has the Government taken to implement the Racial Discrimination Act 1975? In particular, how many staff have been allocated to the Commissioner for Community Relations to investigate complaints of unlawful behaviour under the Act? How many such complaints have been investigated? Has the Government established the conciliation committees referred to in section 23 of the Act? If not, why not? Has the AttorneyGeneral appointed the members of the Community Relations Council, as provided for in section 4 1 of the Act? If not, why not? 
I seek leave to make a short statement following the statement made by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster). 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I wish to endorse the views put by the Minister for Science that the short term warnings provided by the Bureau of Meteorology from the afternoon of Friday, 1 5 October, and throughout the weekend were accurate and of great assistance to those responsible for making emergency arrangements over the weekend. I agree with the Minister that in the Australian Capital Territory as in Queanbeyan, both the police and the local emergency services deserve commendation. I checked with these services several times during the weekend, and at all times arrangements for emergency accommodation, volunteer assistance, food, clothing and so on were well under control. 
The people of the Australian Capital Territory responded in a very constructive and generous fashion to the crisis over the weekend. The Australian Capital Territory Police and the voluntary services organising relief assistance were inundated with offers of accommodation, clothing, food and money, so much so that a media announcement had to be made requesting people to cease making such offers because the agencies could no longer deal with them. I think that bears mention. The assistance organised by the Australian Capital Territory Police, Australian Capital Territory emergency services and other organisations such as the Salvation Army was such that more than 1000 people were evacuated in Canberra and rehoused by other members of the community. I understand that about 5000 people were evacuated in Queanbeyan, and that the Australian Capital Territory authorities were able to send hundreds of volunteers to assist in the operations there. 
I agree with the Minister that as far as what happened last weekend is concerned, people of the Australian Capital Territory and people of Queanbeyan may feel confident that the predictions by the Bureau of Meteorology and the organisation provided by the Police and the emergency services are adequate to deal with such a crisis. However there are some longer term measures on which the Government I hope will make some comments. I believe that the community needs assurance in 2 areas. The first is the question of longer term predictions of such floodings. We have now had 2 floodings in 2 years and there appears to be a change in the pattern of rainfall in this area. People who have houses in these areas would benefit from some sort of longer range predictions which would enable them to decide whether it is worth rebuilding and repairing houses that have been damaged or whether such floodings are to be very infrequent in the future. The other matter on which I think assurances are required concerns long term engineering plans for the catchment of waters in the area. There was some concern during the weekend when it was feared by some parties at least that the Googong Dam would not be adequate to control the flood waters and that there would be very serious flooding. 
Another matter on which the Minister for Science may like to comment at some stage is the arrangement for the disposal of the debris and pollution that are caused by such flooding. Debris and pollution have flowed from New South Wales into Lake Burley Griffin in Canberra and, I understand, have now flowed into other parts of New South Wales. I think there should be a combined effort by Federal and State authorities to dispose of this pollution without any one authority having to bear the brunt of that operation. Further, the events of last weekend brought to light again the need for a national insurance and compensation scheme whereby victims of these unexpected floods are recompensed for any loss they may suffer. Finally, I agree with the Minister for Science that all people involved in the exercise over the weekend are to be congratulated for their efficient and effective operations. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Has the shortage of Commonwealth Police, which is so detrimental to the safety and well-being of Australian citizens, been brought about by the decision to provide an extensive personal Commonwealth Police Force guard for the present Governor-General to protect him against the continuous and widespread expressions of public disapproval of his actions last November and subsequently. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to information stated by the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  in an answer to  Senator Grimes  during the sitting of Estimates Committee D on 7 October. In reply to a question by  Senator Grimes  the Minister stated quite clearly that the Federal Government, the Fraser Government, has abrogated to the States the responsibility for the funding of women's refuges. The information provided by the Minister during that exchange confirms information which I have already gained from  Senator Carrick,  the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, and from  Mr Hunt,  the Minister for Health. I point out to the chamber that I am highly critical of this decision of the Government to abrogate the responsibility for the funding. 
In reply to the point of order, I point out that the information on the funding of women's refuges about which I wish to speak this evening is available from sources other than the Estimates Committee debate. It has been made available to me by  Senator Carrick  and by  Mr Hunt.  I believe that  Senator Guilfoyle  has made this position clear on other occasions. I referred to the Estimates Committee debate because there was a very clear statement of the Government's position. I submit that the material is relevant other than in relation to the Estimates Committee debate. I seek permission to continue. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  The reason for my criticism of this decision is a very practical one. It will mean a decrease in the resources available to women's refuges throughout Australia. It will mean in some cases the closure of women's refuges. Indeed 2 women's refuges in Queensland have already been closed as a result of the Federal Government's decision to cease funding and to hand its responsibility to the Queensland Government. In practical terms this means that many women and children who would have been able to seek assistance from refuges will not have that source of assistance. I raise this matter tonight to draw attention to the difficulties faced by these women and children, in the hope that the Government may reconsider its policy and may give consideration to continued assistance. 
I wish to make a few remarks on the background of women's refuges. They are a community initiative. They were begun by women who were committed to assisting other women experiencing the trauma of domestic violence or some other domestic crisis. I would have thought that the self help concept so admirably demonstrated in the operation of women's refuges would have recommended itself to those who profess a Liberal philosophy. I would have also thought that these refuges would have recommended themselves to the present Government for another reason. They are extremely efficient in economic terms. For example, they prevent the break-up of families and the subsequent institutionalisation of families which is, as the Minister and other honourable senators are aware, a very expensive process. In many cases they provide short term assistance which enables women and their families to continue a normal existence afterwards. They are often the stepping stone for women towards economic independence or a more peaceful arrangement with their husbands whom they have had to leave. I submit to the Senate that the provision of normal welfare type services, normal welfare type housing for families in distress, homes for children and so on is a much more expensive operation than the subsidisation of women's refuges for a few thousand dollars a year to enable them to provide the sort of assistance that they do provide. 
There has been a great growth in the number of refuges in Australia in the past 2 years, and the growth itself demonstrates that there is a need. I should like to cite figures prepared by the National Women's Refuge Co-operative, which show that 23 refuges are operating in Australia, although the 2 refuges in Queensland have been closed down. In their period of operation the refuges have assisted 1 1 985 women and children. The figures show that there are 10 refuges in New South Wales, two in the Australian Capital Territory, two in Victoria, two in Tasmania, two in South Australia, three in Western Australia, one in the Northern Territory and two in Queensland. To date three of those refuges have received no funding. The others are funded mainly through the community health program. The Labor Government, having recognised the need which was demonstrated for the establishment of these refuges, agreed to fund them through the community health program. But the refuges funded by that method are now facing a reduction in the real allocation of support, and most of the other refuges which have been established since the defeat of the Labor Government receive no support at all. 
The question I would like to put to the Senate and in particular to the Minister for Social Security tonight is: Why has the Federal Government abandoned the refuges? Is it simply a rigid adherence to the federalism policy, to the technique of passing difficult responsibilities back to the States? I do not think that there can be any argument in this case along the line of devolution of responsibility because the refuges are run on an autonomous, self-regulating basis. Or has the Federal Government abandoned the refuges because of lack of concern by it about the particular kinds of distressed women and children who find themselves in refuges? It is certainly true that many of the women in the refuges are poor, they are unskilled, they are in poor physical and mental health, and they are without alternative resources to cope with the crisis which faces them. The Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, and the Minister for Social Security have repeatedly stated in and outside the Parliament that their Government is concerned about providing assistance to the most needy. I submit to the Senate that there are probably no more needy persons than some of those who find themselves in women's refuges. There seems to me to be no administrative reason, even given federalism, why the Federal Government cannot continue to provide direct assistance to the refuges. 
Under the Act which the Minister for Social Security administers, the Minister has responsibility for many Federal programs. They include pensions, unemployment benefits, the administration of the Homeless Persons Act and so on. So it seems to me that a national refuge program would fit in logically with the other Federal responsibilities of the Minister. I have been told by spokeswoman from the refuges, who I might point out have now made two fairly fruitless and expensive trips to Canberra to seek assistance, that the Minister has discussed the possibility of introducing some time in the future a Bill for the funding of women's refuges on a national basis. If the Minister is contemplating the introduction of such a Bill- that is, if she is contemplating accepting Federal responsibility for the refuges in the future- how can she reconcile that with the present position of herself and the Government that the refuges are to be a State responsibility? I believe that the Minister must know, as any honourable senators who concern themselves with this subject must know, of the difficulties currently faced by all the refuges. 
I do not know how many refuges the Minister has visited personally, and I would be interested to know the number. But I am sure that she has been given evidence from people concerned with refuges of the extreme difficulties. I am sure she would be aware that refuges receiving assistance receive only partial assistance for basic matters such as rent and some part time assistance and that they are in the main reliant on voluntary assistance. I can vouch because of the refuges I have visited personally that voluntary assistance has been stretched to its fullest extent. The business of working on a voluntary basis on a roster in a refuge is a very hard and demoralising business. Not a great number of women are suited to this kind of work. Volunteers often find themselves unable to maintain their assistance to refuges in this way because of the excessively depressing and unhappy aspect of the work involved in running women's refuges. 
Women's refuges have no organised fundraising bodies to assist them, as yet. They have no private source of funds to call on as many established charities do. Even refuges which are linked with established charities, such as the St Vincent de Paul refuge in Canberra, find themselves in extreme financial and administrative difficulties. I believe that the Minister must know that many refuges currently giving vital assistance to thousands of women and children throughout Australia will close down in the next few months if they do not receive assistance. I believe the Minister must know that in some States at least assistance will not be forthcoming and that many refuges will be beyond saving by the time the Government gets round to a national Bill for funding refuges, if it does. The refuges were an initiative by women to help other women, and that initiative gained the support of the Whitlam Government. The Fraser Government has inherited the responsibility of the women's refuges and should accept the responsibility. Arguing federalism will not save the refuges and will not help the thousands of women and children who need this help. I raise the matter in the Senate tonight in the hope that the Government and the Minister will be persuaded to maintain existing refuges as viable and efficient operations by the direct allocation of Federal funds. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security who assists the Prime Minister in child care matters. It refers to an Australian Bureau of Statistics publication released this month titled  Persons not in the Work Force.  At page 12 of this publication figures indicate that there are 285 000 women with children 14 years of age or under who would like to work if proper child care arrangements were available. Does the Minister consider that the reduced allocation of funds for child care in the recent Lynch Budget and the reduced resources for planning and administration following the abolition of the Children's Commission, will enable the mounting of a child care program adequate to meet the needs of the children of these 285 000 women who wish to exercise their choice of undertaking paid employment? 
Is the Minister for Education aware that the present ceiling of 650 ancillary staff for Australian Capital Territory schools and 147 ancillary staff for technical and further education institutions in the Territory has left Australian Capital Territory schools and technical institutions 100 positions short of the number required to maintain 1975 standards? Does the Minister agree that serious inefficiency and disruption have been caused by this shortage? In view of the Government's promise to maintain education standards in the Australian Capital Territory, will the Minister undertake an immediate review of the present arbitrary staff ceiling policy so ceilings can be raised to a level adequate to fulfil the Government 's promises? 
I wish to make a few remarks on the allocation in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) for the Australian Legal Aid Office. It seems to me that the failure of the Government to provide adequately for the future of the Australian Legal Aid Office constitutes a major breach of promise made, admittedly not at all stages, by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who at one stage threatened to disband it but certainly made consistently by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  It is something of a  cliche  in democracy to say that people should have equality under the law. Unfortunately this  cliche  was not realised in this democracy until the Whitlam Government took steps to realise it by setting up the Australian Legal Aid Office in 1973. The purpose of the Australian Legal Aid Office was to provide facilities by which all people could have equal access to the law. People on low incomes who had previously been unable to seek legal assistance or legal advice were no longer to suffer that very serious disadvantage. The service was based on the concept of providing a salaried service by lawyers who would deal exclusively in the kinds of cases that were judged as appropriate to be dealt with by the Australian Legal Aid Officethat is, the whole range of legal problems which people on low incomes might experience. 
The need for the Australian Legal Aid Office's services was amply demonstrated by the growth ofthe Australian Legal Aid Office. By 1975 33 offices had been opened, covering all States and Territories. The Whitlam Government recognised the very important service being provided to the low income earners in the community by the Australian Legal Aid Office, and demonstrated that recognition in the 1975 Budget, the Hayden Budget. Although the Government realised that there had to be cutbacks in some areas of public expenditure, there was still an allocation sufficient to provide for the opening of 28 further legal aid offices throughout the country. I point out that the geographical placement of these offices was such that the concept of decentralisation rather than the concept of centralisation, for which the Labor Government was so often reviled, was realised. Legal aid offices were established in most major country centres, thus offering for the first time in many cases legal facilities for low income groups in rural areas. 
The cost of the Australian Legal Aid Office was low. It was extremely low when compared with the cost of other public services such as education, health, roads, transport, etc. The cost of running the Australian Legal Aid Office for 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77 amounts to less than $38.5m. Of that something like $20m went in payment to private solicitors who worked hi co-operation with the Austraiian Legal Aid Office. So the Australian Legal Aid Office itself has cost only $18,092,400 in its 3 years of operation. 
It certainly is a growth industry, as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has pointed out. That is the very reason why I rose to speak on the allocation tonight. It is a growth industry. The Australian Legal Aid Office was established, I suppose, as an innovation. As an innovation, it would have had something of an experimental character; but the need was demonstrated so aptly. Of course it would be a growing need as more and more people in the community- more and more migrant people, more and more Aboriginal people and more and more low income people generally- came to realise that they were no longer to be deprived of legal assistance but could get it through the Australian Legal Aid Office. Of course the demand for such services would grow. But no allowance is made for this very healthy growth. 
There may be an apparent increase in the amount allocated, but there certainly is to be no growth. I will establish that when I continue my remarks. As there seems to be some scepticism in the chamber as to the need for the Australian Legal Aid Office services and the growth in this area, I refer to the results of a study published by the Australian Council of Social Service - 
I am looking at figures to which I wish to draw the attention of the Senate at this stage. A study was carried out by the Poverty Commission in 1973, before the Australian Legal Aid Office was established. It found that 70 per cent of residents in 3 low income Sydney suburbs had had a legal problem within the last 5 years where the advice or assistance of a lawyer would have been valuable. Yet, apart from conveyancing cases, lawyers were consulted in only 20 per cent of these cases. In its first 2 years of operation the Australian Legal Aid Office interviewed 141 478 people seeking assistance; that is, 48 773 in New South Wales, 26 699 in Victoria, 21 666 in Queensland, 13 576 in South Australia, 11 989 in Western Australia, 8312 in Tasmania, and 10 463 in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Before the Family Law Act came into operation the Australian Legal Aid Office was referring almost 3500 people each month to private practitioners for legal aid under the scheme, and it was expected that the new Act would more than double the demand for the services, which of course it did. I gave those figures for the record to demonstrate the very large numbers and the spread of the demand for legal aid services throughout all States and Territories. As of January this year the Australian Legal Aid Office had interviewed 189 109 clients. 
It is true that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said at one stage before he became Prime Minister that he would disband the Legal Aid Office, but subsequent to his saying that the present Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  promised on several occasions that legal aid services would not run down, that he would not disband the Australian Legal Aid Office. I refer to a Press statement issued by the Attorney-General on 28 March. He said that he wished to make it clear that he had not taken and would not take any steps to disband the Australian Legal Aid Office. He said that he regarded the salaried legal service as an essential part of the delivery of adequate legal aid services. In a further statement on 18 June he said that the Commonwealth 
Government had clearly indicated that it would continue to maintain legal aid at the current level through the Australian Legal Aid Office until consideration was given to the review he was conducting for the purpose of establishing a new system of legal aid in Australia. In the later statement there was some suggestion that in fact there was to be some disbanding. Subsequent to the Attorney-General making those statements he has in fact taken steps to disband the Legal Aid Office. One example of this is the answer given to question No. 163 in the House of Representatives in which  Mr Ellicott  answered a query with regard to the opening of new legal aid offices which had been planned by his predecessor. He said: 
The establishment of offices of the Australian Legal Aid Office at 28 new locations approved by the previous Government has been deferred pending completion of my review. 
Presumably the review has not been completed and those 28 offices have not been opened. As well as that, there has been a severe reduction in incomes applicable to means tests under which persons are eligible for aid from the Australian Legal Aid Office. The Attorney-General announced that the guidelines would be restricted as follows: Under the Labor Government's scheme the maximum disposable weekly income for eligibilty was $50 or $60 depending on the cost of the service. That is reduced now to $40 a week. The allowance for a spouse or one dependant was $20 under the Labor Government. It is reduced to $15 under the present Government. For each additional dependant the allowance was $15 under the Labor Government. It is reduced now to $10. Those reductions, of course, are much worse than they sound because they are over a period in which there has been inflation of 14 per cent. So the overall picture is that there is a reduction of about one-third in the permissible income for those seeking legal aid. 
In making these sorts of reductions the Attorney-General made remarks that we have come to regard as very typical of remarks coming from members of the present Government when they explain why they are reducing services to the public. It was said that legal aid services would continue for those most in need. We have heard that phrase in respect of the cuts in the child care budget. We have heard that phrase in respect of the alterations to Medibank. We have heard that phrase in respect to the so-called increases in the tertiary education allowances, which in many cases, of course, amount to reductions. What it means is that on a very literal interpretation of those words and a very precise examination of the figures one would find that certainly a person whose disposable income was less than $40 could be classified as a person most in need; but there is a whole group of persons who are in very serious need and whose income may be $41 a week or $45 a week. Equally, would such people not be in need of legal aid if they had to have legal assistance? 
-Or $100 a week, as my colleague  Senator Wheeldon,  who has more expert knowledge of legal fees than I have, has suggested. A disposable income of $100 a week, or perhaps one could say $150 a week, in this community would not enable a person to pay the huge fees often charged by private solicitors. So, for the Government to say, and for the AttorneyGeneral in this case to say, in a moralistic and self-justifying way 'We are making funds available for those most in need' when what the Government is doing is cutting out the largest group of needy people from assistance is sheer hypocrisy. The effect of it is certainly to deny access to the Australian Legal Aid Office to those very people for whom the Labor Government set up the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
There is another development in the area of legal aid to which the Government has not given proper recognition in its allocation, and that is the implementation of the Family Law Act. When the Labor Government set up the Australian Legal Aid Office the Family Law Act had not been passed and people were not coming to the Legal Aid Office to seek assistance under that Act. The Family Law Act has now been passed and people are seeking assistance under that Act from the Australian Legal Aid Office to such an extent that now the majority of the funds allocated for legal aid is being used on family law cases. In South Australia 80 per cent of legal aid funds are now going for Family Law Act cases. In New South Wales 70 per cent of legal aid funds are now going for Family Law Act cases. Therefore very little money is available for other legal services. I do not wish these remarks to sound as though I am in any way critical of the fact that people can now have access to low cost or free legal advice and assistance under the Family Law Act. That was yet another remarkable and admirable reform of the Labor Government. But whereas the Labor Government would have anticipated the increased demands on the Australian legal aid office services through the Family Law Act, the present Government has made no such recognition and has not allocated funds accordingly. In fact in the Australian Capital Territory the Government has imposed a fee of $60 on each person seeking a divorce action whereas formerly such action was to have been free. 
I would like to remark briefly on the allocation for the Aboriginal Legal Aid service, which is a mere $3.7m. Honourable senators on the other side of the chamber might point out- they seem to have gone to sleep now- that this is an increase on the $3m allocated previously by the Labor Government. But again I would say that the situation has changed completely. That $3m was allocated to see whether an Aboriginal legal aid service was something that could serve the needs of the Aboriginal community. It has proved to be very successful. In 1975 the Aboriginal legal aid service handled 20 000 cases in New South Wales alone. The Aboriginal legal service has won the confidence of Aboriginal people in many parts of the community, and so the demand for that service will be greatly increased. I point out to honourable senators opposite that this is another growth industry. I cannot stress too strongly the importance of the Aboriginals in our community finally having access to legal assistance. There are many dreadful effects of the racism that has been practised in the country ever since Europeans settled here, but perhaps among the worst were the injustices suffered by the Aboriginal community under our law. The disproportionately high ratio of Aboriginals to Europeans in prisons and other detention institutions speaks for itself. In some States up to 70 per cent- in some cases higher in the case of women prisoners- of prisoners are Aboriginal. Up to 70 per cent of children in some juvenile institutions, or homes, as they are euphemistically called, are Aboriginal. Those figures apply to a minority group, which makes up something less than one per cent of the population. Those figures in themselves indicate that in the past the Aboriginal community has not been receiving justice under the law and has not had access to proper legal advice. Similarly, the number of cases of victimisation of Aboriginals by law enforcement agencies such as the police is now very well documented and has given rise to a Bill already introduced into the Senate by  Senator Bonner  regarding the methods by which confessions have been extracted from Aboriginals under charge in the past. I mention these few things to draw attention to the fact that the $3.7m at present allocated by the Government is hopelessly inadequate if the Aboriginal community in Australia is to continue to have access to proper and sympathetic legal assistance. One more comment I would like to add on the subject of Aboriginal legal service is that we hope to have the land rights legislation passed in this session, and once we do there will be large numbers of very complex legal matters arising from land claims by various Aboriginal communities. Again those legal problems will have to be handled by the Aboriginal legal services. They are stretched to capacity at the present time, and the $3.7m allocated for the forthcoming financial year does not take any recognition of the fact that many Aboriginal communities will be using the Aboriginal legal services to make land claims. It would appear from the various reports of the intentions and discussions of the AttorneyGeneral with the State Attorneys-General that he considers that the philosophy of federalism may be called into operation again in the question of the provision of legal aid and that the States should take over what has been done to date by the Australian Legal Aid Office. In fact the discussions with the State Attorneys have been given as an excuse for the delays and confusion regarding the future of the Australian Legal Aid Office. I submit to the Senate that if the Australian Legal Aid Office is to continue to do the sort of work that it has done, it would be best organised and administered at the national level. If it is to be done on a State and territorial basis there will inevitably be duplication of administrative costs, there will inevitably be inefficiencies arising from these duplications and there will inevitably be anomalies with persons moving from State to State or from State to territory and finding different circumstances, different guidelines, different means tests and so on operating in each State and territory. 
Another criticism I would have of the State services as operating at present is that they do not offer advice but only paid assistance. In many cases people come for legal advice only. The State systems so far developed have not been able to provide that advice. Also, the present State systems are very expensive because the provision of legal aid involves the payment of private solicitors on all occasions. They do not use a salaried service. I suggest that the present service is inferior in terms of the advice that it can offer. By that I mean that lawyers working in salaried service full time with the Australian Legal Aid Office must develop an expertise in the kinds of cases that people bring to the Australian Legal Aid Office. They must develop an expertise in the kinds of legal problems faced by low income earners and other disadvantaged groups. I suggest that that expertise would be lost if the national scheme of providing legal aid were to be disbanded and become a fragmented State scheme, which would undoubtedly be provided only by private solicitors in some States. 
When we look at what the present Government has done, or has not done, regarding the Australian Legal Aid Office in the Australian Capital Territory we get some indication of what are its long term intentions. In the Australian Capital Territory there has been nothing but confusion regarding the future of the Australian Legal Aid Office. I have already mentioned the imposition ofthe $60 fee for divorce cases. There has been talk of legislation to set up a legal aid commission, but that legislation is still in the drafting stage. There has been no consultation with regard to the participation of community groups in such a commission. After nearly a year in office the Government has given no indication of the sort of guidelines that will operate or of who will or will not have access to legal aid. If it has taken the Government a year to make up its mind and it still has not made up its mind about the relatively contained and simple question of the provision of legal aid for the Territory, we cannot really have very much confidence that the negotiations and discussions referred to repeatedly by the Attorney-General will lead to a quick and efficient resolution of the problem of the future of the Australian Legal Aid Offices in the States. 
In conclusion I would like to say that despite its undertakings- particularly the undertakings of the Attorney-General which were much more optimistic than those of his leader- the Government has reduced the legal aid services available to the disadvantaged members of the community. The Government has created a great deal of confusion by failing to clarify the future of the Australian Legal Aid Offices in the territories and the States. The effect of the Government's procrastination has been to lower morale amongst the salaried officers of the Australian Legal Aid Office. I understand that some offices have lost skilled and talented staff because they could no longer remain in a position of uncertainty as regards their future employment. The Government has ignored the special needs arising from the passage of the Family Law Act. 
It has in no way anticipated the special needs will arise from the passage of the Aboriginal land rights legislation. I would suggest that despite the fact that various members of the Government have expressed beliefs to the contrary the Australian Legal Aid Office has been another victim of the federalist policy, which is attempting to give back to the States responsibilities for programs which they do not have the funds or the resources to administer properly. The only reason I can arrive at for the Federal Government's failure to preserve, expand and strengthen the Australian Legal Aid Office service is an ideological prejudice against a salaried professional service and a general lack of concern for the low income and disadvantaged members of the community. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What are (a) the weekly publishing costs and; (b) the weekly distribution costs ofthe  Commonwealth Record. 
Who made the decision to have the  Commonwealth Record  published and why. 
Who made the decision to have ten copies circulated to each senator and member, and why. 
How many members and senators are requesting extra copies. 
I present the following petition from 232 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas an amnesty was announced for all illegal migrants and that whereas  Mr Ignazio  Salemi, an applicant for amnesty, has been denied amnesty. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members of the Senate will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
That as  Mr Salemi  fulfils all the publicly announced criteria for amnesty he is permitted to remain in Australia as a resident. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 5 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the recent Budgetary allocations endanger the quality of Australian education, especially for disadvantaged groups and in particular for migrants, Aboriginals and tertiary students from poor backgrounds. 
Your petitioners believe that: 
All persons admitted to institutions of Tertiary Education in Australia have a right to adequate living conditions and that it is the responsibility of Government to ensure that sufficient funds are allocated to protect that right. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the quality of education in schools and tertiary institutions be not eroded but extended through the provision of adequate funds. 
That in view of the substandard living conditions forced upon many tertiary students as a consequence of the totally inadequate student assistance scheme there is an urgent need for a substantial increase and indexation of grants provided under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme to the level of a living wage and further that the needs based grants scheme be in no way jeopardised by any other program of student assistance. 
That in order to preserve the quality of higher education in Australia and so as to prevent discrimination against disadvantaged groups there should be no introduction of fees for overseas students, second degree students, higher degree students or any students. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to a Press statement issued by the Minister on 3 November relating to the future funding of pre-school services. The Press release was unclear on a number of vital matters and I seek clarification. Can the Minister explain how the Federal Government is to impose stringent conditions on block grants to the States for preschool assistance? Can the Minister explain how the Federal Government will ensure the diversification of the use made of existing pre-schools and what kinds of new activities the Government would accept as giving support to children in need? What funding procedures does the Federal Government intend to adopt in order to implement the claim that 'special attention will be paid to Aboriginal and migrant children*? 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Pass, immediately, the States Grants (Schools) Legislation for the year 1977 as recommended by the Australian Schools Commission in their Report for the Rolling Triennium 1977-79. 
In no way alter the present role and administrative functions of the Australian Schools Commission. 
Encourage the Australian Schools Commission to develop and implement without restrictions, a philosophy of Educational Funding independent of Government pressures. 
Guarantee continuing parent and teacher representation on the Australian Schools Commission through the two recognised national bodies, namely the Australian Council of State School Organisations and the Australian Teachers Federation who represent the vast majority of children in Australia attending Government Schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 7 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in theNorthern Territory. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal claims. The hearing of Aboriginal claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions, Aboriginals should not be penalised. 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from the Northern TerritoryLegislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control by Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on need as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in Lands Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1 975 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to over-ride Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both Houses of Parliament.  (0  A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I seek your guidance,  Mr Temporary Chairman.  I want to make some remarks about the estimates relating to the provision of government housing in the Australian Capital Territory, for both rental and purchase. Some of the figures to which I will be referring appear in the divisions you have just suggested we deal with  in globo  and some of my remarks will pertain to the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory. 
I present the following petition from 91 citizens of the Australian Capital Territory: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the rent increases on Government houses due to take effect from the end of October will create many anomalies and cause undue hardship to a great number of Canberra residents. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament asembled, should request the Minister for the Capital Territory to review his policy on rent increases and rescind rises due to commence on Thursday, 28 October, 1976. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, refers to a statement made by the Minister in the chamber yesterday regarding the restructuring of public broadcasting. There were many alarming and contradictory intentions revealed in that statement, but there is one particularly confusing aspect on which I seek clarification, that is, the intention to legislate for 2 women commissioners on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I ask the Minister: What precisely does the Government intend to achieve by such a provision? Does the Minister agree that the present provision for one woman on the Commission is outdated and discriminatory and does not reflect current attitudes to women in positions of influence? Does the Minister agree that to provide for only 2 women on the Commission would be just as discriminatory in that it would suggest that without such a provision, ungenerous as it is, no women at all would be appointed? Would not such a provision be treated as an upper limit and thus prevent more than 2 able women being appointed to the Commission; or is the provision merely a strategy to enable the Government to sack the staff representative, Marius Webb, and replace him with a partisan female appointment, while making a transparently token gesture towards equality of the sexes? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It refers to her recent statement regarding new arrangements for pre-school and child care funding. Does the Minister agree with the Assistant Minister for Health in Victoria,  Mr Jona,  that the new arrangements will lead to a breakdown in integrated childhood services? Can the Minister give details of what prior consultation took place between her Department and State authorities in Victoria and all other States? To what extent did the Minister seek the views and advice of the State and Territorial consultative committees before the new funding arrangements were decided? What assurances can the Minister give that her Department will not bypass State and 
Territorial authorities and consultative committees when reaching future decisions on preschool and child care programs? 
I rise to oppose this legislation, the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. I must confess that  Senator Scott  expressed during the course of his remarks some quite reasonable sentiments about industrial matters in this country. Given that he is a supporter of a Government that is patently antiunion some of his remarks about co-operation between the various elements of industry and so forth are very reasonable indeed. However, it is unfortunate that reasonable as  Senator Scott  was in some of his remarks the legislation before us is not reasonable at all and the reasonable sentiments expressed by  Senator Scott  are certainly not expressed in the legislation before us.  Senator Scott  spoke of the need for flexibility and of the complex nature of the trade union movement in Australia. Both of these things are true but the legislation before us takes no note of either. In fact it prevents flexibility and it will add to the difficulties and complexities of the trade union movement. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 is a scandalous piece of legislation. It embodies a complete reversal of the constantly repeated promises during 1975 and 1976 by the coalition parties to make the unions more democratic. The legislation embodies decisions taken without proper consultation with the unions. By that assertion I mean that the peak councils of the trade union movement were simply told by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  what was going to happen. They were not consulted in advance about the specific amendments we have before us. I think it is easy to see that this piece of legislation is a cynical piece of manipulation of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act by a Government that thinks it can do what it likes because it has the numbers and also because it has conducted such a successful, if dishonest campaign of union bashing. I find it disgraceful that such major reversal of the rights of the rank and file unionists can be perpetrated with so little public discussion or criticism. 
I would like to criticise the media over this matter. The very same media that aided and abetted the coalition parties all of last year and most of this year in their union bashing campaign are now strangely silent about this legislation. I saw virtually no coverage of the debate on this legislation in another place even though the campaign which the media aided and abetted was based on the idea and a promise that unions were to become more democratic. Here we have a piece of legislation which cynically reverses the moves that had been made by the Whitlam Government to make unions more democratic but the media are virtually silent. Therefore I take the opportunity presented to me in this debate to use the forum of Parliament to spell out the hypocrisy and double dealing of the Government which is embodied in this legislation and the serious attack it constitutes on the democratic rights of the rank and file trade unionists. 
I would like to make, for the purposes of the record, a few remarks about the background to the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in recent years. Since 1951 the Act has provided for elections by secret ballot although it did not provide for postal voting. I would like to point out that where elections were conducted on the job at stop work meetings held for that purpose absent members were entitled to apply for an absentee postal vote. Despite the hypocritical criticism by reactionary elements of the Parliament of this system of voting which is practised by such unions as the Waterside 
Workers Federation and the Seamen's Union of Australia it is important to note that this method of voting was in fact highly democratic in that it achieved up to 90 per cent union membership participation in elections as opposed to about 40 per cent average participation achieved through a system of postal voting. I think it is important to point this out because so much of the coalition parties' campaign against the unions was intended to suggest that there was very little participation by the rank and file in elections that did not include postal voting. Prior to 1973 officials in unions were elected either under the rank and file system or under a number of collegiate systems according to the rules of the particular organisations involved. 
The Cameron legislation in 1973 contained two very substantial measures of progress towards full democracy in the trade union movement. The first was the provision that all ballots were to be conducted by rank and file election. Unions which were still operating under the collegiate system were given a period of 3 years to change their rules and to provide for rank and file elections. Secondly, the Cameron legislation offered very significant encouragement to the unions to have ballots officially conducted by the Industrial Registrar or the Electoral Office by guaranteeing the cost of such ballots. Both of these measures constituted major progress in increasing democracy in the unions but in its union bashing campaign in 1975 and 1976 the coalition chose to deceive the public about the effects of the Cameron legislation. Coalition spokespeople continued to accuse the unions of being controlled by left-wingers who are unrepresentative of their leadership and so on. And of course they were aided and abetted by the media in their attempt to confuse the electorate about what went on in union elections and what the Cameron legislation provided for. Indeed the media together with the coalition parties succeeded in confusing the general public who I think did come to believe that there was no provision for rank and file voting in union rules and that the Cameron legislation had not made any progress towards democracy in trade unions. In fact, of course, the Cameron legislation, had it been allowed to proceed untampered with, would have ensured that by the end of this year all ballots would be conducted by the rank and file method. 
I think it is worth drawing the attention of honourable senators and any other people who may be listening to this debate to the numerous undertakings given by coalition spokespersons to establish democracy in the unions. I will quote just a few examples; of course, there are hundreds of them. These examples demonstrate very clearly the way the present Government went about confusing the public over the issue of union ballots. The first quotation is from the present Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. On 22 August 1975 he said: 
Our emphasis on the individual also leads us to the view that every member of Industrial Organisations should get a full and equal opportunity to influence policy within these organisations. To encourage this, the Liberal-National Country Party Government would provide secret ballots under Commonwealth Electoral Office supervision for the election of officers to elected positions. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  on 7 April this year said: 
Events over recent years have emphasised the very basis of trade union democracy is under threat. Some of Australia's most powerful unions are now controlled by officials who have gained their positions as a result of election at which only a very small percentage of members entitled to vote did in fact cast their vote. The democratic principle is at the heart of the foundation of unions in Australia. The principle has been dangerously eroded and it is heartening to find recognition of that fact in the Union movement, and even more heartening to have the constructive suggestions coming forward designed to restore more democratic control. 
On 13 December 1975  Mr Street  stated: 
. secret postal ballots would end other prospects of fear tactics and intimidation being used against rank and file Unionists . . . We believe that by conducting elections along these lines and by giving maximum publicity to union elections more members will participate in the voting, and that the elected officers will reflect the wants of the rank and file. 
On 10 December 1975  Mr Street  stated: 
The Liberal and National Country Parties wholeheartedly supported these demands and would introduce legislation as soon as possible for secret ballots for the election of trade union officials. 
On 9 February 1976 the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, said: 
We will be hoping to press for as early as possible the important matter in the policy speech, secret ballots for the election of officials of industrial organisations. 
I shall not continue with these quotations, although I could continue for quite a long time as these promises were made so often; but I ask honourable senators to note that in the promises made by the Prime Minister and by  Mr Street  there is an emphasis on postal voting as being the essential element in introducing democracy into the unions. It seems to be suggested that postal voting is more important even than rank and file voting in order to ensure democracy. All those statements of intention and promises were made with tedious repetition over the past 2 years. 
Let us look at what has happened now. In May and June of this year the Government introduced legislation requiring postal ballots in all unions; but the legislation before us will allow unions to opt out of the requirement of postal ballots through choosing the collegiate system. I find that a quite amazing piece of double-dealing by the Government. For months the Government talked about the importance of establishing postal ballots and how democracy would be achieved by imposing postal ballots on the unions. In the legislation now before us unions are given the opportunity to choose to continue with the collegiate system, which of course does not require postal voting. This point was made on 5 May of this year, in the  Tribune  by  Mr Laurie  Carmichael, who comes from a union at which many of the Government's measures have been specifically aimed, although quite unsuc.cessively aimed as it turns out because of the legislation before us.  Mr Carmichael  stated: 
Fraser, by linking postal ballots with the collegiate system, will force unions to turn to the collegiate system to protect themselves against the threat of cooked ballots conducted through the Commonwealth Electoral Office. 
The point I hope I am making clearly- I think there was some confusion about this in the debate last night- is that by allowing for the collegiate system to be perpetuated the Government also is allowing unions not to have postal ballots; that is, not to have the very system which the Government claimed was essential for democracy. 
I do not think I am confused about it. I now turn to the legislation before us. It is interesting that it comes up right at this time, because we are now at the end of the 3 years prescribed in the Cameron legislation of 1973, during which time all unions would have to adopt the rank and file method of election. At this time some unions, including all National Civic Council controlled unions such as the Federated Clerks Union and the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association, have not changed to the rank and file method. Because of the legislation before us they will not have to change to rank and file election. They will be able to maintain their current leadership, which is not a democratically elected leadership. The present leadership, which I repeat is not a democratically elected leadership, will be entrenched by the legislation before us. 
I think it is perfectly reasonable for me and other members of the Opposition to place a very sinister interpretation on what the Government has done by developing amendments at the very moment when all unions, particularly the NCC dominated unions, would have had to transfer to the most democratic method of electing officials; that is, the rank and file method. Suddenly the Government, violating all its previous undertakings, has introduced an amendment which will not require those unions still using the collegiate system to change to the more democratic method, or to the postal ballot method. So, we will have an entrenchment of non-elected leadership which will be able to possibly remain- I would say very probably in many cases- against the wishes ofthe rank and file. It seems reasonable to suggest that this demonstrates blatant prejudice by the Government in favour of the NCC unions, although ironically some communist controlled unions which still have the collegiate system will be able to maintain their leadership under the same provisions. 
Whilst that may not be a matter of particular distress to the Opposition, it certainly appears to be a matter of distress to certain members of the Liberal Party, particularly the very few of them who are involved in the trade union movement. My colleague in another place, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  quoted in its entirety a letter to  Mr J.  Atwell, Federal  President  of the Liberal Party of Australia, from a  Mr Noel  Wilson, an official of the Federated Clerks Union in Queensland who is also a member of the Liberal Party. I do not intend to quote the entire letter again, as it has been included in  Hansard  already. However, for the purpose of adding point to my remarks I shall quote part of it. It was written on 25 October 1976. 1 remind the Senate that this is a letter from an active member of the Liberal Party who is also an official of the Federated Clerks Union. The letter states in part: 
On Thursday afternoon of last week, the Minister, the  Hon.  A. Street, introduced an amendment which for all time, in my opinion, negated the right of rank and file union members to elect on a national basis their Federal Officials and ensured the perpetuation in office of those officials under this system who have never faced a rank and file ballot and under the swindle concocted by the Government will never have to. 
This may sound a strong statement, but as proof of my allegations I provide the following information. 
As a Federal Councillor of the Federated Clerks' Union of Australia, I received in the mail today a purported amendment to our Federal Rules which is completely in line with the amendment introduced into the House by the Minister. I stated it would be physically impossible to have this suggested rule amendment properly drafted, typed and despatched in the rime available without prior knowledge by those responsible for such amendment of the intended action by the Minister. 
To me it is crystal clear that this Government has 'done a deal' with the Santamaria/National Civic Council group and has 'sold out' thousands of Australian unionists who  saw, in the pre-election industrial promises of this Government, an opportunity to place their own acceptance or rejection on whom would be the Federal Officials of a number of Australian Trade Unions. 
They are the remarks, they are the point of view, not of a member of the Opposition about which the Government might have understandable scepticism, but a member of their own political party and of their own political persuasion. It is that person intimately involved in the business of the union movement, and the Federal Clerks' Union in particular, who has made the claims of prejudicial behaviour by the Government in favour of the NCC controlled movement. 
It is immaterial where I got the letter from. I would be very interested to hear  Senator Harradine  's answer to the assertions made in the letter when he has an opportunity to speak. I believe the letter demonstrates that there has been blatant prejudice by the Government in its attempt to control NCC unions. 
I now address some remarks to the second reading speech of the Minister for Veteran's Affairs  (Senator Durack)  which seems to me to be a masterpiece of double talk. It is the kind of masterpiece we on this side of the chamber are becoming used to with statements by Ministers. Nevertheless, I think this is a particularly outstanding example. The Minister started off by claiming as follows: 
AH members of the Parliament are, I am sure, committed to democratic control of trade unions and employer organisations. 
He then proceeded to table legislation which erodes very significantly that specific idea of democratic control of trade unions and employer organisations. The Minister went on to say: 
The fact is, however, that direct election is not, in all situations, a guarantee of proper democratic control. 
I cannot imagine what arguments the Minister has to support such an assertion. How can it be that a system of election which allows every member of a union a voice is less democratic than a collegiate system which does not allow every member a direct voice in the election of union officials? There has been some suggestion by some members of the Government that somehow the collegiate system is more democratic because it protects the interests of the smaller States. I point out that the interests of the smaller States are not protected by either a collegiate system or a rank and file system; they are protected by the rules of the individual organisations, most of which make special provision for representation of smaller States. 
On the national committee of management. 

 - Senator Harradine will have ample opportunity to justify his quite surprising and amazing opinions about the collegiate system being more democratic than the rank and file system. I think it is an entirely spurious claim by the Minister, and by anyone else who makes such a claim, that somehow the collegiate system ensures more democracy than the rank and file system. 
The Minister also claimed in his second reading speech that the Government has taken account of a wide spectrum of opinion. In answer to that claim I stress again that there was no consultation of peak unions with regard to the specific amendments- in particular the amendment providing that office bearers shall not constitute more than 15 per cent of the members of the college to which I shall refer later- which were introduced during the debate in the other place. However, there is evidence which I have just quoted of intimate and lengthy consultations with sectors of the trade union movement, that is, the NCC unions which of course seemed to know about the Government amendments before they were introduced. 
The Minister also claimed that the amendments will give organisations a choice. I think  Senator Scott  stressed that aspect of the legislation or what he perceived to be that aspect of the legislation. He said that, given the complexity of the trade union movement, it is important to have as much flexibility as possible and that this provision for maintaining the collegiate system will provide choice. I point out that clearly there will be no choice for the rank and file members. Certainly there is a kind of choice but who will exercise that choice as to whether there be a rank and file election or collegiate system election? It is not the rank and file members of the organisation but the committees of management- the officials of the unions. There is no provision in the legislation for rank and file ballots as to what kind of election that union will have subsequently. So it is quite spurious of Government members to suggest that this legislation is simply providing a choice which rank and file members may exercise. Only the organisation itself may exercise a choice; the rank and file members are stuck with what their non-democratically elected representative officials may decide. Of course the pre- 1973 legislation, the multi-tier collegiate system, has been reintroduced for the election of part-time officers. 
Another important point that has been mentioned and which I shall mention again is the change in the definition of 'office' in section 4. The defintion of 'office' is now extended to enable unions, that is, management of unionsagain not the rank and file members of unions- to appoint persons to undertake duties similar to those performed by an elected officer. I submit that this constitutes a further erosion of the right of rank and file participation in the election of those who will perform the duties of officers. Of course this is another means by which the controlling faction of any particular union can strengthen and reinforce its position without recourse to election by the rank and file membership. Similarly the amendment introduced during the course of the debate in another place which provided that 15 per cent of the Federal college should not have to face re-election after they are once elected is another way of eroding the rights of rank and file membership. It is another measure towards permanently entrenching the factions currently controlling some unions. As I have pointed out this particular amendment, which has such serious consequences, was introduced by the Government without anything remotely resembling proper consultation with the union movement. 
In summary, I and other members of the Opposition, are opposing this legislation because it removes the right of the rank and file members of unions to participate directly in ballots for their full time Federal officers because it enables minority factions at present in control of some unions to retain control of those unions against the wishes of the rank and file members, because the legislation was drawn up without proper consultation with the union movement, and because particularly the 15 per cent amendment was introduced with no consultation and is an erosion of the democratic rights of the trade union movement. Most of all, we in the Opposition oppose this legislation because it is a complete reversal of all the undertakings given by members of the coalition parties during 1975 and 1976 about introducing democracy into trade unions. It is a complete breach of faith with unionists and, perhaps more importantly, with the entire electorate. 
I believe that the Government has done this as a part of its overall campaign against the living standards achieved by working people in this country. It has done this because of its ideology which leads it to believe that those who make profits are virtuous and must be given every opportunity to improve their profit making ability, whereas those who earn wages are feckless and irresponsible people who must be controlled and prevented by any means possible from achieving a higher standard of living than those who make profits find it comfortable for them to achieve. This legislation is part of the Government's general attempt to manipulate and control the trade union movement with a view to creating a docile and passive trade union movement which will never object to any attack on the living standards of its workers and which will never object in any effective way to any bad and destructive decisions of this Government. I take the most serious view ofthe bad effects that this legislation will have. I see it as an extension of the union bashing campaign of the Government. I think there is no rational justification for any of the measures that have been introduced. They do not increase the rights of unionists; they reduce them, and they reduce them in a way totally contrary to the claim made so often by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that every individual unionist shall be able to have a say in the affairs of his or her union. With that assertion, which I believe is a factual and a responsible assertion in view of the legislation with which we are faced today, I conclude my remarks. 
asked the Minister for Educaton upon notice: 
Will the Minister give assurances that when the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority is set up (a) community representation will remain unaltered, and (b) the Authority will be completely autonomous. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that a large retail chain, Waltons Limited, and its associated credit companies, FNCB Waltons Limited and Waltons Credits Limited, are engaging in consumer credit transactions which appear to infringe the laws relating to money-lending in several States. 
Does the Government, in the exercise of powers conferred by the Financial Corporations Act, intend to move on a national level to prevent such abuses of the laws relating to consumer credit. If not, what action is being taken to ensure the speedy reform of laws relating to consumer credit along the lines of the existing laws of South Australia, which have been most successful, and which have been recommended for adoption in all States and Territories by the 'Molomby' Committee and the Standing Committee of Federal and State Attorneys-General. 
-I present the following pet  ition from 1 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the Government's Child Care Policy should be immediately clarified and announced to ensure continuity of programmes and allow effective forward planning. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It refers to a Press release issued by the Minister on 2 1 October on the community youth support scheme, whereby unemployed youth will be paid up to $6 per week to work on what was described as voluntary work programs. The statement said that the scheme would operate from the first of this month. How many local committees, as described in the release, have been set up to run such programs? How many young people have been employed for up to $6 a week? Finally can the Minister explain to the chamber why he expects unemployed youth genuinely seeking employment to accept $6 per week to work on projects such as child care programs and recycling programs, which were mentioned in the release, when the Government could offer such work at award wages for the unemployed? 
These 8 Bills represent the Government's program for funding education, via the 4 education commissions, for the next financial year. The Opposition does not oppose these Bills, although the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt),  has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading. We consider that there has not been proper provision in these Bills for technical education. In the Committee stage the Leader of the Opposition will be moving 2 amendments to the Bill relating to the Schools Commission. Because there has been such criticism by members of the Government, by other sections of the community and by some sections of the media, of the rapidly increased expenditure on education under the Labor Government, I refer to the latest Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development publication on public expenditure in education which was published in July 1 976. 1 do this because I think it is important to get an international perspective on the matter of funding of education programs and to get some kind of comparison between Australia and similar countries with respect to expenditure on education before we start saying that there has been too much or too little expenditure on this vital area of social policy. 
The study recently conducted by the OECD found that all OECD countries had increased their expenditure on education in recent times. 
The report discerned from the various countriesthere are developed and developing countries in the OECD group- 2 major different objectives by countries increasing their expenditure on education. I wish to quote from the OECD's summary of those 2 objectives. It extrapolates also into the future in regard to education expenditure. I quote from page 72 of the report to which I am referring. The first aspect is: 
If a major preoccupation in the years to come is going to be with output and productivity, then compensatory education can help by allowing a fuller use of the potential of under-privileged groups, pre-school education by freeing mothers for work, and recurrent education (whatever the short-run output losses) by making higher education more responsive to the needs of the economy and by spreading learning through a larger share of the population. 
Secondly, a different type of objective was described in these terms: 
If, on the other hand, society will to some extent be placing less emphasis on the aims of faster quantitative growth, and will be giving more attention to qualitative issues such as equality and cultural values, these types of educational programs, and notably positive discrimination in favour of disadvantaged groups, could make a positive contribution. 
So, whichever objective a government haseither that of increasing productivity or that of working towards equality- there is a case to be made for increased expenditure on education, particularly in the area of compensatory education for disadvantaged groups. 
It should be well known to all members of the Senate that, in its early period in office, the Labor Government had the second objective that I have quoted most clearly in mind, that is, the objective of increasing equality, of diffusing cultural values, of assisting disadvantaged groups via compensatory funding, to make more of a contribution to society. It does seem to me that the present Government may be more interested in the first objective, that is, of increasing productivity and linking the education system more directly to the requirements of the market. I say that it may be the case that the Government has this objective because, really, the Government has not made its education policy very clear. The Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  has engaged in a great deal of criticism of Labor's education program and has raised again and again in this chamber the claim that it was the Labor Government that started the erosion of education programs by reducing financial support for them. But, despite all these negative comments and assertions by the Minister for Education to which we have been subjected in the course of this Parliament, there really has been very little by way of a positive statement on just what this Government intends to achieve by funding education and how the contraction in education funding that we see in the Budget that was brought down recently by the Treasurer of this Government,  Mr Lynch,  can be related to whatever objectives the Government may have in education and the amount of money and resources that it is prepared to allocate to education. I do hope that the Minister, when he participates in this debate, might say something positive about what his Government intends to do in education rather than just continue in a tirade of abuse against the inadequacies, as he alleges them to be, of the Whitlam Government in this respect. 
There have been some changes that we can observe very clearly in the approach of the present Government to education. I suppose the most serious of them has been the introduction of what the Government chooses to call the rolling triennium system of funding. Although I and many of my colleagues have stated this before, I think it is most important to state again that the Labor Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  did not cease the triennial system of funding completely. It is true that, in the 1975-76 Budget, there was a one-year suspension of the triennial program. But as evidence of the fact that the Labor Government never intended triennial funding to finish completely, I point out that, at the same time as it announced that there would be a year's suspension of triennial funding and that there would be just a 1976 allocation for education, the Labor Government announced also that the 4 education commissions were to be invited to come up with new triennial reports, that is, for the triennium 1977-1979. This the commissions subsequently did. If that fact is taken into account- that is, that a fresh triennial program was called for and provided by the 4 commissions- I think it can be seen that there is no basis for the claim that the Labor Government brought triennial funding to an end. 
Nor is there any basis for the Government's claim that it has restored triennial funding. What it has done is to introduce this concept of rolling triennial funding, which is really just annual funding with some vague and tentative indication of the level of funding which might come in the following 2 years. It seems that commissions may not make firm purchasing commitments and so on on the basis of a projected 2 per cent increase in funds in 1978 and 1979. If that is the case, there is no firm commitment by the present Government for funding levels for 1978 and 1979. If there is no firm commitment to those 2 years, there is no triennial system of funding; there is an annual system of funding with some vague projections as to the following 2 years. Of course, every year the system will be revised. So, education administrators will really only know from year to year what resources they will have at their disposal and what planning they will be able to undertake. 
I wish to address some remarks to the Minister for Education who, I am pleased to see, is in the chamber, about his claims that there was a reduction of federal support for education in the Hayden Budget of 1975-76. 1 would say bluntly that there was no reduction in federal support for education in that Budget; there was an increase. The total figure allocated for education in the Hayden Budget was $ 1908.2m for the 1975-76 financial year- an increase of $237m over actual expenditure for the 1974-75 financial year. Those facts are beyond dispute. The falsity of the claim that the Labor Government intended to reduce its expenditure on education should no longer be a matter for dispute. 
There were other increases in the Hayden Budget. I intend to mention some of them as they have been ignored or denied in previous debates and comments in this chamber. First, the expenditure on capital projects that had already been undertaken in education was continued. Secondly, recurrent expenditure was continued at a level sufficient to maintain existing standards and existing staff-student ratios. Thirdly, the proportion in 1975 of each age group proceeding to tertiary education was to be maintained for the following year, and sufficient funds were allocated for that purpose. Fourthly, the triennial system of funding was not entirely abandoned, as I have just spelt out, but there was commencement of planning for the new triennium from 1977 to 1979. 
As well as those substantial efforts to maintain and increase education expenditure there were specific increases in the funds allocated for student assistance. There was a specific and quite large increase in the area of curriculum development. The National Curriculum Development Centre was set up and funds allocated for research projects in curricula. There was a specific increase for migrant education. There was a large specific increase for other kinds of educational research. There were specific increases for Aboriginal education. So in all these areas there were increases, not decreases and not even simply a static situation. 
During the period of Labor Administration expenditure on education doubled nearly twice. I would like to mention some figures to give substance to that claim. In 1 972-73 expenditure on education was $443m; in 1973-74 it was $859m; in 1974-75 it was $ 1,672m; and in 1975-76 it was $ 1 .908m. As well as that, during the period of the Labor Administration cost indexation of capital and recurrent grants was adopted for universities, colleges and schools and was agreed upon for technical and further education. In answer to the critics who say that such an increase was extravagant, unjustified and so on, I refer to the gross national product figures for comparable countries. In 1971-72, when we were coming to the end of 23 years of coalition rule, Australia spent 4.7 per cent of GNP on education, compared with 8.9 per cent in Canada, 6. 1 per cent in the United Kingdom, 7.3 per cent in the United States of America and 7.9 per cent in the Netherlands. In 1972-73 Australia's figure was increased to 4.8 per cent, in 1973-74 to 5 per cent, in 1974-75 to 6.2 per cent, and in 1975-76 6.4 per cent was to have been spent on education. This was a rapid increase and yet one that cannot be called unjustified in world terms as it still left us quite significantly behind countries such as Canada, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. 
The achievements of the Labor Government in the field of education cannot simply be stated in terms of money. At this point I agree with those who say that more than money is needed to improve the education system. Money is needed, but more things than money are needed. There were other achievements. There was a tremendous impetus in school education caused mainly by the setting up of the Australian Schools Commission with its various national co-ordinated and innovative programs. There was a great improvement in morale in the teaching profession generally and in the school teaching profession in particular brought about by the new recognition of the national importance of education. 
There was change. When I say there was change, I do not wish to be interpreted as suggesting that change for change's sake is something to be admired; but there was necessary change. The education system was failing to equip school leavers with skills they needed to be competent in subsequent areas of work and in life generally. We have heard a lot about that in this session of Parliament. We have heard a lot about what are claimed to be growing illiteracy rates. We have heard a lot about the unsuitability of many school leavers for employment, but I would point out that as the period of the Labor Administration was so short and as the stage people are at when they leave school is a culmination of their entire school experience, it is quite inaccurate and quite distorted to look at any faults and inadequacies in current school leavers and say that they came about during the period of the Labor Administration. If, for example, there is serious illiteracy amongst school leavers, and 1 am not sure there is, then that illiteracy would be the culmination of their entire school experience. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was attempting to establish, I hope beyond dispute, that the Labor Government had increased education funding at every stage and in all forms. Even in the 1975 Budget- the Hayden Budget- there had still been an increase in funds available for education and not a reduction, as has been claimed by honourable senators opposite. I was also saying that, apart from the very great increase in money resources that the Labor Government put into education, it put other things into education such as a greatly improved impetus, a greatly increased morale and the circumstances in which constructive and useful changes in education environments and techniques could be brought about. 
One of the other achievements of the approach of the Labor Government to the funding of education- I think that this was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedtwas  that finally we were able to solve the bitter sectarian dispute over State aid. We resolved that by establishing a very simple and, I think, very right principle that funding of all kinds of education and funding of schools and students in schools should be not on the basis of whether they were government or private schools but on the basis of need. I think that that principle was widely accepted in the Australian community, and accepted with a great deal of relief after the many years of bitterness that had revolved around the question of the rights of nongovernment schools to support by public moneys. 
The concept of funding on a needs basis was embodied in the earlier legislation put up by the Labor Government and embodied in the Karmel report from which the first programs of the Schools Commission were established. It is an unfortunate historic fact that the first attempt by the Labor Government to revise funding of schools completely on the basis of need- I am referring to the States Grants (Schools) Act of 1973- had to be modified to a slight extent because of the obstruction of the coalition parties in the Senate. They were not happy that funding was to be carried out entirely on the basis of need, which would have meant that some of our richest schools would have lost the level of public support that they had been receiving to that point. Because they held the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1973 to ransom over this point there was of necessity a slight modification by the Labor Government to its newly developed principle of funding according to need. However, apart from that modification, which meant that category A schools would continue to receive the level of funding that they have been receiving previously, the concept of funding according to need was established and developed during the subsequent  2Vi  years. 
I am unhappy to see, particularly in the statement made today by the Minister for Education, that there is an attempt at eroding that very important principle that was established. I am referring to the remark that he made in respect of funding of non-government schools. I certainly do not want to open the State aid debate again, and I think that I speak for all people in the Opposition when I say that we approve the increases in  per capita  grants to the most needy schools from $223 to $229. We approve those increases because they are diverting funds to the most needy schools. We have no quarrel with that. However, if we look at the overall proportioning of funds between government and nongovernment schools we find that the nongovernment schools are having their allocation increased by 24 per cent while the government schools 's allocation is being increased by 11.5 per cent. The justification given by the Government for this new balance in the funding of education is the necessity of making the exercise of choice by parents a financial possibility. Whilst we in the Opposition do not dispute that parents and students if at all possible should exercise choice, we would disagree with the present Government as to the extent to which that choice should be subsidised from the public purse when it is being subsidised at the expense of a poorer sector of education. I do not want to proceed with remarks on this matter because it is very easy to be misinterpreted. I repeat that we have no dispute with funds going to non-government schools in need but we would question the return to the permanent maintenance of the  per capita  funding of schools in the highest category of resource allocation. 
Also with respect to the funding of schools, we are very disappointed to notice that no provision has been made for any devolution of financial responsibilities to schools themselves or to school boards. The Leader of the Opposition will be moving an amendment in order to provide such a devolution. It is not only we in the Opposition who are disappointed; parent and teacher organisations also have expressed their disappointment over this matter to the Government and to the Opposition. It strikes me as being contradictory for the Government to claim that its policies are 'concerned to encourage community participation' when it has made no provision for such community participation in its allocation of funds. When the previous States Grants (Schools) Bill went through the Senate earlier this year the Opposition moved an amendment to provide that a small proportion of the recurrent funds that go to schools be set aside for use at the discretion of the school or the governing body of the school, one with community representation, for which the phrase 'school board' is the most general description. The Government rejected that amendment then and it has not put up such an amendment now. I think that the Government's failure to make such a provision- that provision was recommended in several Schools Commission reports- indicates that its talk of encouraging community involvement is merely so much rhetoric. 
I also find it hard to understand why the Government resists the idea of giving properly and democratically elected school boards a small amount of financial autonomy when both sides of the chamber have been happy to give to the private school sector almost complete autonomy in the handling of large amounts of government funds. If the governing boards of private schools have established themselves as competent and responsible in the administration of funds I see no reason why the present Government should not expect that the governing boards of government schools would be similarly responsible and competent. I believe that such a provision would increase parent and community involvement. It would increase the awareness of the community about the cost involved in education and the difficulties involved in the administration of education, and would generally lead to a more informed and aware education community. 
The other matter on which we will be moving an amendment is that relating to the opportunity provided in the legislation for State governments to transfer Federal moneys from the capital category to the recurrent category. Whilst we in the Opposition understand that this may be a sensible or feasible measure in some cases, we believe that such a change in the use of money should be carried out only after consultation with the Schools Commission. If it is not carried out in consultation with the Schools Commission it will undermine the national program of the Schools 
Commission, the national objective of the Schools Commission, which is to ensure that all schools in Australia reach a reasonable level in a specific length of time. If State governments can freely alter their use of money allocated for specific purposes, then there is no guarantee that desirable targets in education- I refer to those outlined in the original Karmel report- will ever be reached. So I suggest that the failure of the Government to provide for consultation with the Schools Commission in this matter is a further undermining of the program of funding according to need and a further undermining of the objective of bringing all schools in Australia up to a reasonable level within a given period. 
I turn briefly to the question of universities. The Minister for Education has claimed on many occasions that there will be a 2 per cent growth rate for universities. I point out yet again that that 2 per cent growth rate will be absorbed almost entirely by new institutions such as the Deakin University, the Griffith University and the Murdoch University, or by new schools in existing universities, such as the Australian Graduate School of Management at the University of New South Wales, the School of Medicine at the University of Newcastle, the School of Medicine at the Flinders University, and the School of Veterinary Studies at Murdoch University. By establishing those new schools- we are not critical of the fact that they have been established- we are setting up a drain on the resources made available to the Universities Commission, which will, I think, absorb all of the 2 per cent growth in the provision and which will leave the established universities in a very difficult position indeed. 
While I am on the subject of universities, I mention briefly the question of tertiary allowances, although I realise that the Government's new arrangements for tertiary allowances are not contained in the legislation currently before us. When we talk about the justification for putting public moneys into universities, we must also talk about those people who have access to those universities. While we have a situation in which the poorer students are forced through lack of proper support by student allowances to drop out of universities, we have a much poorer case for trying to justify the large expenditure of government moneys on universities. If universities are not widely and freely accessible to those who are able and motivated in the community, then they have much less call on public funds than they would if they were available to all properly qualified and motivated people. I hope that in the ensuing months the Government will revise its decision with regard to tertiary allowances, make the means test a little more generous and a little more realistic, and ensure that no student is barred from tertiary studies because of lack of funds alone. 
When we get to the area of technical and further education, we get to an area which has been controversial in this chamber. The Minister for Education has claimed that last year there was a reduction in Federal support by the Labor Government for technical and further education. By way of correcting those charges, I point out that during the period of the Labor Government expenditure on technical and further education increased by 350 per cent- and most justified it was. Enrolments increased from 400 000 to 745 000. Another very important measure introduced by the Labor Government was that which made technical and further education free. I think there is a causal relationship between the decision to make technical and further education free and the rapid increase in the number of enrolments. Although the fees charged by technical and further education institutions were not high -perhaps there are people in the Senate who would not believe that they would be beyond the reach of anybody- in fact, they were a deterrent to many people to undertake technical studies. 
I present the following petition from 41 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the 1976-77 Budget allocation of $73.3m for child care amounts to less than $23 per child per year which is totally inadequate. That in 39.4 per cent of married couple families, both parents work and of these 59 per cent have dependent children. That 38.6 per cent of female heads of families work and of these 64 per cent have dependent children. That present government child care programs are heavily biassed in favour of pre-school programs, 70 per cent of the funds being destined for pre-schools which only provide part-time services for children and do not cater for the needs of working parents. That existing government child care facilities, schools and other government buildings which could be used for child care programs are underutilised. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that urgent consideration will be given to: 
an increase in funds for child care services throughout Australia; 
an equitable distribution of funds to cover all the child care needs of the community; 
the cessation of the wasteful usage of sessional preschool buildings, instead these buildings to be used also to cover the full range of child care needs; 
the wider utilisation of government buildings or pans thereof, e.g. schools, hospitals and government offices for appropriate child care facilities. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many teachers are expected to be recruited overseas in 1976-77. 
Are teachers included in the categories of workers generally acceptable for migration in any State or Territory. 
Have any State Education Departments approached the Minister's Department requesting recruitment of teachers overseas. 
I present the following petition from 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independant staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Governments program of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
ANU Students' Association Fees 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations inform the Senate of the extent of unemployment in the entertainment industry, in particular the number of actors and musicians registered as unemployed? Will he confirm or deny the report that such unemployment has now reached 80 per cent? Is there any attempt by the Government to monitor increased unemployment where it is the direct result of Government policy, for example, the unemployment caused in the entertainment industry by the Government's refusal to allocate adequate funds to the Australian Broadcasting Commission? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Department of the Capital Territory replacing all street cleaners and little collectors as they resign, or retire. 
What were the numbers of street cleaners and litter collectors employed by the Department in October 1975 and in October 1976. 
Is the Department contracting out in 1976 many jobs formerly done by employees of the Department. 
How many temporary day labourers will be employed over the Christmas period this year and how many were employed over a similar period last Christmas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps has the Government taken to implement the Racial Discrimination Act 1975. 
How many staff have been allocated to the Commissioner for Community Relations to investigate complaints of unlawful behaviour under the Act. 
3 ) How many such complaints have been investigated. 
Has the Government established the conciliation committees referred to in Section 23 of the Act. If not, why not. 
Has the Attorney-General appointed the members of the Community Relations Council as provided for in Section 4 1 of the Act. If not why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Was a grant of $20,500 from the National Health and Medical Research Council to the University of Sydney discontinued. If so, did this lead to the stopping of a research project investigating the effects of marihuana on the endocrine system in humans and its effects when combined with alcohol. 
Will the Minister have the grant continued. If not, explain why there is apparent neglect of this important area of research. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many home buyers have actually been assisted under the savings grants to first home buyers scheme. 
What are the operational costs of this scheme so far. 
I present the following petition from 299 citizens from the Australian Capital Territory: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned, strongly oppose the latest rent increases applied to government flats and houses and further proposed rent increases announced by the Department of the Capital Territory. 
We call for a public inquiry into the reasons for the increases. 
We support the actions of residents and the Trade Union Movement in opposition to the rent increases including the refusal to pay the increases and union bans. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Why were the Committees on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation at both State and National level disbanded on 30 June 1976. 
Are these Committees to be reconvened. If so, when. 
Will these Committees ever be in a position to recommend the bringing down of anti-discrimination legislation. 
I present the following petition from 265 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That we desire more consideration and public discussion concerning the changes envisaged in the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill No. 2, 1 976. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Re-affirm the independence of the ABC as the National Broadcasting Service belonging to the people and not to the Government of the day, whatever political party. 
Reject a reduction of the numbers of ABC Commissioners, including the staff commissioner. 
Reject review of the ABC by the newly created Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, when similar reviews are not scheduled for the commercial broadcasting sector. 
Reject any reduction in the wide range of ABC programs by either direct censorship and /or financial restrictions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. It follows the 17'/i per cent devaluation of 28 November last. Does the Minister agree that the short term inflationary effects of devaluation will necessitate further allocations to 'cost supplement' education funding if serious reductions in spending levels are to be avoided? In view of the Minister's undertaking of 4 November 1976 that 'the Government will continue to supplement programs to meet unavoidable cost increases', will the Minister now give an undertaking that the Government will provide full cost supplementation to education funds to cover the reduction in spending levels caused by the devaluation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. On 14 September of this year I asked a question of the Minister regarding the ineligibility for long service leave of certain Commonwealth Public Service employees, in particular tea ladies, some of whom have more than IS years continuous service working up to 7 hours daily. The information later supplied by the Minister did not relate specifically to this area of employment. As tea ladies are now threatened with retrenchment and hence unemployment by the introduction of automatic machines, I ask again: Will the Minister undertake a specific investigation into the leave entitlement of tea ladies and people in similar employment with a view to amending the legislation, if necessary, to give them the long service leave they have undoubtedly earned? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Committee on Child Care met since the Child Care Office was formed. 
If it has met, has it made any recommendations to the Minister on the priority of child care projects in the Territory. 
If it has not met, can the Minister inform the Senate whether it is likely to be convened in the near future and whether it is to retain its function of recommending priority programs to the Minister. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and it refers to the Government's proposed legislation for management initiated retirement in the Commonwealth Public Service, that is, arbitrary and selective sacking of public servants 55 years of age and over. To what extent have the relevent unions been consulted about this provision? Has the Government conducted any surveys of Commonwealth Public Service employees in the 55 to 65 years age group to determine the numbers involved, their working capacity and their wishes regarding retirement? If not, what is the basis for the Government's assumption that sacking people in the over-55 age group would lead to an increase in efficiency and a rational reduction in staff numbers in the Commonwealth Public Service? 
-The Senate is debating a Bill for an Act to amend the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Act 1971. As the Leader of the Opposition.  (Senator Wriedt)  has pointed out, the Opposition does not oppose this Bill. I was prompted to rise to speak on the Bill by some of the extravagant claims made for it by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  in his second reading speech. Before I proceed, I feel that I must comment on some of the more wildly inaccurate statements made by the  speaker  who preceded me in this debate, the honourable senator from the Northern Territory.  Senator Kilgariff  devoted some of his speech to telling the Senate how, if the Labor Government had been allowed to continue, economic chaos would have ensued. I submit that the facts relating to the Australian economy today are such that they cannot be interpreted to mean anything other than economic chaos. 
The factors in the economic situation today are different from those which would have come about had a Labor Government been permitted to continue, in the words of  Senator Kilgariff.  The facts of our economic situation as it is today, which has been brought about after 12 months of a Liberal-National Country Party coalition, are these: Unemployment has risen by 40 000 people; the deficit about which we heard so much from  Mr Fraser,  the Leader of the Liberal Party, during the election campaign, the deficit which had to be reduced at all costs, the deficit which for the coalition Parties was the most telling evidence of the incompetence of the Labor Government, is now at $5,000m, which is greater than it ever was under a Labor Government. Business investment, which was guaranteed by the coalition Parties and was the reason for which the business community voted for those Parties, is at its lowest point for the last 4 years. The most recent blow to the Australian economy by the present Government is devaluation, which has resulted in a situation where the Australian currency is at its lowest value for 5 years. I submit that those 4 factors- unemployment, the deficit, low business investment and the low standing of Australian currency- add up to economic chaos, and that that economic chaos has resulted from the economic strategies of the Fraser Government and bears no resemblance to the situation which would have prevailed had the Labor Government continued. 
I wish to turn my attention to the Australian Capital Territory. Because the Australian Capital Territory, along with the Northern Territory, is one of the prime beneficiaries of the Bill before the Senate, I have no quarrel with the measures to provide a level of exemption from payroll tax equal to that which will apply in New South Wales from 1 January 1977. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  in introducing this legislation gave as his reason for adopting this strategy the intention that payroll tax considerations should not affect the choice of location of business activity between the Australian Capital Territory and adjacent parts of New South Wales. It may be true to say that, as a result of this Bill, in respect of payroll tax exemption business in the Australian Capital Territory will be on an equal footing with business in the surrounding States. However, that would be the only respect in which business in the Australian Capital Territory is not at a serious disadvantage compared with business in the adjacent States. 
We only have to look at the current employment figures, which were released within the last couple of days for the Australian Capital Territory to see the point in what I am saying. Unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory rose by 458 people to 3695 people last month according to figures released on 3 December 1976. This is a record for the region. With unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory at a record level it seems to me to be a rather feeble attempt on the part of the Government to attract business to the Australian Capital Territory only by way of amending the payroll tax provisions. The Government has failed to make any effort to create employment in the Australian Capital Territory and thereby to create conditions under which business may be attracted to the Aus.tralian Capital Territory. Why should investors turn their attention to the Australian Capital Territory and invest money here when business is at an all time low and unemployment at an all-time high? There must be many other parts of Australia which are not in quite as bad a position as the Australian Capital Territory and which will attract business ahead of the Australian Capital Territory. 
In September of this year we thought there might be some improvement in the situation in the Australian Capital Territory when the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  announced the creation of a new employment scheme, called a 'relocation assistance scheme', which was som'e sort of a lateintheday reversal of the Government's opposition to the earlier Labor schemes- the National Employment and Training scheme and the Regional Employment Development scheme. At the time when this relocation assistance scheme was announced I publicly asked of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  how this scheme would apply in the Australian Capital Territory which, like many other country regions, suffers from structural unemployment. I received no reply from either Minister. In my close observation and monitoring of the business and employment situation in the Australian Capital Territory I have seen no evidence that the Australian Capital Territory has benefited one iota from the much vaunted relocation scheme announced in September. 
If we look at the figures provided by those people who perhaps have the most personal interest in what is happening in the construction industry in the Australian Capital Territory- I refer to the Master Builders Association of the Australian Capital Territory- we find a very disastrous picture indeed. I quote the figures provided by the Master Builders Association rather than those of the relevant unions because I believe that this Government might be more responsive to the views of the capitalists- the investors and the employers- than it would be to the views of the employees in the construction industry. Figures published fairly recently by the Master Builders Association indicate that its earlier forecast that by the middle of this yearthat is, by June 1976- some 4000 fewer jobs would be available in the Canberra construction industry than were available at the same time last year have been borne out by what has happened. Regular surveys and samplings confirm that the reduction in employment in the Canberra construction industry has been of that order. That is to say that by the middle of this year 4000 fewer jobs were available in the Canberra construction industry than were available in the year before. The Master Builders Association said that the concentration of unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory in the construction industry was particularly high. The Master Builders Association goes on to say that it is generally held in the industry that official unemployment figures do not reflect the real situation in Canberra. It said: 
Firstly, unemployment was largely confined to the private sector which was about one third of the work force. Secondly, quite a number of people left Canberra in search of work elsewhere rather than register as unemployed. 
So the position is even worse than statistics suggest. Similarly in the opportunities for training for employment which were once provided by the construction industry there was a dramatic reduction. Figures referring to the group apprenticeship scheme run by the Master Builders Association show that from 1970 to 1973 there was 100 per cent acceptance of applicants under the scheme. In 1 974 that figure dropped to 70 per cent, in 1975 to 50 per cent but in 1976, the year of the government of big business which knew how to get the economy back on the rails, only 13 per cent of applicants under the group apprenticeship scheme were accepted. 
Similarly, when the Master Builders Association conducted a survey of architectural and engineering consultants to see how much work was available and was expected to be available during this year, it received 36 responses and of those, 1 4 designers replied that they had no work in hand to go to tender in the industry for the year ending 30 June 1 977. 
I turn now to the housing section of the construction industry which, of course, has always been the main section of the construction industry in the Australian Capital Territory. The report by the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry tells us that the estimated capacity in the Australian Capital Territory for 1976-77 was about 4900 dwellings but that the actual level of dwelling construction was expected to be only 3600 dwellings for 1976-77. 

 - Senator Wright expresses some scepticism about the figures I have just announced but he is not renowned for his knowledge of the details of the economy and needs of the Australian Capital Territory. There are fewer houses being built than there are people wanting to buy them and there are fewer flats available than there are people wanting to rent them. Both of these situations have drastically worsened during the year of the Fraser Government. 

 - Senator Wright asks a question which really he should be directing to the Minister for the Capital Territory. If there are vacant houses in the Australian Capital Territory, and I doubt that there are, it is because the rent increases imposed by this Government have been so substantial that some people cannot afford even to rent them and are living in caravans and similar accommodation. Another matter I want to raise is the unwarranted bouquet given by the Minister for Industry and Commerce in his second reading speech to the honourable member for Canberra and the senator for the Australian Capital Territory  Senator Knight.  The Minister said: 
In considering these changed tax arrangements, the Government has before it a series of detailed submissions from the honourable member for Canberra and  Senator Knight.  The decision to introduce this Bill owes much to the effective representations made by the honourable member for Canberra, as well as Government senators. 
I have before me the 13 submissions, made by the 2 gentlemen referred to by the Minister, on employment and business in the Australian 
Capital Territory. It appears to me that in fact none of these recommendations has been implemented by the present Government and that the submissions of  Senator Knight  and the member for Canberra have been ignored. I shall go through them briefly so that honourable senators will realise that I am speaking factually. Their first submission was that special consideration be given to the provision of employment opportunities in the Public Service. Honourable senators will be aware that there has been a constant reduction of staff positions available in the Public Service. Their second submission was that urgent consideration be given to the more extensive use of part time employment in the Public Service. Honourable senators will also be aware that many part time employees of the Public Service have been retrenched. Their third submission was that consideration be given to the transfer of some sections of the Public Service to Canberra in the near future. This has not happened. Its fourth consideration- a rather relevant one this week- is that consideration was to be given to lower voluntary retirement ages in the Public Service. The Government, when it introduced its superannuation legislation for the Commonwealth Public Service this year, refused to admit the clause allowing for voluntary early retirement, but it now has plans to introduce compulsory, arbitrary, selective sacking of public servants  55  years of age and over - 

 - Senator Wright wonders what this has to do with the Bill before us. It all has to do with the fact that business is worse in the Australian Capital Territory than it has ever been. It is worse because people do not have money to spend as a result of the various measures taken by the present Government. The claim made by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  in his second reading speech that the payroll tax amendment will improve business in the Australian Capital Territory and will solve all the employment and business problems is as ludicrous as is the Government's claim that submissions put by  Senator Knight  and the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  have been accepted. I have given some examples where the submissions put by these gentlemen have, in fact, been totally ignored. There are more but perhaps I will not continue. However, one which I would like to mention, is a submission to assist home buyers and to stimulate the housing and construction industry by increasing Commissioner for Housing loans from  $15,000  to  $18,000  and introducing some shading in of higher interest rates on the Commissioner for Housing loans which have been announced. That was one of the submissions by the Liberal representatives of the Australian Capital Territory. It, also, was totally ignored. 
The situation is that the amount available under Commissioner for Housing loans has remained at  $15,000  but that conditions by which one would qualify for such a loan have been made so stringent that people on very low incomes cannot qualify. We have an absurd situation in which the Department of the Capital Territory Housing Branch has had to put out a statement saying that those  $15,000  housing loans have not been taken up. This has happened in a situation where people are desperate for housing and desperate to buy their own homes but, because this Government introduced such stringent provisions for eligibility and increased the interest rates to such an extent, even people on low incomes, who are paying huge rents and who would do anything to get into a home of their own, are unable to do so. Yet we have a situation in which so-called cheap Commissioner for Housing loans are going begging for want of people to take them up. 
That is the sort of economic chaos that has been brought about. That is the sort of serious situation which, really, wil not be ameliorated in any significant way by the legislation before the House. The real reason for the problems faced by business in this Territory is not, I submit, the fact that it had a slightly higher payroll tax commitment than business in the surrounding States. The Opposition does not oppose the provisions which will give greater exemptions to small businesses in the Australian Capital Territory. We are happy to see any provision which might improve the situation in the Australian Capital Territory. We accept that by making the payroll tax exemption equivalent to that of the surrounding States, there has been a very slight gesture towards helping small business in the Territory. However, we submit that the real reason for business failures in the Territory is the reduction in real incomes of all wage earners in the Territory through drastic increases by up to  100  per cent in the rents on Government houses. I have quoted figures before in the Senate regarding this matter but I will not repeat them. 
Other reasons for the failure of businesses include drastic and unnotified increases in rates of all kinds; very drastic increases in interest rates from 4% per cent to  9V4  per cent applying to people buying houses from the Government; the Medibank levy, which, of course, is nothing but a huge increase in personal taxation and is recognised now to be so by the electorate; the very rapid increase in bus fares and the introduction of school bus fares to school children in the Australian Capital Territory which, again, has taken a toll on the real disposable income of families with several children in the Australian Capital Territory. There has been the abolition of the price control mechanism which was quite necessary in the Australian Capital Territory because of the peculiar position we are in whereby most of our consumer products, including foodstuffs, are brought in from the States. It was really necessary to have a prices justification control mechanism here locally, otherwise people bringing goods from the States could easily claim that the transport costs and so on justified huge markups. That mechanism was abolished unilaterally by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley),  with consultation with nobody. Since it has been abolished the prices of bread, beer and petrol have gone up. 
Of course there have been many incursions into the industrial conditions of people working in the Public Service, one of the most notable being the reduction in overtime. I think we have a domestic example of that here in Parliament House. Drivers who were accustomed regularly to earning a certain amount of overtime as a part of their income have been deprived of that overtime and at the same time taxis have been engaged to drive members and senators home. I fail to see where the economic sense is in that. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman) Senator Ryan,  it is rather difficult to see how these matters relate to this Bill dealing with payroll tax. I have given you a fair bit of latitude. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I understand that it may be hard for some honourable senators who are not familiar with the situation in the Australian Capital Territory to understand how all these measures which the Government has taken have brought about a very poor situation for business in the Australian Capital Territory. I shall conclude my remarks by saying that we welcome the payroll tax provisions before us because they will improve, to a small extent, the situation of small businesses in the Australian Capital Territory. The relevance of the other things I have said is that many other factors need to be changed before small businesses in the Australian Capital Territory can flourish. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people seek justice in this land which is rightfully theirs. 
That they cannot begin to have their freedom and independence until all discriminatory laws are abolished and land rights are granted. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that land rights be granted now, on these conditions: 
Immediate ownership rights by tribal groups of land they continue to occupy. 
That all existing lands designated as Aboriginal reserves be handed over to the respective Aboriginal groups, and that the land be effectively controlled and owned by the Aborigines in that area under their law and customs. 
That Aboriginal lands include total rights to all natural resources, and that present mining and prospecting be suspended until negotiations are held with Aborigines. 
That land ownership and control be legally protected and regarded as inviolable. 
That Aboriginal people be compensated for the loss of all Aboriginal designated reserves, tribal lands, and other lands revoked by the Commonwealth and State governments. 
That before compensation is decided negotiations be held to acquire those lands plus any other lands deemed necessary by the respective Aboriginal groups and tribes for their survival and benefits. 
That any 'Crown Lands' which are of traditional or sacred significance to Aborigines be ceded to them in perpetuity. 
That all sites of anthropological or traditional significance to Aboriginals other than those on reserves or crown land be opened to the use of Aborigines without fees or constraints. 
And that legislation be passed to abolish the Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Acts and their regulation and by-laws. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 9 citizens of the Australian Capital Territory: 
To the  President  and the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That many Australians are concerned at the recent outbreak of racial riots and killings in South Africa. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
1 ) Call upon the South African Government to eliminate apartheid and racial discrimination. 
2 ) Withdraw the Australian Trade Commissioners from South Africa in accordance with the UN resolution 341 1G (December 1975). 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to  Senator Durack  in his capacity as the representative in this chamber of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters. The Minister will be aware of considerable publicity surrounding the return of the former Australian Ambassador to Yugoslavia,  Mr Malcolm  Booker.  Mr Booker,  a career diplomat who has published a book on Australia's foreign policy entitled  The Last Domino,  has not been offered a job in the Department of Foreign Affairs and has been subjected to strong pressures by his Department to retire. I ask: Why has  Mr Booker  not been offered a job? Does the Minister agree that under section 72b (4) of the Public Service Act,  Mr Booker  has a statutory right to reintegration in his Department by an appointment of such status and salary as are determined by the Public Service Board, having regard to the office previously vacated by him and the period of his appointment as a representative in another country of the Government of Australia? Can the Minister confirm that  Mr Booker  has been told by his Department- apparently in defiance of section 72b (4)- that he must retire or accept a job at the level he was at in 1963? Can the Minister explain why a request from  Mr Booker  to the Board in May of this year for confirmation of his rights under section 72b (4) has not been properly answered? Finally, does the Minister agree that the independence and professionalism of Australia's foreign service depend on the rights of foreign affairs officers under the Act being fully respected? 
I draw the attention of the chamber to the second piece of legislation before us tonight, the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill (No. 2). The Opposition will not be opposing the Bill, although we will be moving some amendments. I, and I believe other Opposition senators, have been approached by members of the Aboriginal community throughout Australia who have expressed some concern about this Bill. I will outline briefly the nature of that concern. Some Aboriginal Australians have expressed a fear that there is some element of compulsion in this legislation whereby Aboriginal groups will be forced to register or to incorporate under this legislation. They have expressed the fear that groups already incorporated under State legislation or local council provisions will be forced to change and to incorporate under this Federal legislation. On examination of the Bill, I found no suggestion of any compulsion on Aboriginal groups to incorporate under this Bill. However, I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  when replying to this debate, will clarify for the benefit of those Aboriginal people who have expressed some concern the fact that there will be no element of compulsion on Aboriginal people to incorporate under this Bill; that they will have the choice of incorporation under the Federal legislation and that it will be their choice. That is all I wish to say in respect of that Bill. 
I now make some remarks on the major piece of legislation before us tonight, the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. I agree with one of the honourable senators from the Government side who preceded me,  Senator Baume,  that this is an historic Bill; but it is at that point that my agreement with  Senator Baume  stops. I must say, for the record, that I was outraged to hear  Senator Baume  accuse the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Keeffe,  of making a mean and ungenerous speech when he rose to lead for the Opposition in the debate. I point out that  Senator Keeffe  has spent a lifetime getting to know and to understand the Aboriginal people, their values and their culture. In stark contrast,  Senator Baume  boasted of his association with the Institute of Aboriginal Studies and his membership of a couple of committees which have been concerned with Aboriginal affairs. He gave us a quick and very slick white man's view of the historical situation over the last two hundred years. He pointed out to us the various disadvantages experienced by Aboriginal people during that time, a contribution which was quite unnecessary because all of us here are quite aware of the serious disadvantages suffered by the Aboriginal people. 
I say to  Senator Baume  that his selfcongratulations about the importance of the Bill and the pride that he expressed on so many occasions during his speech about the significance of the Bill were quite unjustified and, I might add, quite tasteless. If  Senator Baume  is serious about his interest in establishing the rights of Aboriginal people to secure the land which they properly own, perhaps he will be prepared to support the amendments which will be moved by the Opposition at a later stage to improve the probability that the Aboriginal people will indeed be able to exercise those rights. If  Senator Baume  does accept the amendments, perhaps then he will have something to be proud of. 
I am not proud of this Bill. Indeed, I am not proud of anything which European Australians have done in relation to Aboriginal Australians. There is no cause for pride by anybody, either in this chamber or outside it, on that subject. I do not want to out-do Government senators, who used rhetorical flourishes and self-flagellation in their expressions of guilt about the past and made extravagant and melodramatic promises about the future, but I do want to draw attention to some of the deficiencies in the Bill before the Senate. As it stands, the Bill is a great improvement on the Government's land rights Bill introduced by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in another place in June 1976. The Opposition accepts that. It was claimed by certain Aboriginal persons that that Bill was a sell-out to the mining interests in this country, and the evidence for that is to be found in the amendments which the Government subsequently moved. 
When the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs reintroduced the Bill with 42 amendments there were improvements in 2 areas- the reduction in the rights of the Northern Territory to make ordinances interfering with the rights of Aboriginals over their land, and some slight increase in the negotiating powers of Aboriginal persons with the mining companies. However, I do not think we should be overwhelmed with gratitude because the Government has seen fit to introduce these amendments. In fact, the pattern of presenting a Bill and subsequently amending it is one with which we are becoming very familiar on this side of the chamber. It seems that the Government has evolved a technique whereby it presents legislation which is quite outrageous and quite unacceptable to the public at large and to the particular interest groups who will be affected by the legislation. The Government then permits a period of lobbying and discussion on the Bill and comes back to the Parliament with amendments which are certainly an improvement on the outrageous legislation it started with but which still fall a long way short of what the Government should have done in the first place. That has happened with a number of pieces of legislation, particularly broadcasting, funeral benefits and now Aboriginal land rights. Although there have been improvements, those improvements do not provide strongly enough for the rights of Aboriginals over their land. They do not recapture the spirit of the Woodward report, and the legislation is still quite inferior in specific ways to the legislation introduced by Labor last year. 
I should like to comment generally on some of the major deficiences in the Bill. The Opposition will be moving specific amendments at a later stage and I will speak in more detail then about the deficiencies. One of the major deficiences of the Bill as it stands is that the Aboriginals' right of veto over the development of minerals by rnining companies is still too restrictive. It is still restricted to new exploration licenses. The Aboriginal people have no veto rights over the development of areas where exploration licences have been granted in the past. The most important example of that undue restriction is in the Booroloola area, where the Aboriginal people will have no right of veto over the development of any minerals which the Mount Isa company wishes to develop. That is quite shameful, given the timing of this legislation and the things that have preceded it. What happened at Booroloola was that the Aboriginal people had started making claims to vacant Crown land. Had the claims been successful, the mining company would have been forced to obtain Aboriginal consent before there could be any development. However, the claims were stopped in August of this year by order of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The claims had actually been started and a judge and the parties were ready to proceed. After the order from the Prime Minister to stop the hearing of the Booroloola case, the Commonwealth Government entered into an agreement with Mount Isa Mines Ltd. The terms of that agreement are not yet public, but one can readily assume that they will provide a right of lease to the Mount Isa company and a guarantee of mining in that area. That is a particularly shameful example of the Government manipulating the time lag between the claims started by the Aboriginal people in the Booroloola area and the introduction of this legislation. 
Similarly, in the case of the Ranger project, through the legislation before us this evening the Government has sought to prevent the Aboriginal people from having a veto over the right to develop minerals which may be found there, and the Opposition will be moving an amendment in that respect. On the subject of the Aboriginal right of veto in relation to mining, I point out that the Commonwealth Government will still have power to mine Aboriginal lands under the Atomic Energy Act. Further, Aboriginal consent will not be required for mining oil or petroleum pursuant to the provisions of the Petroleum Prospecting and Mining Ordinance 1954. The national interest provision, which is being reintroduced in the present legislation, states that decisions overruling an Aboriginal veto in the national interest will have to come before the Parliament and can be overruled by either 
House. That is a very welcome provision. However, it does not compensate for the fact that the Aboriginal people will have veto rights only over new licences. 
The second matter which is of concern to members of the Opposition and, more seriously, to the Aboriginal people, relates to complementary legislation. The Federal Government has failed to accept its full constitutional responsibility, which it gained as a result of the 1967 referendum on Aboriginal rights, to regulate and administer all matters affecting Aboriginal people. It is disappointing and distressing that 4 important matters have been allowed by the Commonwealth Government, which had the responsibility, to go to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly for complementary legislation. They are, firstly, the power to declare and control Aboriginal sacred sites, about which a lot has already been said this evening; secondly, the issue of entry permits to Aboriginal land; thirdly, the access to territorial seas adjoining Aboriginal lands; and fourthly, the control of entry to pastoral properties. 
I appreciate that clause 73. of the Bill does impose some limitation on the powers of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in these matters, but only to the extent that the Northern Territory ordinances are capable of operating concurrently with the Act. I remind honourable senators the Woodward report recommended that all these matters should be matters for Commonwealth legislation. Although the Bill provides that the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is to be consulted by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly when it is introducing ordinances on this matter, we do not consider that that provision for consultation is a guarantee that the views of the Federal Minister will be implemented or that the rights and desires of the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory will have priority when the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is proceeding in these matters. 
The provisions in the Bill for complementary legislation by the Northern Territory are contrary to the Woodward report; they are contrary to the Labor Bill of 1975, and they are contrary to all the representations from Aboriginals from the Northern Territory which members of the Opposition have received. They are also contrary to a report of the bipartisan Senate committee which inquired into the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and which recommended a redrafting of this Bill now before us to re-establish Commonwealth power over all Aboriginal land. I suggest that those Government senators who signed the report of that committee are honour bound to support the amendments of the Opposition on this matter when they are moved. 
The third respect in which the legislation is unsatisfactory is that it leaves out the needs basis for land claims; that is, it hands claims based on needs back to the Department of the Northern Territory. These claims based on need will not be heard by the land commissioner in the same way that claims based on tradition will be considered. This is a serious omission and one which could have tragic consequences. For example, it will mean that the fringe dwellers of Alice Springs will have to wait a very long time- maybe forever- to get land rights. The Department of the Northern Territory has been extremely slow in processing claims to date. According to the view put to members of the Opposition by Aboriginals from the Northern Territory the Department has not been particularly sympathetic. We consider that this provision removing the needs claim from the jurisdiction of the lands commissioner is also contrary to the Woodward report and more importantly is contrary to the wishes as expressed by the Aboriginal people of central Australia. I think also it is a sellout because it is avoiding the most difficult area. Legislation giving Aboriginals formal rights over reserves is not a complex matter unless minerals come into the question. Legislation providing for land claims on the basis of need is a very complex matter- a difficult matter. It seems to me quite shameful that the Government has pushed this difficult, complex and sensitive area out of the land commissioner's area of responsibility and back to the Department of the Northern Territory. 
I have talked about need and I mentioned the town dwellers of Alice Springs. I should like to make a couple of comments from personal observation. I cannot possibly claim to have the personal knowledge of the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory that previous speakers have had. I would not suggest for one moment that my personal experiences in that regard have been anything like as extensive as theirs. However, I visited Alice Springs for the first time earlier this year. I found it the most shocking experience I have ever had. I have seen humans living in poverty in many places in the world- in Asia, Europe, the United States of America and South America. I have never seen anything to compare with the poverty, the degradation- if I may say so- and the hopelessness of the people living around Alice Springs. I found it difficult to comprehend that those Australians- they are 
Australians like myself and like members of this chamber-were forced to live in those conditions. I say 'forced' because conversations with these people revealed that they were as aware of the awful conditions in which they were living and as unhappy about them as any person could be. I was particularly distressed by the situation of the children and even more distressed by the concern about the children expressed by the children's parents. I submit that the need of these people would make their claims to land perhaps even stronger than the claims of traditional people who are still living on their own land and, to some extent, in their own way. I hope that when the time comes for a vote on the amendments on this matter of need honourable senators opposite will reconsider their position and judge that need is at least as important a basis for a claim as tradition. 
There are some other areas where the legislation is unsatisfactory to the Aboriginal people. One has already been mentioned- the control of roads that go through Commonwealth property. The demands of the Aboriginal people in respect to this matter have not been met. I think my colleague  Senator Robertson  has gone into this matter in some detail so I shall not repeat the circumstances. Again this is an area in which the legislation must be improved. Of course another point is the refusal of the Government to extend the freeze on unalienated Crown land beyond the deadline of 3 1 December 1976. My colleague  Senator Keeffe  referred to this. Despite the subsequent hysterical and unjustified criticisms of  Senator Baume  I think he made a strong case for the Government deciding to extend the freeze on unalienated Crown land beyond that deadline so that the Aboriginal people may organise themselves to make claims under the legislation before us. 
As I have said, I do not speak from great personal knowledge or experience of the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory, but I am convinced from the correspondence and the personal lobbying that has gone on during the last few months that the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory are not satisfied that this Bill represents a guarantee that they will be able to exercise the rights over the land that they own. To support that contention I refer to a letter which has been written to the Editor of the  Age,  although I understand not yet published, by David Anderson, who is the Executive Member for Information and Communications with the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. This is rather a long letter and I do not intend to read it out. In it  Mr Anderson,  who is an elected representative of the Aboriginal people, points out the many unsatisfactory aspects of the Bill and the ways in which the Bill must be improved if it is to give a guarantee of land rights to the Aboriginal people. He also makes some constructive suggestions based on the land rights legislation that has been implemented in Canada. I seek leave to have this letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I thank the Senate. We recognise that improvements have been made in this legislation. I think the important ones are these: Firstly, the national interest decisions which override an Aboriginal veto must once again go before both Houses of Parliament with the right of either House of Parliament to disallow the Government's decision and to reinstate the Aboriginal veto. We welcome that. Secondly, the powers of the land councils which were set out in the 1975 Bill have been restored with the exception of their right to be involved in needs claims. With that exception we recognise the reinstatement of those rights. Thirdly, Aboriginal traditional owners who have to live outside their artificial State borders are now catered for in this Bill by being eligible for membership of land trusts and land councils. We welcome that. In summary, there are some important matters outstanding which have not been included in the Bill and which should be included. They include the restoration of the full role of the land commissioner, as outlined in the Woodward report; the reintroduction of the needs claims as cases which must be heard by the land commissioner rather than through the Lands Board of the Northern Territory; the withdrawal of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly from all land right decision making; and control over roads through Aboriginal land. 
In conclusion I would like to say that I find it a rather tragic irony that, while we all say that we want Aborigines to have the land that they own and while we all say that we want legislation that will give them this land, we find ourselves going through an extremely convoluted and technical series of Bills, amendments, amended Bills and debates which are a product of our political system in order to say to the Aborigines: 'If you want to have what you properly own, these are the conditions that you will have to fulfil'. I hope that that irony has not escaped other members of this chamber. I think  Senator Kilgariff  mentioned it. I also find it a sad reflection upon the current attitude of European Australians to Aborigines that there is only one Aboriginal member of Parliament here to debate this legislation, which is of such major significance to his people. 
I accept that criticism,  Senator Baume.  I would say that all of us here are paternalistic in our attitude to a lesser or greater degree. What we have to seek to do is to make that paternalism as minimal as possible. There is no occasion this evening for congratulating ourselves on what a wonderful thing we are doing for the Aboriginal people. What we are doing tonight is taking a long overdue, long awaited first step which is extremely modest and which is quite incomplete. I for one feel no sense of self congratulation about the Bill before us or even about the Bill as amended according to the Opposition's endeavours to have it amended. I hope that those supporters of the Government who have expressed such strong emotional support for the rights of Aborigines will give action to those sentiments by supporting the amendments which we will be moving solely to improve the rights of Aborigines under this legislation. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In an earlier question on notice I asked the Minister what steps the Government had taken to implement the Racial Discrimination Act and I was told in reply that all parts of the Act became operative on 3 1 October of this year. I ask: How can that answer be correct, since the conciliation committees provided for in section 23 of the Act have not yet been established and the Community Relations Council provided for in section 41 of the Act has not yet been established? Further, when will the first report of the Commissioner for Community Relations be tabled in the Parliament? Finally, is there any truth in the rumour that the office of the Commissioner is to be abolished and the functions of that office moved back to the Attorney-General 's Department? 
I am surprised to hear  Senator Missen  quote the very same extracts from the Woodward report as I had intended to quote at this point of the Committee stage because it seems to me that any reasonable interpretation of the extracts which were just quoted would lead one to the conclusion that Justice Woodward did intend that needs claims rather than traditional claims be included in this Bill. The purpose of the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is to give effect to those recommendations of  Mr Justice  Woodward, which were that the Aboriginal Land Commissioner have jurisdiction to make recommendations relating to grants of land for Aboriginals within towns.  Senator Missen  has said we must weigh up all the possibilities, we must look at all the people affected and so on. I do not think that is what we should do at all. What we should be doing is facilitating the ability of Aboriginal people, whether they be town dwellers or reserve dwellers, to make land rights claims. Unless the Government accepts these amendments the fringe dwellers in places like Alice Springs will not be able to make land claims under this Bill and nothing that  Senator Missen  has said will change that fact. 
Several of us spoke in the second reading debate about the needs of people living in fringe areas of Alice Springs and I do not think there is any need to repeat them, but if Government supporters who spoke at such length about their concern to rectify the wrongs done to Aboriginal people and to make up to the Aboriginal people for the destruction of their culture and their traditional way of life meant what they said for one minute then I fail to see how they can refuse to support this amendment because it is those people, as Justice Woodward said, who have been moved away from their traditional land in camps around Alice Springs and similar places who are the worst victims of the racism of this country. The people living in their traditional way on their traditional land are not as badly disadvantaged as the people in the fringe areas of Alice Springs. I fail to comprehend any logic from any Government supporter who says on the one hand 'We are concerned in this Bill to rectify the mistakes of the past; we are concerned to give Aboriginals a way of establishing their land claims' and in the same breath says 'but of course this Bill does not do that; it will be done in some other way'. The proper way for all Aboriginal people to make land claims should be through the Land Commissioner as Justice Woodward recommends. 
I want to make just one other point, which  Senator Missen  has half made for me, by quoting again from the Woodward report, and that is that the number of people involved in these camps around the towns is very small- 2374 Aborigines in greater Darwin and 1269 in Alice Springs. It is a small number of very disadvantaged people about whom we are talking. Why is it that this small number of people cannot be given the protection and the facility offered in the legislation before us? It is not as if there are going to be thousands and thousands of people in towns making claims which will be very difficult to resolve. Some of this small number of people are already living on vacant Crown land around Alice Springs- land that presumably nobody else wants or that nobody else has been using. It seems to me to be quite inhumane to say that these few Aboriginal people living around Alice Springs cannot under this Bill lay claims to the land on which they have been living in some cases- I am sure  Senator Bonner  is aware of this -for 20 or 30 years. Certainly it is not land to which they have traditional rights but it is the land on which they have been living, some of them for their whole lifetime- particularly the younger members of the tribes that are living in this way. Why cannot those few Aboriginals make claims under this Bill for which Government senators have made such claims and which I believe would if the provisions were extended to these people offer a lot more protection than would be available to them in making land claims through the Department of the Northern Territory. 
I do not intend to speak at length on other amendments which will be moved by the Opposition, but I would like to say very clearly for the record that it is on this point that the sincerity of Government senators' intentions in regard to the Aboriginal people will be tested. If Government senators cannot see that acceptance of this amendment will immeasurably improve the Bill then I think there is no sincerity in anything they have said up to this point. I repeat, a small number of Aboriginal people are involved. It is the most disadvantaged section of the Aboriginal community which is involved. To support these amendments would be to support the spirit of the Woodward report and would enable the fringe dwelling Aboriginal people to have the same legislative rights as people living in traditional areas. I exhort Government senators at this stage to look seriously at the amendment and to support it. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It also is a question about the Medibank levy. When the Government introduced the Medibank levy, it insisted that it was very important that the community know exactly what the Medibank system was costing. Why then do the pay slips of Commonwealth employees fail to show the levy charged as a separate deduction? Does the fact that the levy is included in the general tax deduction demonstrate that, as far as the Department of the Treasury and the Taxation Office are concerned, the levy is simply an increase in personal taxation? Following  Senator Martin's  question about the Medibank levy being charged on deceased estates, will the Minister now agree that the so-called Medibank levy is in fact an increase in direct personal taxation and different from other tax charges only in that it is charged more selectively and less equitably? 
The Senate is debating the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. The Opposition is opposing this legislation for a number of reasons. It is opposing this legislation partly because it is unsatisfactory in many respects but mostly because of the disgraceful events that led up to it. While the legislation is not particularly pernicious or sinister, the events that led up to it in its present form certainly are. Some of the contributions made by Government speakers to this debate have led us away from the context in which the legislation has come before us. I should like to take the opportunity of reminding the Senate how we came to have this Bill before us this evening. The hostility of the political parties in government at present to the Australian Broadcasting Commission is very well known. It was first stated in its most direct and crudest form during the election campaign. My colleague,  Senator James  McClelland, has referred to that. In the Senate early in the parliamentary session- I think it was some time in March- the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  gave us a clear indication of what the ABC was to expect from the Fraser Government. The words of  Senator Withers  have already been quoted in this debate. I shall not quote them again. In short, he said that the ABC was full of left wing propagandists and the Coalition Parties were going to clean them up. 
Following this stated intention the Government took action to do just that. It set up an inquiry into broadcasting, a fact to which in itself we would not have objected but it set up a secret inquiry into public broadcasting- almost a contradiction in terms, one might think. That same inquiry was to be a very quick inquiry. The public was to have no access to it. The industries involved were to have no access to it. The staff who work in broadcasting, commercial and public, would have no access to it. Indeed, it was a quick inquiry. It was finished in October. After a few weeks of uncertainty and leaks and denials from the Government that various things were in the report- which subsequently turned out to be in it- the report was tabled. Quickly following upon the tabling of the report and certainly after totally inadequate time for discussion of the report legislation was introduced last week into the House of Representatitves. I admit that it was not the legislation that is before us tonight. Very much worse and very much more sinister legislation was introduced. It would have been a precedent of lasting consequence in that it would h ave sacked all existing members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It would have wiped out with one blow a public institution which has been in existence for over 40 years. There were many other undesirable aspects in this legislation but the single aspect to which I have just referred caused such a public outcry from all sections of the community that that particular provision no longer exists in the legislation before us. 
The legislation that was introduced last week by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Robinson)  was not based on the Green report. After the Government had gone to the trouble of commissioning this secret and quick inquiry and after the Green Committee had produced a report which, in fact, contained a lot of interesting and useful information and constructive suggestions for restructuring broadcasting in this country the Green report did not turn out to be the basis of the legislation which the Government threw out. There was very little indication of what the legislation was based on, other than the prejudice, paranoia and ideological hostility of the present Government to public institutions. 
Criticism of the legislation was widespread. It came from a very broad cross-section of the community. I think that the number of petitions that have been presented in this chamber relating to the ABC would demonstrate that. 
Debate interrupted. 
I put one question to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack).  I have put the Minister on notice about this matter. I am concerned about whether part time employees of the Commonwealth Public Service, in particular tea ladies, will be eligible for long service leave on a pro rata basis under this legislation. I would like clarification on that aspect from the Minister. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many pre-schools in the Australian Capital Territory are not operating the full 8 sessions each week. 
Does the Minister intend to leave these pre-schools under-utilised or will some be made available for other forms of child care or other community use. 
-I present the following petition from 120 citizens of the Australian Capital Territory. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That residents of the suburb of Fraser, in the Australian Capital Territory are deeply concerned at the lack of adequate educational facilities to be made available to our primary school aged children. 
That plans to remove children daily to other suburbs will cause overcrowding, will force parents to private transport or pay bus levies, and will make a mockery of the frequently quoted A.C.T. Schools Authority policy that primary school students should have access to a school within reasonable walking distance of their homes. 
That population trends in Fraser and adjoining suburbs more than adequately prove the need for a separate primary school in each of these suburbs. 
That a primary school in the suburb would provide an important focus for an area which currently lacks any identity as a community. 
That plans to distribute Fraser students between two to four different schools in adjoining areas may well frustrate the social development of many ofthese young persons, forcing them into a situation where they must relate to two different sets of peers. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that Senate in Parliament assembled will take urgent steps to revise current plans for the education of our children with a view to the provision of a government primary school in Fraser. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Mr President, for reasons that I was outlining last night when the Senate was debating this legislation, the Opposition opposes these Bills. The Opposition does not find the legislation in its present form particularly offensive. However, we oppose the legislation because of the haste and secrecy with which the inquiry into broadcasting was held. We oppose it also because of the original form of the legislation which was totally obnoxious and because we believe that the community should have the opportunity to investigate thoroughly all of the issues involved in broadcasting before structural changes are implemented. 
Opposition to the legislation in its original form was very great. Members of the chamber will be aware of the outcry from the general public and from members of the Press, even the most conservative elements of the Press, who were highly critical of the attempt to destroy the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the original legislation. Opposition also came from academics and scholars, teachers, parents concerned with standards of children's broadcasting, ethnic groups which, in the period of the Whitlam Government for the first time had had access to broadcasting, and in particular, members of the staff of the ABC. 
I mention in passing that a strike was held in most States and the Territories by staff members of the ABC. It was a political strike against the Government's legislation. I think it can be fairly characterised as a political strike. It was a successful strike. It achieved its objectives. I believe that that strike had broad support from the community. It is interesting to note that political strikes can be just strikes; we have had an example of one. 
The attack by the Government on the Australian Broadcasting Commission, of which the legislation before us is just one part, was threefold. The first prong of the attack was the appointment of a partisan  chairman, Sir Henry  Bland, to the ABC. The second prong was the cutting of funds to the Commission. This has led to a most undesirable and unwelcome cutting of programs. The third prong is this legislation. I wish to make some comments on the appointment of  Sir Henry  Bland and on his subsequent actions. I know that these matters have been discussed by honourable senators on several occasions. However, I think the most recent evidence of the unsuitability of  Sir Henry  as  chairman  of an independent broadcasting commission came to our attention this week. I refer to the remarks that  Sir Henry  made when addressing the Northern Tasmanian Regional Advisory Committee of the ABC on 1 6 November 1 976. 
-I am aware that I am on the ABC. If I may say so, I think that that is most appropriate.  Sir Henry  said a number of quite surprising and distressing things in giving his views on the ABC and  Senator Missen,  who is aware of what  Sir Henry  said on that occasion, tried to defend the inappropriateness of the statements made by  Sir Henry  by saying that he was expressing only a personal opinion and that everyone is entitled to a personal opinion. I do not believe that somebody in what has become such a controversial position since  Sir Henry  became  Chairman  of the ABC and during a period when we have a government which has conducted an unceasing onslaught on the independence of the ABC, can address a meeting of people connected with the ABC and then have it claimed on his behalf afterwards that he was merely making personal statements. Those of us who go into public life and enter public debate lose the right to make merely personal statements on some issues. I certainly do not believe that  Sir Henry's  remarks on that occasion can be dismissed as being merely private and personal points of view. 
He said a number of disturbing things. I found one of the lines of attack which he took particularly distressing, and that was that all present and past commissioners, and by implication past  chairman,  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, management of the ABC and program makers in the ABC were totally irresponsible and unrealistic when it came to budgeting. I quote a couple of remarks from the transcript.  Sir Henry  said: 
I think the ABC news service has done a magnificent job. Now when it comes to programs they cost a lot of moneyand it apparently hasnt occurred to the ABC in the pastand it's the Commission I'm talking about- that it ought to be interested in what its programmers propose to do with the money that the Commonwealth Parliament gives it. 
A remark like that is nothing short of insulting to present and past commissioners and chairmen. I am sure that all those people were aware that programs cost money and that they had a responsibility to the Parliament to expend their allocation responsibly. Perhaps even more interesting was the statement which  Sir Henry  Bland made in respect of what the Government intended to do with the ABC. This statement was made on 16 November which honourable senators will be aware was before the first draft of the Government's broadcasting legislation was introduced. He said: 
It's beyond my comprehension that any government would wish to sweep away the commission's membership as it now stands . . . you know this assumption that governments and politicians . . . are cunning, sophisticated, shrewd people . . . it's one of the greatest pieces of journalistic construction that I know of, believed mostly by all of us . . . occasionally they've been known to be cunning and shrewd, but not very often. I think they thrive on being thought to be just that. But no government in its right senses would sweep away the membership of the ABC, because they know that to create that sort of precedent would be utterly disastrous. 
They were the words of  Sir Henry  Bland,  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the appointee of the Fraser Government, a few days before the same Government  introduced legislation which was designed to do just what  Sir Henry  Bland said was unthinkable and disastrous. That indicates a total breakdown of communication and confusion by the Government on broadcasting policy. 
Another very distressing view expressed by  Sir Henry  Bland on the same occasion was in relation to Radio Australia. He expressed the view that Radio Australia had no right to objectivity, had no claims to independence and should be nothing but a further arm of the Government's foreign policy. I again quote  Sir Henry  Bland 's own words: 
How on earth does anybody imagine that Radio Australia could go its own way . . . anybody can simply imagine that the Radio Australia can put out programs in direct contradiction to government policy, foreign policy ... of course Radio Australia can't put out programs in direct opposition to it. 
So from  Sir Henry  Bland's point of view Radio Australia is not a news broadcast to inform people in any kind of balanced or objective way of what is going on in Australia; it is merely a propaganda instrument for the present Government. 
This is not only my interpretation of  Sir Henry  Bland 's comments. In the  Age  today the editorial writer was similarly horrified by the suggestion that Radio Australia should be reduced to this propaganda status. It states: 

 Sir Henry now seems to be saying that Radio Australia's claims to be something more than an uncritical vehicle for Government public relations is, or should be, invalid. We rind his view totally unacceptable. There are no defensible grounds for arguing that the ABC-which runs Radio Australia as its international arm- should be less open and honest with its foreign audience than it is with its domestic listeners. As we pointed out some weeks ago, when commenting on suggestions that the Foreign Affairs Department should lay down formal guidelines for Radio Australia, the world has enough propaganda services already. 
Radio Australia is today serving a much reduced audience as a result of the loss of its Darwin transmitters in Cyclone Tracy. We believe the enormous cost of replacing and updating those transmitters would be well worthwhile- but not if  Sir Henry  Bland 's views become official ABC policy. 
As I have quoted at some length from the transcript of  Sir Henry  Bland's remarks to the ABC Northern Tasmania Regional Advisory Committee on 16 November 1976, and as those transcripts clearly have been available to many Australian journalists because extracts were published in the Press yesterday and the day before, I think it is appropriate that I seek leave to have the transcript incorporated in  Hansard. 
I thank the Senate. I turn now to the legislation before us. It has been drasticlly amended since it was first introduced into the other place last week. I believe now, perhaps because it has been drastically amended, that it is fairly pointless legislation which is not worth pursuing at this stage. The remaining provisions in the legislation, now that the most obnoxious provisions which would have sacked the entire ABC and funded commercial broadcasting have been removed, are fairly pointless. 
There is a provision in the Bill that every State should be represented on the ABC. I think this is a quite unnecessary piece of legalism. Any government which wants to ensure a balanced representation of States could have done so under the existing legislation and could do so without any legislative requirement. This is an inflexible provision. I should like to point out a couple of other inadequacies in a provision such as this. One is, of course, that no mention is made of the Territories. The Territories yet again are ignored. At this point of time I would not claim that the ACT would necessarily require a representative because it is fortunate, in one respect, in that it is close to the national media. I would suggest that if there is a case for having State representation-I am not sure that there is- the Northern Territory should be considered. Surely the people of the Northern Territory who have particular needs with regard to national and public broadcasting would be entitled to representation. They have particular problems with their huge distances, with the Aboriginal population and with the decentralised and isolated areas of population. If there is any justification for representation on the basis of States, surely the Northern Territory-if not the Australian Capital Territory- should be included. 
An amazingly anachronistic and uncalled for provision is contained in this legislation requiring the appointment of 2 women commissioners. I am not grateful for such a provision. I remind the Senate that when the original legislation was drawn up in 1942- the year in which I was born- it provided for one woman commissioner. At that time, only S commissioners were appointed to the ABC. At that time the rights of women to participate in public institutions and public life had suffered a great setback since the early feminist movement because of the Depression of the late 1920s and early 1930s and the subsequent world war. The argument about the status of women was probably at an all-time low in 1942. It may not have been unreasonable at that stage to provide specifically for representation by a woman on the Commission. I hope that during my lifetime, and partly as a result of the feminist movement, to which I have devoted a lot of my energies and will continue to do so, we will find that we have passed the stage where unless we provide legislatively for the appointment of a woman no woman will be appointed. What sort of egalitarianism is that? I am not particularly interested in that kind of legislative provision for equal opportunity. Equal opportunity must come in a more sound and basic way than through mere legislative provision. But if one is proffering some sort of egalitarianism through this legislation, I should have thought that a provision for at least 4 women out of the 9 members would have been more realistic. I will not say any more about that at this point because it will be raised at the Committee stage. 
The main issue at stake in the current debate on broadcasting in Australia is the issue of access to information. The reason why all sections of the community have risen up and opposed the Government's attempts to interfere with the ABC is simply this: In Australia we have a print media which is a complete monopoly of a very small number of people who, on the whole, are not democratic in their outlook. The Opposition sees a danger of the electronic media becoming a similar monopoly. Australians appreciate the fact that an independent broadcasting system is probably the only guarantee they have in present circumstances of having access to information which they may fairly judge to be unbiased, objective and properly critical of all political parties. That is the main issue, and that is the reason why the Government's attempts to set up an ABC composed entirely of its own nominees were so strenuously opposed by the community. 
There are a couple of other issues. There is the issue involved with Australia's peculiar geography and peculiar geographic position. Because Australia is so isolated from the rest of the world, broadcasting is particularly important. Because many Australians are so isolated from other Australians and from access to any kind of information at all, broadcasting is particularly important. Another issue which I am pleased to say has become of importance to the community is the issue of Australian content. I do not want to go over the whole of the Australian content debate, but I would like to say that Australians are ready for Australian content in their broadcasting and television programs, in both current affairs and drama. They are ready for it, and evidence for that can be found in the great success- the almost surprising success- of a number of ABC television dramas which have an Australian content. I refer to programs such as  Seven Little Australians, Rush, Luke's Kingdom, Certain Women, Bellbird  and  Power Without Glory.  Not all those programs were really brilliant. For example, I am surprised at the tremendous success of  Power Without Glory,  which seems to me, as a piece of television drama, not to be of exceptional standard. But the success of these programs lies in the fact that they are Australian. They are about our own culture, they are written by our own writers, and they reflect our own social mores of the present and of the past. I have noticed that young children and teenagers particularly are absolutely fascinated by programs like  Rush  and  Power Without Glory,  which give them some insight into their own history. These programs have been made and been very successful. The issue of Australian content, I think, has now been settled. Similarly, the success of the Australian film industry indicates a readiness by Australians to accept their own products in the media. 
Honourable senators may be wondering why I have raised the subject of Australian content at this point in the debate. If we have legislation which undermines the independence of the ABC, if we have financial strictures which limit the ability of the ABC to make programs such as those, we will not continue to have them. It is fairly clear that the commercial interests will not spend the money and do not have the skills and resources to proceed with the development of this very exciting phenomenon of Australian media productions. Only the ABC can continue to do those things and it can do them only if it has the creative freedom, the independence, and an appropriate financial allocation. 
In conclusion, I must make it clear that the Opposition does not believe that everything is perfect with the ABC or with the Broadcasting Control Board or with the issuing of licences or any other matters that are touched on in the legislation before us. We have never said that there was no need for public inquiry or that there was no need for a restructuring of broadcasting. There is a need for all those things. I submit there is a need for a public inquiry into broadcasting, one of suitable duration and substance to give rise to good legislation and sensible structural change. I refer to the fact that the Arran inquiry in Great Britain will take 3 years. That seems to me to be an appropriate period of time for a public inquiry into broadcasting. There have been just criticisms of the ABC which a public inquiry could explore, such as its having a top-heavy bureaucracy, a lack of depth in some current affairs programs, a lack of professionalism on the part of some interviewers, and so on. All these things are just criticisms and could be properly investigated by a public inquiry. 
Our earlier contention has been proved right, that a new type of broadcasting structure is necessary to accommodate developments such as community access broadcasting, special interest broadcasting, and the issue of public broadcasting licensing. There is a need for clarification of where editorial and programming policy should properly reside in broadcasting. We have seen a great deal of confusion. There have been accusations of censorship and, indeed, there have been acts of censorship in the past few months since  Sir Henry  Bland took over chairmanship of the ABC, partly because, I believe, responsibility for editorial and programming policy has not been clearly enough defined, or where it is defined it is no longer appropriate. There is a need for more community and worker participation in order to decentralise and demonopolise the media. 
There are lots of examples of things a public inquiry could look at. We could look at what has happened in Holland where there is a very interesting and innovative structure in access radio. We could take a lesson from what has happened in France where there is monopolisation of the media by the Government. None of these things was looked at in the hurried and secret inquiry that led up to the legislation before us. There is also the question of standards but I will not dwell on that subject because my colleague  Senator Melzer  spoke very persuasively last night about the needs for standards for children's television and there is to be a Senate Standing Committee inquiry into that matter. However, standards are of concern to the community. There is a lot of confusion about aesthetic standards, moral standards, technical standards and so on and so forth and a lot of these things need to be resolved. There is also the possibility of investigating the potential of the ABC to make and sell programs of high quality overseas. Perhaps that is one way in which the financing of the ABC could be more satisfactorily managed. Undoubtedly it can make programs of high standard and if it were appropriately structured it could sell these on the market and recoup the finance for investment in further programs of that kind. 
I suggest these things because I do not want the Government to think we are being entirely negative about the whole question. We appreciate the fact that the Government responded to public criticism and removed the most offensive aspects from the legislation before us, but because it did that we really think that the legislation now have is botched. It was hastily conceived legislation. It originally was drawn up for a sinister political purpose-to rid of the Commissioners who were unacceptable to the Government. That strategy did not succeed. What we have left in this Bui really is not worth proceeding with at present. 
-The honourable senator suggests that I should tell something to the staff of the ABC. I have not been telling the staff of the ABC anything. I have been listening to the ABC staff for some time on this issue and I will continue to listen to the staff of the ABC and workers in associated industries, and I will continue to listen to members of the public express their views on broadcasting because I think that is my responsibility rather than telling them what they should be doing. Because the legislation before us virtually has had its guts taken out- the sinister political aspect has been removed- there is nothing much in it which is worth proceeding with. The change from a Broadcasting Control Board to a Tribunal really only means that we will have a body similar in structure and function but all its members will be nominees of the present Government, and that is most unfortunate. Therefore, I support the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Button  which opposes this legislation and proposes to send it back for redrafting after a period of time for proper public inquiry and discussion so that the Government will then come up with legislation which will restructure public broadcasting in the interests of democracy, the Australian consumer and all the people involved in the industry. 
During the second reading debate on this Bill I said that the more sinister aspects of it had been removed when the Bill was redrafted. However, when looking at these two amendments to the clause we are endeavouring to amend, I think one can draw some sort of sinister inference. On the one hand, the Government is prepared to make a quite unnecessary, anachronistic and even sexist provision for the inclusion of 2 women on the Commission. But at the same time, it is not prepared to make the desirable, sensible, and perfectly acceptable provision for the appointment of an elected representative of the staff to the Commission. In order to accommodate the quite unnecessary provision of 2 women Commissioners, the Government has actually had to go to the length of saying that the number of commissioners shall be increased from nine to eleven if this is necessary to achieve the balance. It seems to me to be extraordinarily complex, clumsy and quite unnecessary. 
The Green report which the Government claims is the basis for this legislation said that 9 Commissioners were too many and that seven would be adequate. Here we have a measure aimed at the possibility of having 11 commissioners simply to accommodate an unnecessary provision for 2 women. On the other hand, there is the refusal of the Government to admit a very basic principle of worker participation, which is that those working in the Australian Broadcasting Commission should have the right to elect one spokesperson to the Commission. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I conclude by saying that the amendment to provide for a representative to be elected by the staff to serve on the Commission is probably the most important amendment the Opposition has moved to this Bill. I hope the Government will accept it. We oppose, for the reasons I have given, the unnecessary sexist and patronising provision for 2 women commissioners. 
asked  the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) How many (a) Commonwealth, and (b) Australian Capital Territory police officers, uniformd and 'plainclothed', were in attendance at the opening of the Canberra Music School on 24 September 1976. 
How many officers were deployed en route to and from the Music School to protect the Governor-General. 
Who ereected the barricades at the Music School; to whom did such barricades belong; at what cost were they hired; what did it cost to (a) erect, and (b) dismantle such barricades. 
What was the total number of work hours and the cost involved under ( 1 ) (a), (2) (b), and (3) (c). 
What other costs were incurred in protecting the Governor-General in connection with the opening of the Music School. 
Which Departments are responsible for such costs or any amount thereof and for what specific amount is each Department responsible. 
Were special arrangements made to ensure the people of Canberra were receiving the normal amount of police protection in view of the number of Australian Capital Territory Police employed protecting the Governor-General on that day; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
By what authority and procedures were the funds allocated by the National Advisory Committee for International Women's Year for investment in the television series  The Story of Human Reproduction  directed by  Dr Germaine  Greer retained by the Australian Film Commission. 
At what date was this substantial allocation of $100,000 absorbed into the Women's Film Fund which is administered by the Australian Film Commission. 
Since that date, has any part of this allocation been used to sponsor any specific project or projects. 
As the Director of Projects for the Australian Film Commission,  Mr John  Daniell, has informed members of the advisory panel on the Women 's Film Fund that they have no decision-making powers regarding sponsorship of projects by the Fund, by what means will the original objective of the Fund, i.e., assistance for production of worthwhile women's films that have no alternative source of assistance, be safeguarded. 
Will the Prime Minister undertake to consult with the Australian Film Commission regarding the Commission's guidelines for the Women's Film Fund, in order to ensure that the $100,000 absorbed from the cancellation of the Greer investment grant and the rest of the funds in the Women's Film Fund are used solely to sponsor projects in keeping with the stated objectives of the International Women's Year Program and not merely to supplement the general allocation ofthe Australian Film Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
1 ) How many places for apprentices, trainee technical officers, and trainee draftsmen, will be available in Government departments in the 1 976-77 financial year. 
How many places were available in 1975-76 and 1974-75. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Women's Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) When will anti-discrimination legislation be introduced in the Federal Parliament to protect women from discrimination in such areas as home buying, house rental, employment, education, job training, credit, and superannuation. 
What positive steps can a woman take when confronted with this form of economic discrimination, until legislation is introduced. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
1 ) To what extent have the relevant trade unions been consulted by the Government concerning its proposed legislation for management initiated retirement of Commonwealth public servants at 33 years of age or over. 
) Has the Government conducted any surveys into Commonwealth Public Service employees in the 33-63 years of age group, to determine the numbers, working capacity and their wishes regarding retirement. If not, what is the basis for the Government's assumption that sacking the over 55 's would lead to an increase in efficiency and a national reduction in staff numbers in the Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Little Athletics Association in the Australian Capital Territory pay a 15 per cent tax on all equipment at purchase. 
Is the Association a non-profit making organisation that does not sell secondhand sporting equipment. 
Will the Treasurer investigate the possibility of exempting this organisation from sales tax. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
Following the imposition of staff ceilings, do Permanent Heads of departments have to inform all staff who are declared to be surplus as to their position. If so, how many public servants have been told that they have been declared to be surplus and in which Departments. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Federal Government continue to pay 75 per cent of salaries of agreed staff in all pre-schools up to 30 June 1 977 in New South Wales. If not, what percentage of salaries of agreed staff in pre-schools up to 30 June 1977 will the Federal Government undertake to pay. 
Will the Minister provide a breakdown of the $27m allocated for child care services showing how and where this money is to be spent, who is to administer the spending, and what consultative arrangements have been made to allow for the expression of community needs. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is a project at Macquarie University at the School of Education called the Down's Syndrome Project to be discontinued; if so, why. 
I present the following petition from 163 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectively showeth: 
The previous public inquiries into the Molonglo Arterial-Western Distributor have not considered Canberra 's total transport needs; 
That construction of the proposed Molonglo Freeway will divert scarce public resources away from Canberra s public transport system; 
That Canberra's high unemployment problems will only be solved satisfactorily, both socially and environmentally, by the construction of urgently needed public transport facilities; 
That massive environmental degradation of Lake Burley Griffin's foreshores will occur if the proposed Molonglo Freeway is constructed; 
That Canberra's air pollution levels are already dangerously high as a direct result of over-dependence on the motor car for private transport and this situation will not be rectified in the foreseeable future by vehicle exhaust emission controls; 
Than many Canberra residents, particularly in the young and elderly age groups, do not have unfettered access to a car and therefore will be substantially disadvantaged if the money proposed for the construction of the freeway is not channelled into public transport facilities which will benefit these groups. 
We your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Molonglo Arterial and Western Distributor be deferred until a full public enquiry has been carried out investigating Canberra s total transport needs. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many people in the Australian Capital Territory have been employed as a result of the National Employment and Training System Special Youth Employment Training Program, 1976. 
Of these people, how many were males, and how many were females. 
Was the employment full or part-time and what was the breakdown as regards numbers and sex. 
How many employers in the Territory have taken advantage of the $59 per week subsidy during 1 976. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How much financial assistance has been provided to date in the Australian Capital Territory under the Community Youth Support Scheme, announced on 2 1 October 1976. 
How many groups and young people have been assisted in the Territory. 
How many projects have been funded or partially funded in the Territory. 
Could the Minister provide details of these projects. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the extent of unemployment in the entertainment industry, in particular, how many actors and musicians are registered as unemployed. 
Will the Minister confirm or deny the report that such unemployment is now 80 per cent. 
Is there any attempt by the Government to monitor increased unemployment where it is the direct result of Government policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Has there been an increase in the accident rate in the Australian Capital Territory since the speed limit on many major roads was increased from 35 mph to 80 kph; if so, what is the increase. 
Has there been an increase in accidents at intersections; if so, what is the increase. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to an article which appeared in the  Age  on 8 February 1977 titled 'The Missing Migrants'? If so, can the Minister comment on the following claims that were made in the article: Firstly, that no Australian education authorities are notified of the arrival or existence of school aged migrant children, and secondly, that there is at present no procedure for finding out the number of non-English speaking migrant children, particularly teen-agers, who are not going to school? Will the Minister undertake to investigate these claims and if necessary take steps to rectify the situation so that the older migrant children are given the educational opportunities to which they are entitled? 
I present the following petition from 45 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honorable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the recent budgetary allocations endanger the quality of Australian education, especially for disadvantaged groups, and, in particular, for migrants, Aboriginals and ternary students from poor backgrounds. 
Your petitioners believe that all persons admitted to institutions of tertiary education in Australia have a right to adequate living conditions and that it is the responsibility of Government to ensure that sufficient funds are allocated to protect that right. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the quality of education in schools and tertiary institutions be not eroded but extended through the provision of adequate funds. 
That in view of the sub-standard living conditions forced upon many tertiary students as a consequence of a totally inadequate student assistance scheme, there is an urgent need for a substantial increase and indexation of grants provided under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme to the level of a living wage, and, further, that the needs-based grants scheme be in no way jeopardised by any other program of student assistance. 
That in order to preserve the quality of higher education in Australia and so as to prevent discrimination against disadvantaged groups there should be no introduction of fees for overseas students, second degree students, higher degree students or any students. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 1 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That previous public inquiries into the Molonglo Arterial-Western Distributor have not considered Canberra's total transport needs; 
That construction of the proposed Molonglo Freeway will divert scarce public resources away from Canberra's public transport system; 
That Canberra's high unemployment problems will only be solved satisfactorily, both socially and environmentally, by the construction of urgently needed public transport facilities; 
That massive environmental degradation of Lake Burley Griffin's foreshores will occur if the proposed Molonglo Freeway is constructed; 
That Canberra's air pollution levels are already dangerously high as a direct result of over-dependence on the motor car for private transport and this situation will not be rectified in the foreseeable future by vehicle exhaust emission controls: 
That many Canberra residents, particularly in the young and elderly age groups, do not have unfettered access to a car and therefore will be substantially disadvantaged if the money proposed for the construction of the freeway is not channelled into public transport facilities which will benefit these groups; 
We your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Molonglo Arterial and Western Distributor be deferred until a full public enquiry has been carried out investigating Canberra's total transport needs. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of considerable publicity surrounding the return of the former Australian Ambassador to Yugoslavia,  Mr Malcolm  Booker, a career diplomat, who has published a book on Australian foreign policy,  The Last Domino,  has not been offered a job in the Department of Foreign Affairs and has been subjected to strong pressures by his Department to retire. 
Why has  Mr Booker  not been offered a job. 
Does the Minister agree that under section 72B (4) of the Public Service Act,  Mr Booker  has a statutory right to reintegration into his Department by an 'appointment  of such status and salary as are determined by the Public Service Board, having regard to the office previously vacated by him, and the period of his appointment as a representative in another country of the Government of Australia'. 
Has  Mr Booker  been told by his Department, apparently in defiance of section 72b (4), that he must retire or accept ajob at the level he was at in 1963. 
Why was a request from  Mr Booker  to the Public Service Board in May 1976 for confirmation of his rights under section 72b (4) not yet properly answered. 
Does the Minister agree that the independence and professionalism of Australia's Foreign Service depends upon the rights of Foreign Affairs officers under the Act being fully respected. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister table all relevant documents relating to the proposed Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization's Division of Forestry Research experiment of forestry practices environmental impact in the Cotter River Valley between the Corin and Bendora dams. 
) When is the proposed experiment due to commence. 
What area of water catchment will be affected. 
Will an environmental impact statement be prepared before the project begins. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I have been informed by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations that the Australian Bureau of Statistics does not keep unemployment statistics by work category or industry. If that is the case- and I find it very hard to believe- will the Minister explain by what means the Government informs itself of the extent of unemployment in particular occupations and industries? What steps does the Government take to measure the unemployment caused directly by government decisions? For example, what steps has the Government taken to measure the extent of the unemployment caused directly in the building and construction industry in the Australian Capital Territory as a result of the Government's cuts in the public building program? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory aware of reports that a local radio station 2CC is advertising that a man calling himself the 2CC man will be at the Canberra Show and will give money to children who approach him and ask whether he is the 2CC man? Does the Minister agree that this kind of advertising is an open invitation to adults with dubious motives to go to the show and pose as the 2CC man in order to attract the attention of children? Will the Minister investigate these reports immediately and take any steps necessary to protect the safety of young children who may be exposed to serious danger as a result of this advertising campaign? 
Can the Minister representing the Attorney-General inform the chamber of the progress of the 2 consumer protection ordinances for the Australian Capital Territory, the Manufacturers Warranties Ordinance and the Misrepresentation Ordinance, on which the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs reported to the Senate in December 1976? In particular, can the Minister give some firm indication as to when the Ordinances will be implemented? 
I ask the Minister for Education whether he is aware that students in at least one high school in the Australian Capital Territory have been given identity cards with the following words on them: 
This card must be presented when borrowing school library books, when enrolling in elective subjects and prior to excursions. Preference will be given to students who have paid school fees. 
Does the Minister agree that such a requirement contravenes section 13 (4) (a) of the Schools Commission Act 1 973 which establishes that the primary obligation of governments is to provide and maintain government school systems of the highest standard which are open without fees or religious tests to all children? Was this apparently illegal instruction regarding identity cards issued by the Minister? If not, what is the Minister's view of it and what action does he intend to take? 
Is the Minister for Education aware that at Yuendumu- an Aboriginal settlement in central Australia- attendance of Aboriginal children at school is very poor despite the operation of a bilingual program there? Is the Minister aware that teachers at the school attribute this poor attendance significantly to the closing by the Fraser Government of the school kitchen which, during the period of the Labor Government, employed Aboriginal mothers to prepare hot midday meals for the children? Is the Minister aware that the kitchen facilities are now lying idle, the mothers are unemployed and the children are malnourished and are absenting themselves from school because they have no food to bring for lunch? Will the Minister investigate the possibility of providing funds to reopen the school kitchen program? 
I wish to ask the Minister for Education for some information regarding the staff utilisation review of ancillary staff in Australian Capital Territory schools which was commissioned by the Minister and has been completed. How long has the Minister had the report? Does the report recommend a return to 1975 staff levels? When will he be prepared to release the repot for public discussion? 
I ask the Minister for Education: When will the Government issue to the Schools Commission and to the proposed PostSecondary Education Commission guidelines dealing with levels of Commonwealth financial assistance for education for the rolling triennium? What is the Government's timetable for the establishment of the proposed PostSecondary Education Commission? Can the Minister assure the Senate that the Government's guidelines will be made available to both the Schools Commission and the proposed PostSecondary Education Commission in sufficient time to enable those commissions properly to prepare their reports to the Government? 
My question is directed to  Senator Guilfoyle  in her capacity as Minister for Social Security and perhaps also in her capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that the women's refuge in Canberra has made a public announcement recently that it has inadequate funds to continue its operations? Can the Minister confirm that the refuge has not yet been given any definite guarantee of funding after 30 June this year? Is the Minister now in a position to give assurances to the Senate that the Canberra refuge, which is solely the responsibility of the Federal Government, unlike the refuges in the States, will receive adequate funding to maintain its present level of services for the next financial year? 
I rise to make a few remarks about a subject which the Senate was debating earlier today, that is, the circumstances in which Aboriginal communities find themselves as a result of the change from the Whitlam Government to the Fraser Government. In particular I want to make some remarks about the problem of Aboriginal health. I assert that the health of the Aboriginal community in Australia has deteriorated since the dismissal of the Whitlam Government, and I endorse the remarks made earlier by my colleagues on this side of the chamber that the Fraser Government has indeed failed to keep its election promises to the Australian Aboriginal people. It has taken some initiatives, mostly in the form of setting up committees. I noted with some interest that the issue of Aboriginal health has been referred to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, but in two very serious areas the Government has acted in a way which has undermined the programs set up during the period of the Labor Government to improve Aboriginal health. It has reduced funds and imposed staff ceilings which have made the appointment of staff at an appropriate level impossible in some areas, including the area of health. 
I believe that the health of some Aboriginal people in Australia is worse than that of any other people in any other part of the world. I am aware that that is a very serious assertion. If it is true, and I believe it is, it is not only a national scandal but also an international scandal that a country as rich as Australia, which has such modern highly developed medical facilities and so many trained doctors and medical personnel, is still a country in which the health of some of its people can be worse than that of people in any other country in the world, including Third World countries, which lack all the things I have just enumerated. I think that the basic problem is racism. The health of the Aboriginal people has been allowed to deteriorate over generations. I would not suggest in the course of my remarks that it is only the present Government which has neglected or failed to cope adequately with the problems of Aboriginal health. The position has deteriorated because of racist attitudes over generations since the arrival of European settlers or conquerors in this country. Those attitudes assume basically that the Aboriginal people are different from and inferior to European people. 
The second problem, one for which we do not need to feel so much guilt but about which we need to make a great deal more effort, is the problem of isolation. The Aboriginal communities to which I will refer are isolated from the rest of Australia. The vast majority of Australians live in cities. They are not aware in any personal way, they are not aware at all except through the media, of the extremities of the problems suffered by Aborigines in isolated communities. For example, I was almost completely unaware of the extent of the health problems of Aboriginal people until I came into this chamber and had an opportunity to visit Central Australia and some of the isolated settlements there. I think my position is typical of Australians of European descent. We are isolated from these serious problems. We are ignorant of them and therefore we neglect them. 
However, I do not suggest that the present Government is ignorant of the problems. I know that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in another place on 3 November admitted the extent and complexity of the health problems of Aboriginal people. He referred to diseases such as yaws, leprosy, hookworm, respiratory tract infection, deafness, malnutrition, alcoholism, venereal disease, trachoma, diarrhoea, and of course the tragic rate of infant  mortality amongst  the Aboriginal community. The point I would like to make is that these diseases, which are the scourge of the Aboriginal people at this time, scarcely occur now, with the possible exception of alcoholism and venereal disease, amongst the white population, and when they do occur they are easily controlled and contained. Why is it that we have this complete double standard with regard to health in Australia and that the diseases which afflict the Aboriginal community to the point of causing one of the highest infant mortality rates in the world are diseases which are almost unknown in the white community? Why is there this apartheid on the matter of health and health services in the Australian community? Why is it the case that in 1977 the remaining 1 50 000 or so Aboriginal people are in danger of being destroyed by diseases which can be contained easily and cured by the techniques of medicine which we possess? 
The medical profession and governments and administrators have been aware of these problems for a long time. I should like to quote a particularly significant article which appeared in the Medical Journal of Australia in 1970, an article on the syndrome of protein-calorie malnutrition in Australian Aboriginal children written by Jose and Welch. Although it was written in 1970, I quote it because I think the problem it indentified still exists and the cures which the article suggested have not yet been taken. This study looked at the growth and development of Aboriginal children on 6 Aboriginal settlements in Queensland and found that growth retardation, which included brain damage, affected up to 50 per cent of Aboriginal children aged between 6 months and 3 years. The study found that nutritional deficiency in pregnant mothers and infants, and inadequate early infant feeding were primary initiating factors, and of course environment did the rest. At the conclusion of this extremely interesting study the authors make the point that the question of Aboriginal health is not an isolated question but is integrated with the whole question of the status of the Aboriginal community. They say: 
The syndrome of P-CM -  that is protein-calorie malnutrition-  described may have important sequelae in terms of mortality, education, chronic disability and employment. Evidence presented suggests that a high proportion of infants dead of gastro-enteritis or pneumonia, and of older children found to be deaf from chonic middle-ear infection, had histories of growth retardation in infancy. Children with infant growth retardation also showed poorer school performance than children in the same community with normal infant growth . . . These observations are further supported by surveys showing that Aboriginal employees most preferred by managers of Northern Queensland cattle stations come from settlements with the lowest incidence of P-CM. . . Although these associations do not prove a direct causal relationship, they certainly suggest that P-CM may be one important factor in determining the future of the Australian Aboriginal people. 
I must agree with that conclusion that perhaps the basic problem and the one that is getting worse all the time instead of better as far as the Aboriginal people are concerned is health. The Aboriginal people are being destroyed by health problems. The causes of these problems are simple. There are three of them: Poor nutrition, inadequate water supply and the absence of sewage systems. These are the same 3 causes that gave rise to the dreadful and destructive plagues in the Middle Ages in Europe. Since that time these causes have been identified, recognised and wiped out within the whole of Western Europe, the United States and white Australia. But the same causes are allowed to persist with regard to the Aboriginal people. Against all rational expectation of what we might find in this country, we find that these same factors which caused widespread death and disease in the Middle Ages in Europe still persist among Aboriginal communities. Of course these factors were not indigenous to Aboriginal communities; they were inflicted upon them by European settlement. I shall just describe briefly how this happened. 
I shall deal firstly with poor nutrition. The 2 main ways in which European settlement has given rise to the poor nutrition factor are the removal- in many cases the forced removal- of Aboriginal people from their native hunting grounds and therefore from their traditional diet which was adequate to places where their traditional diet was not available and, secondly, the introduction of inferior white or European style food and alcohol. 
As far as the water problem is concerned, again we have in many cases the arbitary removal of Aboriginal tribes from areas where water was adequate or from a lifestyle where they were able to find adequate supplies of water to artificially established settlements where no proper water supply was provided by the white administrators. The third problem, that of hygiene and sewage, has come about because whereas there was a nomadic lifestyle amongst the Aboriginal people and it was unnecessary for them to have elaborate sewage systems, they have been taken to live in a static way in overcrowded conditions in settlements where appropriate sewage hygiene facilities have not been supplied. Treatment of the sorts of diseases that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  admits exists widely amongst Aborigines in isolated communities is possible and could be effective if the present Government were prepared to spend money, to supply trained staff and, most importantly, to work with the Aboriginal people in finding solutions to these problems. 
I mention the Central Aborigines Congress Medical Service as an example of an effective program of treatment of the health problems of Aboriginal people. In this Service the Aboriginal Congress employ the doctors and the nurses. The doctors and nurses work with the Aboriginal communities- with the traditional healers. They are having some effect. However, their effectiveness is severely limited by their limited resources. There are 2 doctors and, I think, 3 nurses for 8600 Aborigines who are on thenbooks. Of course, most of those 8600 Aborigines are in very poor health by our standards. So I think the example of the Aboriginal Medical Service in Central Australia demonstrates the sort of thing that can be done. It was an initiative of the Labor Government. But this must be done on a much wider scale and with much better resources. Again, it is the responsibility of the present Government to provide these. To date it has not accepted the Central Australian Aboriginal Medical Service and I am not aware of any initiatives it has taken along these lines in other parts of Australia. 
With respect to the problem of nutrition and alcohol, surely it is not beyond any government of goodwill to make adequate protein and calorie diets available where Aborigines are living on settlements, especially to make it available to pregnant women, to babies and to growing children. I believe that such provision can be made in an integrated way- in a non-paternalistic way- by using existing facilities. I should like to give 1 example of how this was done during the period of the Labor Government. At Yuendumu settlement, some couple of hundred miles out of Alice Springs, a kitchen was established in conjunction with the school. Mothers of Aboriginal children attending the school were employed and paid- they were given proper jobs- to prepare hot lunches of sufficient protein calorie and mineral content for the children. It was a successful program as far as reports that I have received from teachers indicate. The children were happy to go to school under these circumstances. The mothers felt very constructive and useful and the health situation improved. Since the change of government that kitchen has been closed. I was at Yuendumu recently. The kitchen is standing idle. The mothers are unemployed. The children are not coming to school and hunger is one of the factors that keeps them away. 
When I raised this matter in the chamber by way of a question directed to the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  he gave a rather curious reply. He pointed out, without actually adopting the position, that some people might consider it to be paternalistic to use the school to provide school lunches. I am not accusing the Minister of actually saying that this was his belief, but he certainly raised it as a possible position and as one of the problems that led to the closing of the Yuendumu school canteen. I think it is entirely unrealistic to start talking about paternalism when the effect of such talk is to avoid responsibility. If the children of Yuendumu are malnourished, which indeed they are, and if they are living at the settlement as a result of European intrusion into their culture and into their lands, it is not paternalism to provide these facilities; it is simple, basic humanitarianism and responsibility to do as much as possible to rectify the nutrition situation. A scheme was operating quite successfully at Yuendumu. I hope that by raising the matter again in the Senate the attention of the Minister for Education might be drawn to the problem and some small funds might be found to re-open the kitchen. 
The alcohol problem is being examined and has been examined by various committees. It is one about which the Aboriginal community is now very aware. But when talking about the alcohol problem amongst Aborigines we would do well to bear in mind that it is a problem that we have inflicted on the Aboriginal community and that European-Australians have actually created. These isolated settlements to which I have referred have no supply of their own of alcohol. White sellers or peddlers of alcohol go out to the camps and sell wine or other alcohol at scandalously inflated prices, thus contributing to the alcohol and health problem. I become very embarrassed and disgusted by discussions about Aboriginal alcoholism when they are couched in terms of alcoholism being something that the Aborigines have brought upon themselves. 
I have certainly heard it said by white people in Alice Springs. I cannot recall anyone saying it in this chamber but surely  Senator Baume  has heard comments to the effect that Aborigines cannot handle alcohol, that they are hopeless and that they are always on the booze. I think those comments are entirely misdirected since the problem was initiated by European settlers. 
The Government should be looking at ways of taking health, education and social security services out to where the Aborigines are living. Of course there are facilities around Alice Springs, Darwin and other places to which Aborigines have access but away from these developed centres, in the isolated areas, the facilities are not there but the needs are there. I criticise the present Government for taking no steps that I am aware of to bring the necessary health and educational services out to where the Aboriginal people are living. The trachoma eradication program which is about to start is a very encouraging development. 
It was initiated by  Dr Everingham  when he was Minister for Health and an amount of $575 000 was made available. However, this kind of program, which  Senator Baume  seems to think has been in operation for many years, is an example of the sort of program which a conscientious Government should be developing in every area of Aboriginal health. As I have said, we have trained doctors and nurses. Traditional healers are prepared to work in conjunction with trained doctors and nurses. Food, antibiotics and vitamins are available to us in almost embarrassing abundance. Why is it that the present Government has not brought all these resources together in a national program to cope with the known, identified and easily curable problems of Aboriginal health? 
The other 2 causes which I identified as being basic to the problem are the lack of water and sewerage. On both the settlements I visited recently, Papunya and Yuendumu, there were grossly inadequate water supplies and sewerage facilities for the Aboriginal people. However, the white administrators, teachers and other Europeans who were living and working on the settlements had adequate water supplies and sewerage facilities in their residences. The point need not be laboured. It is possible to provide the basic necessities for good health to Aborigines living away from developed areas. The cost involved would not be very great. Trained and skilled personnel are available. It appears that all that is lacking is the will, motivation or efficiency of the present Government in order to initiate a national program to eradicate health problems amongst Aboriginal people. 
Earlier when these matters were being discussed in the Senate,  Senator Guilfoyle,  the Minister for Social Security, gave a detailed statement about the intentions of the present Government with regard to social security services to which Aboriginal people have access. I cite as an example the settlement at Papunya which has a population of 400 to 500 people. There is no social security officer to handle pension and family allowance matters. In fact I was told that there was no social security officer on any of the central Australian reserves. The absence of a person to handle this work leads to long delays in payments. Several instances have been reported of withdrawal of pensions without explanation. Instances have been reported of people having to wait up to 6 months for an invalid pension after certification by a Commonwealth Medical Officer. There have been reports of mothers having to wait up to 6 months after the birth of their child for child endowment to arrive. During this period the families which are waiting for a social security benefit often have no income at all and the problems of nutrition are greatly aggravated. I put a simple question to the Minister: In her new program for the coming financial year can she arrange to have a social security officer, if not on every central Australian reserve and similar reserves throughout Australia, at least to cover a realistic region so that there will not be delays in payments to which the Aboriginal people are certainly entitled? If she is able to do that it will be an important contribution to improving nutrition. 
I refer briefly to education. The bilingual education program started during the period when Kim Beazley was Minister for Education is the first serious breakthrough into the real problem of educating Aboriginal people. I have read reports which suggest that it is successful where there are properly trained people. The present staff ceiling restriction imposed by the Fraser Government has meant that Aboriginal teacher aides have not been appointed in sufficient numbers to make the program really successful. I raise this matter in the hope that it will lead to some action. Many Aboriginal people who have been working in schools as translators and assistants have often been working in those positions for up to 20 years with no official recognition. I think the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  should look to the possibility of giving formal accreditation to those teachers and the appropriate salary, study leave and other benefits which they would receive if they were recognised as teachers in their own tongue. In other words, Aboriginality should be a recognised teaching qualification in a bilingual program. I shall not continue with my remarks on this subject because I recognise that a lot of other speakers wish to speak on subjects other than the problems of Aboriginal health. I conclude by saying that it is the responsibility of the national Government to deal with this problem. It is perhaps our greatest national disgrace. I hope that the Government will not put off the day any longer when it will do something about this problem. 
I rise tonight to make some brief remarks on a matter that has become controversial in the Australian Capital Territory in the last few days, that is, the proposal by an organisation known as Population Services International to establish a clinic in the Australian Capital Territory which would offer abortion, as well as other services. The purpose of my rising to speak tonight is simply to correct some statements that have been made recently in the Federal Parliament, in public and in the Press by people who should know better about the attitudes of the people of the Australian Capital Territory to the question of abortion law reform. Firstly, I should like to make some comments on the claim made by  Senator Harradine  that a referendum was conducted in the Australian Capital Territory on the subject of abortion. That claim is not true. No referendum on the subject of abortion has been conducted in the Australian Capital Territory. In fact, no referendum at all has been held in the Australian Capital Territory since it was formally separated from New South Wales in 1911. The citizens of the Australian Capital Territory were then deprived of the right to vote in any referendum. It is true, however, that a survey was conducted to ascertain the attitudes of the people of Canberra to the abortion question. The survey was carried out in 1 969 by D. G. Beswick from the Australian National University and published in the Australian and New Zealand Journal of Sociology in 1970. It revealed that public opinion did not support the present statute law, which prohibits abortion except in rare circumstances. Part of the results were as follows: In response to the proposition that it should be legal for a woman to have an abortion if she wants one, 68 per cent of respondents said that they agreed with that statement; 62 per cent of respondents said that they agreed with the proposition that abortion should be allowed to prevent unwanted children from being born. While the size of the sample was relatively small, the survey gave a clear indication of the relatively liberal attitudes of the community in the Australian Capital Territory to a woman's freedom of choice as to whether or not she will have an abortion. 
Two years later the elected body representing the people of Canberra passed a resolution calling for the liberalisation of abortion laws. In June 1971 the Advisory Council, the forerunner of the present Legislative Assembly, passed a motion which proposed that sections 82, 83 and 84 of the Crimes Act be repealed and replaced by new legislation making abortion legal if the life of the mother was in danger or her physical or mental health was threatened or if the foetus could be abnormal. In making such a judgment, the environment of the woman was to be taken into account. That resolution was forwarded to the Minister for the Interior,  Mr R.  Hunt, where it languished. 
A second unsupported claim which has been made in recent days is the claim that the people of the Territory have indicated their opposition to abortion in respect of the electoral performance of Kep Enderby, the former member for Canberra. It has been claimed that the defeat of  Mr Enderby  in 1975 was caused by his proabortion stance. Again, there is no evidence to support that claim. Any evidence which does exist in fact points to an entirely different interpretation of  Mr Enderby's  electoral defeat. I take this opportunity to remind those people that  Mr Enderby  made his views on abortion quite clear to the community as early as 1 970 at a public rally. He was then a member of the House of Representatives. In 1972 he campaigned for the seat of Canberra partly on the issue of liberalising the abortion laws in the Australian Capital Territory. He faced a massive counter-campaign by the Right-to-Life Association and others who would deny the rights of women in these matters. He even faced an anti-abortion candidate from the Labor Party who ran as an independent candidate. The result of the election in 1972, as some honourable senators may remember, was that 

 Mr Enderby was elected with an absolute majority. 
Another point I should like to raise relates to the claims being made that the defeat of the McKenzie-Lamb Bill in the House of Representatives in 1973 was again a demonstration that the people of the Australian Capital Territory had rejected the notion of liberalising abortion laws. I point out to the Senate that the people of the Australian Capital Territory had only one representative in the House of Representatives in 1973 when the vote was taken on the Medical Practice Clarification Bill, that is, the McKenzieLamb abortion Bill. That one representative was  Mr Enderby  and he voted in support of the Bill. He was then re-elected in 1974, despite the further efforts of the Right-to-Life campaign. So that to claim, as has been done publicly in recent days, that the defeat of  Mr Enderby  in 1975 was an indication that the people of the Australian Capital Territory do not want abortion reform is ludicrous. 
I have not raised this issue tonight in order to take the opportunity to represent my own views on abortion, which I have done publicly on many occasions and which are well known. I do not think it is proper to enter into such a discussion at this stage. I think that the progress which has been made on this question has been quite satisfactory. The people of the Australian Capital Territory have not yet expressed their views in a referendum on this or any other issue, but the Legislative Assembly, representing the Australian Capital Territory, has this week taken 2 steps which I believe will give the people of the Australian Capital Territory such an opportunity. I do not wish to anticipate the outcome of these steps, but I do wish to describe them because the question raised by  Senator Walters  in this chamber this morning placed an entirely incorrect interpretation on the decisions taken by the Legislative Assembly. At its meeting this week the Legislative Assembly decided to outlaw the establishment of the Population Services International clinic for a period of 90 days, during which time a proper investigation into the medical procedures of this organisation could be carried out. That was not a rejection of the question of abortion reform but a delay to enable proper, sound and responsible investigations into the operations of this clinic to be carried out. 
The Legislative Assembly further decided to accept a message from the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  asking it to refer the whole matter of abortion, abortion clinics and the role that public hospitals should play in providing such services to a special committee of the 
Legislative Assembly, that is, to its Health and Welfare Committee. That Committee will examine in the broadest possible terms the whole question of abortion, the current situation with regard to the termination committee at the Canberra Hospital, the possibility of liberalising the situation at the hospitals, and the possibility of establishing special clinics. It will conduct that examination in consultation with the Capital Territory Health Commission, which is not at present seeking advice on this question from the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. Of course, the special committee of the Legislative Assembly will advise the Assembly of its findings before any decision is made. 
I certainly do not wish to anticipate the findings of the Legislative Assembly and therefore I will not put forward my own views at this time. However, I do think that it is extremely important on such an emotional and delicate issue as the one before us to avoid confusing the issue even further by distorting what has happened to date in the Territory. I hope that in the ensuing few weeks a responsible decision, properly and democratically arrived at, will be reached and that any action to be taken by the Minister for the Capital Territory, the Legislative Assembly, the Capital Territory Health Commission and the Australian Capital Territory hospitals will be based on such a democratically and responsibly reached decision. 
Will the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate whether or not it is a fact Koomarri, Australian Capital Territory, will be forced to stand down 13 staff and to cancel several programs, including a special vocational training project and a program of assistance to handicapped people living independently, because of the Minister's refusal to grant extra money to the organisation? Can the Minister explain to the Senate the rationale in economic terms of withdrawing funds from programs designed to develop social and economic independence for handicapped persons when the result will be an increased call on government funds for invalid pensions for these persons? 
I rise tonight to draw attention to what has become a major scandal in the Australian Capital Territory and what is recognised as a major scandal by the medical profession throughout Australia. I refer to the industrial dispute between the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association and those doctors who are employed by the Australian Capital Territory Health Commission to provide a salaried special medical service at the 2 public hospitals in Canberra. 
This matter was one of the first I raised in the Senate. On 25 March last year I called on the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  to take steps to resolve the dispute which not only was leading to the destruction of the salaried service and the careers of those highly qualified and committed doctors employed by it but also was actually endangering the health and even the lives of patients. Since that time, over 12 months ago, the Minister has made no progress towards reestablishing proper professional relationships between the two parts of the medical profession referred to. He has made no progress towards reestablishing proper professional behaviour on the part of the ACTMA members towards public patients. 
The problems have become worse in the last 12 months during which  Mr Hunt  has been Minister for Health. The situation has become worse because the Minister's goodwill in the matter has been eroded by 2 factors for which he, as a member of the Fraser Government, must accept responsibility. The first is the undue influence exerted on the present Government by the ACTMA in pursuit of narrow, protectionist, materialistic policy. The second is the ideological prejudice of that same Government against the principle of a salaried professional service. Acting on this prejudice, the Government has acted against the interests of the A.C.T. community. 
The background to the dispute, for those honourable senators who seem not to be very familiar with this subject, is this: Before 1972. Canberra public hospitals had allowed any registered doctor to work as a specialist and to have specialist privileges in the hospitals. There were no accreditation procedures and thus no means of ensuring the development and maintenance of high standards. During the period of the Labor Government, the A.C.T. Health Commission appointed specialists to run a salaried specialist service to which the public, under Medibank, had access without charge. These doctors who were highly qualified and in many cases brought a specialty to Canberra medical practice that had not previously existed were appointed without the agreement of the ACTMA. The ACTMA then boycotted the salaried service. It refused to refer patients, even in areas where the salaried specialist was the best or even the only practitioner in the field. Patients from Canberra were referred to Sydney or Melbourne instead of to the highly competent doctors in Canberra. A case was reported in the media and raised in the other place. It involved a desperately ill victim of a motor accident who was left waiting for a crucial operation while the private surgeon dismissed a salaried anaesthetist and called a private anaesthetist. I have heard reports of many cases similar to that one. 
In 1975 the ACTMA boycott of the salaried specialist service was found to be in breach of the Trade Practices Act. Yet it still persists, and it does so to the detriment of the Canberra people. Recognising the seriousness of this rupture of professional relationships, the Minister established a committee under Professor Hughes to review the situation and to recommend a new structure for medical services at the hospitals which would permit the salaried and the private doctors to operate side by side as they do, I might say, in every other public hospital throughout the Australian States. The report failed to recommend a satisfactory structure. But the outcome to date is this: Of the 40-doctor strength salaried specialist team, ten have resigned and only two have been appointed to replace them. The service is thus overworked and understaffed. The Minister has given in to the ACTMA pressure against salaried payments and granted a 70 per  cent fee for service payment. This is grossly extravagant to the taxpayers and is entirely unjustified in a situation where the demand for publicservices would be very great if they were offered. It is also, of course, another blow against the principle of salaried professional services. The salaried specialists have been excluded from the decision-making bodies in the hospitals in which they work. 
Al the time nl tin- election nf lite S medical  committees  thai head the :&gt; .specialist medical units in the hospitals, the private doctors ran a how-to-vole ticket thai had nothing to do with medical competence and everything to do with  ACTMA  politics. As a result of this, the salaried specialists arc represented on only one of those committees. Because of ACTMA politics, the Minister's ineptitude and the dismantling of Medibank, there arc now 2 classes of patients at Canberra hospitals. There are the levy patients who cannot gel the best treatment if the best happens to be  a  private  doctor  who in accordance with ACTMA policy will noi trent levy patients. The other class of patient is the privately insured  patient  who cannot gel the best treatment if the best happens to be a salaried specialist to whom the private patients' own doctor refuses to refer patients. So the patients lose out in cither case. 
That is correct. The accreditation procedures instituted by the Minister as a result of the Hughes report are similarly unsatisfactory for patients in the Australian Capital Territory. The Minister has permitted a system whereby private doctors previously practising in Canberra hospitals regardless of competence, have automatically been given specialist status for the next 5 years. The salaried specialists, on the other hand, must undergo a rigorous selection and accreditation procedure before they arc appointed. Canberra patients thus cannot have confidence in the competence of all doctors accredited at the hospitals. 
Similarly, the insecurity caused by the dispute has forced many families to take private insurance that they cannot really afford. In a letter to the  Bulletin  on 1 9 March this year the Minister stated that nearly 74 per cent of patients have private insurance. He said this to support his claim that there is not much demand Ibr public services. What that rate of public insurance for Canberra patients really shows is that people have been deprived of public services because of the dispute and have been forced into private insurance because of the Minister's failure to resolve the dispute. 
In conclusion, I quote from an editorial which appeared in the  Canberra Times  of 25 February 1977. I hope that the Minister will take note of my remarks and of the remarks made in the editorial, lt reads: 
The crux of this unhappy situation is that, unless the doctors responsible are prepared to give medical ethics &gt;i  recedence  over personal politics, mie day a  patient  may dic  because  iiic doctors concerned look lime till' lt) argue the politics of Iiic Munition bc lore deciding  what  to do about him and who should do it. lt is noi inconceivable that a coronial inquest held as a result of such an incident could prove extremely embarrassing to some people. This is an intolerable situation that cannot bc allowed to exist any longer. 

 Mr Hunt has now removed some of the mystery and secrecy which surround the internal politics of the medical profession. He must pursue his efforts  to bring the whole tillair into the open and to isolate iiic recalcitrants. The least the community can demand from the A.C.T. Medical Association is a formal public statement repudiating unethical practices of the kind allegedly Hiking place and pledging observance of the traditional obligations ofthe profession. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and follows a question on the subject of Queensland women's refuges which was asked in the House of Representatives on 3 1 March by the honourable member for Petrie. I ask the Minister: Can she inform the Senate whether it is now the case that all State governments except the Queensland  Government  are funding refuges from Commonwealth block grants under the Community Health Program? What plans does the Minister have for ensuring the continued operation of the Brisbane and Townsville refuges and any other refuges, such as the one in the Australian Capital Territory, that are not receiving State grants? When will specific financial commitments regarding these refuges be made, bearing in mind the imminence of the end of the financial year and the fact that most of these refuges are now without funds? 
The Senate is debating cognately 2 education Bills, the Territory Education Commission Bill 1977 and the Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill 1977. The Opposition opposes neither of these Bills. However, the Opposition has serious reservations about the effect that the Tertiary Education Commission Bill will have on the various sectors of education that will be included in the Commission. In order to express those reservations and to obtain from the Government some reassurances on them, the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  has moved an amendment which we hope the Government will accept. I remind the Senate of the amendment: 
At end of motion, add 'but the Senate is of the opinion that in respect of the Tertiary Education Commission Bill 1977- 
1 ) the Senate recognises the disadvantaged position of technical education in Australia and that adequate financial resources will be made available to the technical sector to raise its standards to levels envisaged in the Kangan Report; 
further measures be taken to ensure that technical education in Australia is not further isolated from secondary education; and 
every effort be made to ensure full provision for the development of further education '. 
I shall explain why we have moved that amendment. However, before I proceed to do so, I must throw a little more light on the figures just incorporated by the previous  speaker, Senator Baume.  Honourable senators will be aware that there has been a long disagreement in this chamber about how much was actually spent on technical education in the last 3 calendar years and 2 financial years. The figures incorporated by  Senator Baume,  which I also happen to have before me, were not fully explained by him. I say to honourable senators and particularly to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that if we are looking at calendar years it is fair to look at the calendar year 1975 which was the last year of the Labor Government and the current calendar year 1977 which is the first complete year for which the Liberal-National Country Party coalition has brought down a Budget and compare those figures. If we compare the calendar years 1975 and 1977 we find not an increase in actual money terms but a slight reduction. I shall refer to the 4 headings of the figures which  Senator Baume  incorporated to make this point. On universities, in 1975 a total of $563m was expended by the Labor Government. In 1977, a total of $555m was expended by the present Government- a reduction. On colleges of advanced education, in 1975, $4 17m was expended by the Labor Government. In 1977, $404m was expended by the Fraser Government- again a reduction. On technical and further education, in 1975 $74m was expended by the Labor Government. In 1977, $70m was expended by the Fraser Government. On schools, in 1 975, $54 1 m was expended by the Labor Government. In 1977, $508m was expended by the Fraser Government. I took the time to read out those figures which have been incorporated by  Senator Baume  because he did not draw sufficient attention to them. 
I now turn to the Tertiary Education Commission Bill. The Opposition regards this as a very significant Bill because it changes the structure of tertiary education administration by the Commonwealth Government in this country. Until now, as honourable senators will be aware, 3 separate Commissions have covered the areas which are now to be combined. There has been a Universities Commission for many years. There has been a Commission for Advanced Education for some time. Only recently, since 1974, has there been a Technical and Further Education Commission. The purpose of the legislation before us is to amalgamate all those commissions in an umbrella commission called the Tertiary Education Commission. Each of the 3 sectors will have its own council which will report on needs in its own areas independently to the Commission. We do not oppose this amalgamation. We accept the Minister's argument that there is a need for rationalisation, particularly in the area of colleges of advanced education and universities. I am personally aware, from my own experience in these areas, that there is wasteful duplication of human, financial and physical resources. 
However, we have reservations that inclusion of the technical and further education in the university and colleges of advanced education areas may lead to a weakening of that sector of education. We seek an assurance from the Minister in the course of this debate that his Government is proposing not only structural changes as contained in this legislation but also a real change in funding priorities. The claim that technical and further education has been the Cinderella of education has become a political cliche in the last few months. Politicians on both side of the chamber, in and out of Parliament, are uttering this and expressing regret that it has been the case. We no longer have to debate the fact that technical and further education has been most seriously neglected particularly, of course, during the long years of rule by conservative governments in Canberra. What we require from the Minister now is not the admission which we have had already that technical and further education is in a disadvantaged situation, but a real commitment to improve that situation, to bring the funding allocation of technical and further education to a position of parity with other forms of post-secondary education. 
I have been following the Minister's comments in this chamber and in other forums very closely. As yet I have heard from him no specific commitment with regard to funds and changing funding priorities. I have heard general sentiments, which I and people involved in technical and further education were pleased to hear, that he is aware of the problems and is determined to do something about them. What we should like in the course of this debate is some specific information about priorities. For example, what sorts of guidelines will the Minister be issuing to this new Commission? Where will technical and further education fit into those guidelines? Since he has been the Minister for Education the Minister has adopted the procedure of issuing to the education commissions guidelines within which they must draw up their budgets and determine their policies. I hope that in issuing guidelines for this new Commission the Minister will make it quite clear just what priority his Government puts on technical and further education. 
The other reason why members of the Opposition feel some reservation about seeing the Technical and Further Education Commission abolished is that it has done such an excellent job. The Technical and Further Education Commission, and the Kangan Committee which led to its establishment, cannot be praised too highly for the work they have done in drawing attention to the needs of this area of education and the very serious financial, physical, administrative and other disadvantages it has had to suffer for many years. It has provided data of a most detailed, specific and persuasive kind regarding all the disadvantages to which I have referred. There has been criticism from some supporters of the Government that the Labor Government did not act quickly enough in the technical and further education area. Whilst we admit that it would have been preferable to have been able to achieve a more rapid improvement in that area, it would have been extremely difficult for any Government gaining power at the end of 1 972 to implement immediately a program for improving technical and further education on a Commonwealth basis because the data was not available. 
The neglect in this area had not been simply a neglect in terms of funding but neglect in terms of research. It was not until the Kangan Committee produced that first excellent report that we had national data, that we had State by State and Territory data, whereby we could get a national picture of what was going on in technical and further education. Until we had such a picture there was no rational way in which a program could be mounted. I would like to record at this point my congratulations to the members of the Kangan Committee and to the subsequent Technical and Further Education Commission for the excellent job that they have done. The material they provided in the 3 reports will, I hope, be basic documents from which the new Technical and Further Education Council to be established by this legislation will develop its strategies and advice to the Minister. 
Having uttered those words of praise about the Technical and Further Education Commission's third report I would like to quote from it. The information I am going to quote illustrates very clearly the extent of the problem and the numbers of Australian people who are involved or who would wish to be involved in technical and further education. I was interested in  Senator Baume  's remark that he appreciated the fact that the home environment and home circumstances of a child determine to a considerable extent the kind of educational opportunity that that child will have. I would endorse his remark but perhaps draw an inference different from the one that he drew. If we look at the socioeconomic backgrounds of students in our universities even today we will find that over 90 per cent of them come from what we might call advantaged socio-economic backgrounds. No more than 10 per cent of children from what are called working class families in this country get to universities, which I think is an indictment of the inequalities that remain within our education system. The children from working class and lower class income families do not get to universities but usually they get to, or wish to get to, technical and further education institutions. That is one of the reasons why we in the Labor Party have such a persistent concern about upgrading those post-secondary institutions in which the majority of low income students find themselves. The information from the Technical and Further Education Commission's triennium report for 1977-79 to which I wish to draw the attention of the Senate at this stage is this: 
Interpreting available data conservatively, the Commission estimates that the equivalent full-time student ( EFTS ) enrolments of the State TAFE - 
That is a shorthand expression for technical and further education- 
Departments/ Divisions in 1975 were some 163 500 as compared with some 126 900 in universities and some 98 200 in colleges of advanced education. Put another way, TAFE is meeting rather more than 40 per cent of the total institutional load of post-secondary education. 
The report goes on to say: 
Relating student load to resources available reveals that the public sector has been providing per EFTS in TAFE only 37 per cent of the funds provided per EFTS in the tertiary sector. 
The very nature of many TAFE programs, especially in the technologies, demands up-to-date capital facilities if these programs are to be effective. Of particular concern to the Commission is the long-standing starvation of TAFE for capital funds. In 1973-74 and 1974-75, for every $1 of capital expenditure per EFTS in TAFE more than $4 per EFTS was spent on capital facilities in tertiary education . . . 
Reflecting the limits of the State funds available for TAFE, and the compelling requirement on States to increase substantially their recurrent expenditure, most States have been able to do little in recent years towards meeting TAFE's needs for accommodation and for programs to improve its efficiency. State capital expenditure has probably been adversely affected by the matching requirements until recently of Commonwealth grants for universities and colleges of advanced education and the need for school building in a period of rapid increase in enrolments. 
I would hope that the Minister for Education, in the course of this debate, will explain quite clearly to the Senate just how the funding of technical and further education is to be affected by his Government's federalism policy. Although the technical sector is to come into this new tertiary commission it should be remembered that whereas the Commonwealth funds 100 per cent the universities and colleges of advanced education it funds directly only 20 per cent of technical and further education and the great burden, the 80 per cent, is left for the States. In a situation where States have increasing responsibilities, where they do not have increasing financial resources to meet those responsibilities, how are the States to find the additional resources that are so necessary if technical and further education is to be improved? I would very much appreciate a clear statement from the Minister of his expectations in that respect. 
Another point I wish to raise in the debate is the relationship of industry to technical and further education. Industry, we may say, gets the fruits of successful technical and further education. Industry relies on the skills that it requires for productivity being imparted to workers in industry before they enter industry through technical and further education institutions and through the apprenticeship system associated with it. We have heard many complaints from industry in recent times that it is not getting the skills it needs in its workers; it is not getting the right kinds of skilled workers; it is not getting enough skilled workers and therefore its productivity is declining. I do not think anyone would disagree with that statement. However, I would say to industry, and I hope that the Minister might consider saying it also, that as it requires skilled workers of a certain kind for productivity, perhaps it is time industry accepted some responsibility for the financial commitment involved in training people with those skills. 1 realise that industry contributes to the apprenticeship system but I would hope that other constructive strategies could be developed whereby industry contributes to some of the costs of training skilled workers for the industry which will use them for profitability. 
I also feel that in this debate we must draw attention to the current economic situation and the current unemployment situation. During this period of the Fraser Government we have the worst unemployment that has existed in this country. We must relate this unemployment to the inadequacies in technical and further education in the past. I certainly would not suggest that it has been only inadequacies in technical and further education that has given rise to this dramatically high rate of unemployment. 
Clearly, when we have a situation which members of the Government have described often enough, where there are at least some skilled vacancies available and there are many, many unskilled persons who cannot be employed in those jobs because they do not have the skills, surely we must look again at the whole relationship of technical education and training to manpower policies and employment policies. 
We in the Labor Party believe that every person has the right to work. Perhaps that statement would not be disagreed with by members of the Government, but it is no use saying to people that they have the right to work if educational and training institutions do not impart the skills whereby a person can exercise that right to work. The lack of skills in our community really is quite dramatic. Again I will quote figures from the last Technical and Further Education Commission report to demonstrate this fact. In quoting these figures I would hope also that I would be effectively silencing those people in the community who say that perhaps we have an over-educated community, that perhaps we have an overtrained community, and that perhaps we should stop spending money in this sector because already we have spent too much and we have skills we do not need. An analysis of census figures in 1971 showed that of the total adult population of persons employed, 67.5 per cent of males had no post-school qualifications- that is they had no formal skills of any kind- and 80.7 per cent of females had no skills. When we look at the breakdown of the figures, and I will table this document if the Senate so wishes, we find that only 20.3 per cent of males in the working population have trade qualifications and only 1 .9 per cent of females in employment have trade qualifications. A lot of the females in that category would be hairdressers. That is not the most lucrative trade for a person in the work force to follow. Only 3.3 per cent of males in the work force had degrees, and only 1.8 per cent of women in the work force had degrees. Only 3.8 per cent of males had other tertiary qualifications, whereas 5.2 per cent of females had other tertiary qualifications. I will repeat the overall picture- 67.5 per cent of males in the work force had no qualifications, and 80.7 per cent of females in the work force had no qualification. 
On those figures I do not think we can really claim to have an over-educated or over-trained work force. It is very clear that if we were to compare those figures with the figures for countries with comparable capitalist or socialist democracies we would find that we were lagging behind by about 1 5 to 20 years in the imparting of skills to our work force. This factor must surely be extremely significant as part of the explanation for our present economic crisis and our present very grave unemployment crisis. 
As I quoted those statistics, honourable senators may have noticed the very seriously disadvantaged situation of women in relation to skills for employment. At a seminar held in New South Wales last weekend on technical and further education and on the crisis in technical and further education a lot of time was devoted to analysing the access of women to technical and further education. The results of that inquiry were very damning. Women have been virtually excluded from most avenues of obtaining marketable skills in technical or trade areas. Nevertheless, they have gone into the work force. They have been employed only in the worst paid and least skilled jobs, jobs which are performed under the worst conditions. They have been the most vulnerable to retrenchment at a time of economic crisis. This has happened. Although the present method of collecting unemployment statistics does not give anything like the true indication of the rate of unemployment among women, there is still reason to believe that women who were employed in the manufacturing industries suffered a much more serious degree of unemployment than virtually any other sector. They became unemployed because of the economic crisis and because they did not have any skills in the first place. They remain unemployable. This is something which I hope the Minister will bear in mind and on which he will be prepared to take positive action when the Tertiary Education Commission starts to work. 
One of the concerns that we voice in the amendment moved by the Opposition to the motion for the second reading is that technical and further education ought not to become any more isolated from the schools system. A report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on the transition from school to the work force in Australia has not yet been completed. However, an Australian working party report has been published. It is very clear that there has been an isolation, which has been very destructive, between the needs and the opportunities provided by technical institutions and what has gone on in schools. In general, our school system had been geared to preparing students for university-type post-secondary education. The system had ignored, to a large extent, preparing students to undertake technical courses, for example in school curricula. The system had not advised the students of the possibilities that existed. The poor careers advice has become almost as much as cliche as has the claim that technical and further education is the Cinderella of education. This poor careers advice has been particularly poor in the case of female students. So we have huge numbers of unemployed among school leavers, most of whom leave school with no knowledge of technical and further education institutions, no knowledge of the prerequisites which they should have taken at school to qualify for various courses and no knowledge of the job opportunities that they would have if they acquired certain skills in the technical sector. They are not only without skills; they are without the knowledge to attain those skills. To a large extent that has contributed to the lengthy periods of unemployment which school leavers are experiencing. 
For this reason we hope that whatever happens to the new Tertiary Education Commission, there will be close liaison between that Commission and the Schools Commission, and close liaison at a State level between the Technical and Further Education Commission and the State Departments of Education. It is absolutely essential that a much closer relationship be developed between schools, vocational education in schools, vocational guidance in schools and the courses available post-school. I hope that the Minister when making appointments to the commissions will use this opportunity to reflect the real needs of the community. I hope that we will see appointed to the councils, particularly to the Technical and Further Education Commission, people who represent certain disadvantaged groups in that area. For example, I hope we will see several women from the technical and further education sector appointed to that Commission. I hope we will see migrants appointed to the$e commissions. I hope we will see appointed people with other specialised knowledge of the particular difficulties our various disadvantaged groups- ethnic groups and women generallyhave in gaining access to post-secondary education. 
I ask the Minister to state, when he is replying to this debate, how far he is prepared to go in adopting a national strategy in respect of the funding of post-secondary education and how far he sees it possible for his Government, committed as it is to federalism, to adopt such a strategy. If we are to upgrade the area of technical and further education, if we are to rationalise the resources allocated to CAEs and universities, that can be done effectively only if there is a national strategy. The Schools Commission developed for schools a national strategy which has, I think, been successful as far as it has gone. We would now like to see a commitment from the Minister to a national strategy in the area of post-secondary education and training. We hope that the preoccupation of his Government with States rights and federalism will not be allowed to interfere with or to obstruct development or the implementation of a national strategy. It is only by the development of a national strategy in this area that we will create what I consider to be an essential situation. School leavers or any other persons who do not have jobs, instead of getting unemployment benefit, could get education or training so that they might obtain jobs. Unemployment benefit does nobody any good. It is essential to maintain life, but it does not lead anywhere. I would like to see this Government take the initiative, now that it has a new structure, and put sufficient funding and national direction into the whole area of tertiary education so that instead of offering unemployment to school leavers and other persons we might offer education and training. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide an estimate of the number and percentage of households in Australia which possess at least one radio equipped to receive FM broadcasts as at I January 1977. 
Will the Minister itemise the estimates according to the following districts: 
Sydney, (b) Melbourne, (c) Brisbane, (d) Adelaide, (e) Perth, (f) Hobart, (g) the Australian Capital Territory, and (h) the rest of Australia. 
Will the Minister provide a brief explanation of the method used to arrive at the estimates. 
What were the results of a survey commissioned by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in July 197S, along similar lines, for Australia, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. 
Will the Minister provide an explanation of any significant disparities of estimates, in the results for parts 1, 2 and 4. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. On 10 December last the Minister, in answer to a question on notice from me, informed the Senate that the Prime Minister wrote to Premiers on 3 November regarding new funding arrangements for pre-school and child care and seeking their thoughts on the form of consultative arrangements that could operate between the Commonwealth and the States on these matters. Have the Premiers replied to the Prime Minister's letter of 3 November? If so, what were the dates and the nature of their replies? 
I would like the Minister representing the Minister for Defence to inform the Senate who is responsible for approving an advertisement currently being shown on commercial television aimed at seducing young men to join the Australian Army by suggesting a number of totally unrealistic enticements to Army life, in particular by a most blatant and offensive piece of visual sexism which suggests that the army provides its soldiers with the use of beautiful young women. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. As it is now more than a year since the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Public Libraries revealed the inadequacies of the Australian public library services and recommended measures for their improvement and as, since that time, there has been no indication from the Government, apart from its referral of the report to an interdepartmental committee for its attention, can the Minister now give some indication of what steps the Government intends to take in respect of the report's recommendations? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
I present the following petition from 146 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Australian Government employees strenuously oppose the provisions of the  Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill  first introduced in the House of Representatives on 8 December 1976. The basis for opposition includes the following reasons: 
The grounds constituting 'due cause' for termination of services of tenured staff are expanded beyond those already available in existing legislation thereby introducing subjective discretionary powers which are inconsistent with career service expectations and entitlements; 
The Bill relegates to subordinate legislation or administrative direction matters affecting substantive rights of employees including the scale of compensation, the composition and powers of the appellate tribunal, and the criteria upon which services may be terminated; 
Existing rights of reinstatement in tenured employment are abrogated by the Bill; 
Agreement has not been reached on a number of matters which should have been finalised before any attempt to introduce legislation. These include: an arbitral determination on redundancy arrangements; benefits; procedures. 
As currently drafted the Bill overrides entitlements under Arbitration awards. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should reject passage of any legislation to extend powers of compulsory retirement of Australian Government employees unless and until any variation has been agreed with staff representatives. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Employment Service pays the unemployment benefit to the husband of a claimant if the claimant is a married woman instead of to the claimant herself? If this is the case, can the Minister indicate whether she approves of this discriminatory practice and, if not, what steps she will take to have the policy changed to one which does not discriminate against claimants on the basis of sex or marital status? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 31 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the incidence of accidents risen in the Australian Capital Territory since the speed limit was altered from 35 mph to 80 kph on many major roads. 
Has the seriousness of accidents increased. 
Will the Minister provide a breakdown of accidents involving cars, motor cycles, bicycles and pedestrians. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
1 ) What are the current criteria used for assessing eligibility for the supporting mother's benefit and the deserted wives' pension, 
How does the current policy of the Department of Social Security ensure that in the case of a woman who shares a house with a male with whom she does not have a de facto relationship and from whom she receives no financial support retains her eligibility to receive a pension. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
Did the Minister approve an advertisement currently being shown on commercial television aimed at seducing young men to join the Australian Army, which suggests a number of totally unrealistic aspects of army life, in particular a most blatant and offensive piece of visual sexism, suggesting that the army provides its soldiers with the use of beautiful young women. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that there is currently only one Aboriginal welfare officer in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs carrying out the job of assisting young Aborigines employed by the Department to settle into work and accommodation in Canberra? Does the Minister agree that such counselling and welfare facilities are essential if young Aborigines from isolated parts of Australia and from the Torres Strait Island are to succeed in the new work environment of Canberra? Will the Minister investigate this matter with a view to providing an adequate number of welfare officers in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for this important work? 
I rise to participate in this debate, the subject of which is probably a source of mystery to those who may be listening to the debate. We have just heard from the previous  speaker, Senator Baume,  a diatribe against those who make a career out of abusing the social security provisions. We heard very little from  Senator Baume  about the subject of the present debate; that is, the situation of unemployed school leavers who were illegally denied their right to unemployment benefits by the Fraser Government. In order to remind honourable senators and those people who may be listening to the debate exactly what the Senate is debating at this stage, I will repeat the urgency motion moved by my colleague,  Senator Grimes,  the Opposition spokesman on social security matters. He has moved that the following is a matter of urgency: 
The Government's failure to properly reconsider applications for unemployment benefit by school leavers illegally deprived of benefits at the end of the last school year following the High Court decision on the Karen Green case. 
I remind honourable senators that the High Court handed down a judgment on 1 5 April. The effect of the judgment, despite the various circumlocutions of  Senator Baume  and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  was that Karen Green and all other people who fit into the same category as Karen Green were entitled to a consideration for unemployment benefits from December 1 976. There is no ambivalence, no ambiguity in the judgment handed down by the High Court. The Government has procrastinated since 15 April when the judgment was handed down. The Government has not paid one cent, as I understand it, of the money that was illegally denied to school leavers in that period. It is now almost the end of May and no retrospective payments have been made. 
The Minister for Social Security, in following  Senator Grimes  in this debate, seemed to suggest in the case of Karen Green, the person who was the subject of the High Court challenge and who was successful, that there had been some failure to properly inform herself of the terms and conditions of the Act as they related to her special condition. I point out to the Senate that Karen Green was told by officers of the Minister's Department not to go to the the office to register as being unemployed and not to register for unemployment benefit until 1 February. This instruction to Karen Green was not just a verbal instruction; it was written on her application form. In order for Karen Green to try to get a judgment of legality regarding her claim she would have had to move before the Bench closed down for the Christmas recess. Yet she was instructed, presumably ultimately as a result of a ministerial instruction, not to attempt to register before February. It is this period of time in respect of which members of the Government are being so slippery and are attempting to misrepresent the facts that we are concerned with in this debate. We are concerned that from December until the time of the High Court judgment in April many school leavers were entitled- not all persons leaving school were entitled- to unemployment benefit. Let me make myself perfectly clear: They would have been entitled to unemployment benefit had their cases been examined. Their cases were not examined as a result of ministerial instruction. 

 Senator Baume has made much of parts of the judgment which seem to detract from the overall effect of the judgment. I point out that the DirectorGeneral of the Department of Social Security was specifically told in the judgment that he should have considered all matters relating to eligibility, the eligibility of Karen Green's case and similar cases, in December and not in February. In this matter it would appear from all the information that has come forward during the challenge and at other times that the DirectorGeneral was not allowed to exercise his discretion. The Minister, in her remarks, made a great deal of the fact that the Director-General of the Department of Social Security has a great deal of discretion under the Act. We are of course aware of that. But he can operate that discretion only within very clear instructions under the Act. He can exercise that discretion only insofar as the Minister wishes him to exercise it. 
The assertions that the Opposition is making with regard to this case are that although there are areas of discretion we believe that they were not exercised at the time when school leavers were entitled to have them exercised, and that was in December and not in February. Even today in the course of this debate the Minister has stated again clearly that it is her policy that school leavers do not have any automatic right to unemployment benefit. 
I would like to put to the Minister some questions about retrospective payments of which I believe there has been not one to this point. I would particularly like to ask her to make some comments about the role of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Has the Tribunal been considering retrospective payments? I would like to know how many appeals have been lodged with the Administrative Appeals Tribunal by school leavers who registered in December and did not receive unemployment benefit until February. I would like to know whether the Minister has issued any instructions to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in regard to its handling of such appeals. Has the Department taken any steps at all to notify school leavers who registered in November or December 1976 of their rights under the Act, particularly section 107, as confirmed by the result of the High Court challenge. 
The Opposition believes that all school leavers who registered at the time of leaving school have a right to retrospective payments. They have a right to have their case considered by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The effect of what has been said by Government supporters in this debate is that eligibility for unemployment benefit for school leavers as opposed to other people should perhaps be a matter for special benefit. I understood the Minister to have suggested that Karen Green should have applied for a special benefit rather than for unemployment benefit. 
-The Minister said that  Ms Karen  Green had been considered for special benefit. If we look at the direction issued last year by the Director-General with regard to special benefit we find that he says that the benefit ordinarily relates to hardship experienced by a person in receipt of income who suffers a sudden and unforeseen loss of that income. Clearly that set of criteria is irrelevant to school leavers, most of whom of course have no independent income and most of whom would not experience a loss of income on leaving school. However, the DirectorGeneral went on to say that hardship would be accepted where a school leaver could produce evidence that he was not living with his parents and was not being supported by his parents for a reasonable period prior to leaving school. However if his parents have maintained him at school the person cannot claim hardship and will not receive special benefit. That criterion may have enabled people in the category of mature age students who had returned to school to get special benefit on leaving school. But we are not concerned specifically with a small group of school leavers, school leavers who are in fact adults living independently but attending school. We are concerned here with the bulk of school leavers, with that group of people who, simply by a policy directive of the present Minister, were ruled to be ineligible regardless of any circumstance for regular unemployment benefit until February of this year. That is the crux of what we are debating today. 
I think that what we have witnessed with regard to the Government's action over this unemployment benefit for school leavers and its subsequent action- or should I say inactionfollowing the High Court judgment in April shows that it is an arrogant and dishonest Government which is prepared to put its own penny pinching policies ahead of the law. It appears that it is continuing to regard policy decisions and determinations as superior to the legal situation. If this Government or any other government does not want to implement a law which exists it has the option of changing that law through the processes of Parliament. When this Government decided that it did not want to pay unemployment benefit to a certain group of people- that was an arbitrary decision- instead of coming to the Parliament with an amendment to the Social Security Act to that effect it simply issued a policy directive. It is this decision, this procedure, which not only the Opposition but also the High Court considers to be illegal. 
The Minister has said that the Government is still waiting on advice from its legal advisers as to whether it should act in respect of retrospective payments. We would like to know- as would perhaps hundreds or thousands of school leavers throughout the country- what the Government is actually waiting for. The terms of the Act as restated today clearly by my colleague  Senator Colston  make it very clear that many people leaving school in fact fill the criteria for unemployment benefit. Some may not. We are not concerned with those. Very many do. To exclude this group from a benefit to which they are entitled is illegal. It seems that despite the result of the High Court challenge the Government will persist in excluding this group from receiving the benefit and it will take no steps to enable these people who have been wrongfully denied the benefit to gain retrospective payments. I should like to add that when we are talking about the Australians who have been the victims of this illegal action of the Government we are not talking about dole bludgers. In most cases we are talking about a large group of disadvantaged people- people who are disadvantaged in that they are unable to gain employment. 
The problem of unemployed school leavers is not a problem that is peculiar to Australia. It is not a problem that has arisen only in the last few years. It certainly is not a problem that has arisen specifically as a result of the actions of the Whitlam Government, as has been suggested. Studies and figures of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development show that over the last 10 years there has been a constant and rapid increase in unemployment amongst school leavers in most countries and, in particular, in countries which have comparable economic systems to ours. Another point that bears mentioning when discussing this group of people is that the particular group of school leavers mostly consists of early school leavers- those who leave at the earliest opportunity, often because of economic necessity, and those school children in whom the least amount of the educational dollar has been invested. 
In order to support that claim I should like to point out that a study carried out in September 1975 by the Department of Labor and Immigration of unemployed juniors registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service showed that of juniors registered with the CES nearly half- 47 per cent- had not gone beyond third form secondary; two-thirds had not gone beyond fourth form; and in country areas 72.4 per cent of junior unemployed males had not gone beyond fourth form. It is very clear that the majority of unemployed school leavers, the people who are the subject of this debate, are people who left school early. In terms of our current attitudes towards education, children who leave school early often leave through economic necessity. In support of that contention, I refer to the figures of the Schools Commission on school retention rates. The most recent figures show that government schools retain only 27 per cent of their students to the final year of high school; Catholic schools retain 39 per cent of their students to the final year of high school; and other nongovernment schools, that is the independent schools, retain more than 90 per cent of their students to the end of high school. 
If we put those school retention figures together with the study conducted by the Department of Labor and Immigration of unemployed juniors we can see that the unemployed school leavers with whom we are concerned are in general the products of the poorest state schools, they are the children who had the least opportunity at school and they are now the members of the work force with the least opportunity to secure employment. Added to those 2 very significant areas of disadvantage is the fact that they are the people whom this Government singled out to exclude from what is, as I said earlier and as I say again in conclusion, their right under the existing Social Services Act- that is, the right of all genuinely unemployed persons to unemployment benefit. We raised the subject as a matter of urgency - 

 Mr DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman) Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
The Senate is debating 2 Appropriation Bills. I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt.  Before proceeding to direct my remarks to the Appropriation Bills, I take this opportunity to record on behalf of my constituents, the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory, our satisfaction at the results of the recent referendums. In particular, I record the satisfaction of the constituents of the Australian Capital Territory with the decision of the rest of the Australian electorate to accord to us, the citizens of the Territories, the right to participate in future referendums affecting the Constitution. It is a most important right. It is one that Territorians have long regretted not having. We welcome this democratic decision by our fellow citizens in the Australian States. 
Let me say at this stage also that we take heart that the current attempts to reduce the democratic rights of the citizens of the Territories- attempts which are being pursued by 2 Liberal and National Country Party State governments- will not succeed. We believe that now there is a clear indication to those making decisions in these matters that the citizens of the Australian States do regard their fellow Australians in the Territories as their equals and do consider that they should have equal political rights. For this, the people of the Territories are most grateful. I suggest to the Senate that the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory demonstrated a progressive attitude to matters that might arise by way of referendum. They were given by the present Government the option to vote in the poll to choose a national tune. In the Australian Capital Territory we recorded a majority vote in favour of the tune of  Waltzing Matilda.  I think that bodes well for the future participation by citizens of the Territories in referendum proposals. 
I now turn my attention to the Appropriation Bills before us. I remind the Senate that the effect of the amendment moved by the Opposition is to criticise the Government for its economic policies- in particular, its inept economic strategy which depends on the slashing of government spending- and its failure to provide constructive alternative economic policies. Nowhere, I suggest, is the failure of such policies better demonstrated than in the national capital, in the Australian Capital Territory. I propose to relate to the Senate some distressing evidence of the failure of the Government's economic policies as it is manifested in the Australian Capital Territory. Before I do so, I should like to comment on some of the points raised by preceding speakers in this debate. 

 Senator Lajovic raised a very interesting issue with regard to future population policies in Australia, particularly as they affect immigration policies, which is a matter of great concern to all of us. He raised the subject of unemployment amongst migrant groups. He cited figures which he claimed refuted the claim by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  that migrant groups had been particularly hard hit by unemployment. By way of interjection, I tried to draw  Senator Lajovic  's attention to the fact that the figures he was quoting were by no means complete. I will now take this opportunity to clarify what I meant. As far as migrant participation in the work force is concerned, one characteristic is of particular interest. I am referring to the extremely high participation in the work force of married women of migrant background. The rate is much higher than the comparable rate for Australian born married women. This extremely high rate of participation by migrant women in the work force exists because of the need for migrant families to become established in Australia. Most of the migrant women working in Australia were working in areas such as manufacturing industry. They have been the hardest hit by the failure of the Government's economic policies as manifested in the collapse of manufacturing industry. 
Thousands upon thousands of married migrant women working in manufacturing industry have lost their jobs in the last 2 years. Those women do not appear in the unemployment statistics, because if they are married and the husband is earning more than $70 a week they are not eligible for the dole. Therefore, although they do have the right to register as unemployed, they rarely exercise that right. I might add that their plight is extremely grave in the current economic circumstances because a properly funded retraining scheme for workers made redundant through economic failure no longer exists. If  Senator Lajovic  is genuinely interested in the extent of unemployment in migrant groups, I suggest that he address himself to investigating the unemployment amongst married migrant women. I suggest also that he endeavour to get the Government, of which he is a supporter, to carry out a survey of this serious social and economic problem. At the moment the extent of unemployment in this group is unknown. If  Senator Lajovic  is genuinely interested in that subject he could aid those migrant groups who are experiencing high levels of unemployment by seeking sound data on which policies could be developed. 
For the Australian Capital Territory the Fraser Government has had two economic strategies both equally disastrous. The first was simply that of slashing public expenditure with no regard to the close inter-connection between the public and private sectors in the Australian Capital Territory. The second was an arbitrary imposition of staff ceilings throughout the Public Service. This was a crude and very ineffective method of reducing the number of persons employed as Commonwealth public servants. Both of these strategies have failed and both have brought about economic chaos and the highest unemployment figures that we have ever experienced in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I raise these matters not simply because of my parochial concern for the Australian Capital Territory but because in the Territory the Government of the day has no excuse for bad management. Federal governments can always blame the State governments for what happens in the States. They can claim that State governments are poor administrators or are not pulling their weight or maintaining their level of financial expenditure, and so on. The Government of the day can make no such claim about the national capital. It is interesting what the Federal Government does when it is unimpeded by State governments. It manages very badly and applies very crude tools to the economic situation. One example of this - it is a very important example because it affects all Australians- is the question of housing. The Government in its last Budget decided to cut the allocation for housing in the Australian Capital Territory by over 50 per cent. It cut the amount available for Commissioner for Housing Loans from $24.6m to $ 12m. 
It did a number of other things. It increased rents in some cases to the extent of 100 per cent. It imposed a means test on eligibility for Commissioner for Housing Loans and rental of Government housing which was so strict as to exclude very many medium and in some cases low income families from this form of housing. So severe was the restriction placed on the Commissioner for Housing loans that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  was embarrassed to find a couple of months ago that a large proportion of the money allocated for Commissioner for Housing loans in fact had not been borrowed by would be Canberra home buyers. This is an absurd situation given the current difficulty of gaining housing finance. It came about for 2 reasons. One was that the Government would not set a realistic means test for eligibility. It would not recognise average income or the cost of living. The other was that the Government kept the Commissioner for Housing loan, which is available at a low interest rate, at the very low figure of $ 1 5,000. Many representations have been made to the Government by people, including the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem),  to increase the amount to $20,000, which would be more realistic and which would enable people to start a home purchase; but the Government has remained deaf to all pleas. So many young families in Canberra cannot rent or buy nouses. Money allocated for the specific purpose of assisting them cannot be used because of the unrealistic attitude of the Government. 
The effect on the housing industry has caused distress and disappointment on families anxious to get their own home. The Government's attitude has also caused disaster in the building and construction industry. A report in the  Canberra Times  on Friday, 20 May, stated: 
The A.C.T. had nearly the lowest rate of housing commencements during the March quarter due to the Government 's policy of curtailing growth in the Territory, an official of the Master Builders Federation of Australia said yesterday. 
Note the source of the criticism. 
The vice-president, housing, of the federation,  Mr M.  N. Mitchell, was commenting on preliminary building estimates for the March quarter issued by the Bureau of Statistics yesterday. 
The figures showed that 620 houses were commenced in the A.C.T. during the March quarter, compared with 670 commencements during the December quarter. This was a fall of 7.5 per cent. 
The number of new houses approved in the A.C.T. during the March quarter was 340, compared with 790 approvals during the December quarter, a fall of 60 per cent. 
The number of new houses completed during the latest quarter was 540, compared with 970 completed previously. This was a fall of 54.4 per cent. 

 Mr Mitchell said that the building slump throughout Australia which was evident in the housing industry was reflected in the March figures. 

 Mr Mitchell said some of the problems affecting the building slump needed long-term solutions. But other solutions could be effected 'in reasonably short terms with minimum impact on economic strategy if the Government has the will and is prepared to consider selective measures'. 
I will repeat that proviso. It comes from the Master Builders Federation. It states that the problem could be ameliorated if the Government had the will and was prepared to consider selective measures. The report went on: 
Some of these solutions included changes in the security deposit ratio for savings banks, a release of trading bank controls in regards to housing finance and an indexing of government loans closer to the real cost of housing. 
The Government could follow such strategies. It would lose nothing by doing so other than losing face because it would be admitting that its previous strategy had been wrong. It could bring home purchase within the reach of many families and it could give much needed stimulation to the building and construction industry. I hope that  Senator Cotton  will take note of the recommendations made by the Master Builders Federation. 
The effect of an across the board crude reduction in Public Service staff ceilings also has been disastrous in the Australian Capital Territory. It is not the position of the Opposition, nor was it the position of the Australian Labor Party when in government, that the bureaucracy must continue to grow and expand. It is not our position now that there is no case for rationalisation of resources within the Public Service. Despite accusations to the contrary, we were not and are not a bureaucratic-minded party. However, the Coombs report made several excellent recommendations for rationalising the number of people employed as Commonwealth public servants, but instead of taking note of those recommendations the Fraser Government simply imposed a figure down to which various Public Service departments had to go within a specific time. It gave no opportunity for sound management including staff management. It gave no recognition to the career structure of the Public Service. It was merely a crude way of reducing numbers. It has reduced numbers but it has meant that whereas some departments have adequate numbers of officers to perform tasks other departments are now desperately understaffed. Several of these departments are central to the administration of the Australian Capital Territory. The Department of the Capital Territory itself is suffering from severe staff shortages. One example is that the transport section has a 3-month pile up of work. When some urgent need with regard to traffic control or some other matter of vital concern to the community arises staff simply is not available to do the work. Similarly, the decision to reduce the number of ancillary staff in schools in the Australian Capital Territory has caused a great deal of industrial trouble. There have been more problems with the Australian Capital Territory Teachers Federation during the period ofthe Fraser Administration than ever previously. The situation is still unsatisfactory in that there is still inadequate ancillary staff in the Australian Capital Territory schools and the education of the children suffers. 
Another example of mismanagement, I think, is to be found in the Government's attitude to providing financial assistance to Koomarri. Koomarri is an excellent institution and one which has a great deal of support from the Australian Capital Territory community. The Koomarri complex includes a pre-school, a school for handicapped children, sheltered workshops for handicapped persons and various other programs, shops and enterprises which provide income for running the Koomarri organisation. However, being the sort of institution that it is, it does require government support. Expecting that government support would be maintained at previous levels, Koomarri expanded its operations in order to provide more facilities for handicapped persons and children in the Australian Capital Territory. But the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  was unable to maintain the level of funding which would have allowed Koomarri to expand its operations as required. As a result Koomarri has had to reduce the services it has offered. 
It has a waiting list of 30 handicapped persons for accommodation and 30 persons are waiting for places in the sheltered workshops. There are 50 children in special schools on a waiting list to move into the sheltered workshop position in the next 3 years. I would have thought that an institution like Koomarri, which makes strenuous and effective efforts to raise revenue on its own through its shops, its carpentry workshops and so forth, would attract a greater degree of assistance than it has been successful in attracting to date. I again suggest that in this debate on the Appropriation Bills we are criticising the shortsightedness of the Government in failing to give adequate financial support to institutions such as Koomarri. 
It has been suggested by  Senator Knight  that the Labor Government refused to build the Koomarri school. The facts, of course, are quite different from what he suggests. The Koomarri school was planned for a long time. Its financial allocation was approved in the last Labor Budget. Because that Budget was never implemented there was yet another delay. I am pleased to say that funds have now been made available for that purpose. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to the extent of unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory. The April figures show that 4496 persons are registered as unemployed in the Australian Capital Territory. That is an extremely high figure. It is the highest number of unemployed we have ever had in the Australian Capital Territory. However, we find that there are only 748 job vacancies. So however much Government members may like to cry 'dole bludgers' and talk about the availability of work and people not being prepared to go out and find it, the statistics, which everyone knows are a very conservative estimate of the real picture, show that there is a shortfall of almost 4000 job vacancies in the Australian Capital Territory, even if one could match persons with jobs perfectly, which of course one cannot do. 
The Government has made no attempt in its policies towards the Australian Capital Territory to take constructive action on that unemployment figure. Of course the explanation is quite clear. Whereas the Public Service once provided a career opportunity for school leavers and for graduates of the various tertiary institutions in the Australian Capital Territory, it no longer offers such an opportunity because the number of new appointments to the Public Service has been pathetically low. Similarly the building and construction industry, which once took on a large number of apprentices and employed a high number of skilled and unskilled workers, is now retrenching employees at a drastic rate. The only alternative strategy which the Minister for the Capital Territory has been able to devise is one that is so absurd and so dangerous that responsible citizens in the Australian Capital Territory are amazed that he suggested it. The alternative strategy put forward by the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Staley,  to deal with the economic problems of the Australian Capital Territory is to establish a casino- a large gambling house- which is supposed somehow or other to produce funds to solve all of our economic problems. I think the absurdity of that suggestion speaks for itself. 
In conclusion I draw attention to a very serious matter which affects not only people in the Australian Capital Territory but also people throughout Australia. It is a matter which I have raised many times in the Senate and one which is still unresolved. I refer to the financial plight of women's refuges in the Australian Capital Territory and throughtout Australia. I shall read to the Senate a letter written to the Prime Minister  (Mr Fraser)  by the Co-ordinator of the Canberra Women's Refuge, because I think it summarises and expresses very clearly the problems being faced by women's refuges and the failure to date of the Government to face its responsibilities in that regard. 
I hope  Senator Knight  listens to me as I read the letter. Perhaps he has received a copy of it. It reads: 
Dear  Mr Fraser: 
The total bed occupancy of women and children at the Canberra Women 's Refuge in the first three months of 1 977 only, was 1896 people. That is an average of 21 persons per night which is very crowded! It is estimated that in the financial year ending this month that 200 women and 300 children will have used the Canberra Women's Refuge. We need more than $20,000 per annum to keep the refuge functioning effectively. 
Over and above this fact however, the members of the Canberra Women's Refuge wish to stress the urgency of the need for funding for all community-based women's refuges presently struggling to function throughout Australia. 
None of the women 's refuges that have been opened since your party came to power in 1975 have received any government funding. 
At the present time there are twenty funded refuges. There are up to thirty more needing funding; two previously funded (Queensland); - 
They have been shut- 14-20 operating without funds; one that closed in January 1977 due to lack of funds and seven that are ready to open, with houses if financial assistance is available. 
Those that have been running unfunded for the last year or two, cannot do so for another year or two while the Federal Government takes time to decide on a future Refuge Program. 
If these refuges are not granted reasonable funding for the fiscal year 1 977-78, many more will be forced to close down. This will be a tragedy for Australian society as a whole and for the individual women and children who will be forced, because of no option to remain at the mercy of violence and/or alcoholic and mentally cruel husbands and fathers. 
All refuges need funding for running costs and several paid workers, who, freed from economic pressures of their own, are able to give enough time and energy, providing continuity and taking overall responsibility for the daily running of the refuge. 
The relatively small cost of funding fifty women's refuges throughout Australia should be compared with the escalation in costs to our society if refuges cease to function. For instance, in many cases women under pressure from their home situations may finally succumb to the extent of requiring psychiatric and in-patient treatment, with complete care of their children usually being taken over by a government institution. 
As we believe that you and the vast majority of parliamentarians regard women's refuges as worthwhile and necessary to Australia in 1977 and the immediate future, we ask that you guarantee funding for all these women 's refuges that are constantly filled to capacity. All refuges that have applied for assistance should be funded directly from the Federal Government now rather than just those presently funded, as these refuges are only funded on the ad hoc basis of having applied before June 1 975. 
Yours sincerely, CHRIS HILVERT Canberra Women's Refuge 
I conclude my remarks with the plea that the Government take note of the plight of women's refuges throughout Australia. That matter has been raised, as I said, many times in this chamber. The Government has had sufficient time to investigate the needs and to establish the criteria to set up funding mechanisms. I hope that we will not have to rise again in this chamber to ask for financial support for this basic community facility. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) Will visits to schools by Australian Capital Territory policemen be curtailed owing to the cutbacks in the Force. 
How many visits were made by policemen to Australian Capital Territory schools in 1976 and how many visits are planned in 1977. 
At what level will the programs being conducted by the Traffic Centre at Deakin continue in 1 977. 
At what level will programs being conducted by the Juvenile Aid Bureau continue in 1 977. 
Can the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  indicate at this point what funding will be available for the Community Relations Office, the establishment of which was provided for in the Racial Discrimination Act 1975. I understand the Office is now to be returned to the Attorney-General's Department. I am particularly interested in what resources will be available for the education functions that Office was previously performing. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
How many people will comprise the full time secretariat assisting  Dr David  Myers, C.M.G., in his inquiry into the unemployment benefit policy and administration. 
What is the estimated cost of this inquiry. 
Will submissions be sought from members of the public. 
Will there be open hearings. If so, how many, when and where. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Government decided Australia cannot afford to participate in the World Fertility Survey. 
What is the number and names of the countries that have decided to participate in this international research survey. 
Will the Minister institute an urgent re-examination of the question of Australia 's participation in this survey. 
On what demographic basis is the Government now proceeding to re-formulate its immigration policies in the absence not only of this survey/but also of any detailed analysis of the 1976 Census. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide a list  of  all programs in the Australian Capital Territory dealt with by the Department  of  Social Security in New South Wales. 
) What is the Budget allocation for each such program in New South Wales for 1976-77. 
Will the Minister provide a list of any programs directly dealt with by the Department of Social Security in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Will the Minister provide information on the budget allocation for each such program in the Australian Capital Territory in 1976-77. 
I present 2 petitions, similar in wording from 1184 and 1224 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that all people have the right to education,' irrespective of class, age, sex, sexuality and ethnic background, and that it is the responsibility of Government to ensure that sufficient funds are allocated to protect that right. Your petitioners believe that: 
. Education is a right and not a privilege to be paid for. 
A loans scheme would discriminate against the most needy students. 
If all students were eligible for the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme and received an adequate TEAS allowance there would be no need for student loans. 
Students should not be forced to incur debts in order to receive an education. 
Your petitioners therefore pray that the needs based grants scheme should in no way be jeopardised by any other program of student assistance, including partial, supplementary or comprehensive loans scheme. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters. It regards reports that the Government is to abolish paternity leave and severely curtail maternity leave. I ask the Minister: On what evidence of abuse of maternity leave and paternity leave did the Government base its decisions? What consultations did the Government have with relevant unions regarding those decisions? Will the changes be made by means of legislation passed by the Parliament or merely by a regulation? Specifically, can the Minister clarify whether a full 52 weeks' maternity leave, including the 12 weeks' paid leave, will still be available to mothers who qualify under the new provisions? 
The Senate has before it very controversial and complex legislation which is a series of amendments to the Trade Practices Act. The Opposition opposes this legislation. It does so not only because the legislation contains many offensive and dangerous provisions but also because of the way in which the Government has handled the legislation- because of the way in which the Government has introduced the legislation, first of all into the House of Representatives and now into the Senate, providing no time for adequate discussion or even for adequate comprehension of the legislation by members and senators. 
My colleague  Senator Button,  who led the Opposition debate in this matter, has foreshadowed an amendment which we very much hope that Government senators will support. The amendment seeks to send this extremely controversial and complex legislation to a Select Committee where proper consideration of the more controversial clauses could take place. As has already been said in the course of this debate, the original purpose of the trade practices legislation was to prevent a variety of malpractices in business, particularly malpractices having a deleterious effect on small traders and on consumers. The legislation was primarily intended to enable the free enterprise system to work. It was never intended to make trade practices legislation into an additional piece of machinery to control industrial relations. The 1965 trade practices legislation exempted unions from its provision, and that exemption was generally continued in the 1 974 legislation. 
A Government senator interjects and asks why unions should be exempt. It is very clear that there is in Australia a very adequate, comprehensive conciliation and arbitration system for controlling industrial matters. It is a very poor approach to legislation to try to do many conflicting things within the one piece of legislation. The purpose of the legislation before us is not to ensure free trade and competition, or not primarily to do that, as the Government has claimed; the main purpose of the legislation before us is to curtail severely and unnecessarily the legal rights of trade unions. I emphasise that it is most inappropriate to attempt to regulate industrial activity through the trade practices legislation when the adequate conciliation and arbitration machinery exists. Not only is it inappropriate; it is also dishonest. The Government has presented this legislation as if it were simply a series of amendments to trade practice. It has presented the legislation in a hasty, ill-prepared way, arguing that it is simply a machinery matter which is not of wide interest in the community but which is mainly of a technical nature. In fact many of the provisions of the legislation are so wide that I would say that this legislation will affect all persons who are members of trade unions, and that is the majority of the work force. It will affect all individuals in the community who may wish to make active protests against some corporate body. 
The entire union movement is opposed to this legislation for the reason, I suggest, that the union movement understands the legislation. I have received representations from unions of widely different political complexion, ranging from the Australian Capital Territory Teachers Federation to the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union against this legislation. All unions are opposed to this legislation because they understand it. I contend that all members of the community would be actively opposed to it if they understood it. In handling this particular aspect of its attack on the trade union movement I think that the Government has been particularly dishonest. It has focused attention on another aspect of its legislation- that is, the legislation which passed through the Senate last night, the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill. It focused attention on the controversial provisions relating to the Industrial Relations Bureau. Pursuing a pattern which this Government seems to have adopted, it started off by announcing draconian measures in regard to an industrial relations bureau. It then went through a period during which it appeared to negotiate and compromise with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. It finally produced legislation which was much less severe in its effect than the original legislation and claimed great reasonableness and willingness to compromise and negotiate. As I said, it is a pattern that we have observed in the way in which this Government handles controversial legislation. It starts off threatening the worst so that when it turns out to be not the worst but only the second worst with which we are confronted we are supposed to feel relieved and even grateful. 
Because the Government managed to direct attention towards the Industrial Relations Bureau, very little attention- certainly in the broad community- has been paid to the various provisions within the Trade Practices Amendment Bill. My colleague  Senator Button  has already mentioned the very distressing fact that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  who handled this legislation in the other place introduced 12 pages of substantive amendments during the course of a debate. That in itself was enough thoroughly to confuse those members of the House of Representatives engaged in the debate, so how much more confused will the wider community be? As I have said, this is a Bill which can ultimately affect any individual in the community who may wish to take a certain kind of action. 
I would like to draw attention to one aspect of the legislation which has received very little attention, and that is its consumer protection provisions. We recognise that in some ways the consumer protection provisions in this Bill have been improved. Various areas have been brought within consumer protection provisions. In general we would say that clauses 27 to 48 in Part V of the Act are commendable in that they improve the range of actions which may come within the consumer protection legislation. But if we turn to clause 5 1, the clause dealing with defence to a charge of violating consumer protection provisions, we find that the defence is considerably weakened and thus the position of the consumer has been considerably weakened. At this point I would like to read out the original provisions regarding defence and the new amended provisions introduced by the Government, to demonstrate how they have been weakened. 
The original defence with regard to consumer protection acts was that the contravention in respect of which the proceeding was instituted was due to a mistake, to reliance on information supplied by another person, to the act or default of another person, to an accident or some other cause beyond the control of the defendant or that the defendant took reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to avoid the contravention. That very satisfactory form of defence has been weakened to this: 
that the contravention in respect of which the proceeding was instituted was due to reasonable mistake; 
that the contravention in respect of which the proceeding was instituted was due to reasonable reliance on information supplied by another person; or 
that- 
the contravention in respect of which the proceeding was instituted was due to the act or default of another person, to an accident or some other cause beyond the defendant's control; and 
the defendant took reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to avoid the contravention. 
We notice there that the obligation on the defendant to take reasonable precautions and exercise due diligence applies only to (c) where the act was due to that of another person and not to a reasonable mistake or to reliance on information supplied by another person. The defence regarding the mistake or reliance on information supplied by another person is reduced to this concept of 'reasonable', which I think is much weaker than the previous obligation whereby the defendant was required to show that he had taken reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence. So although the terms of the consumer protection provisions are widened, the defence is weakened. We of the Opposition are opposed to that. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  claimed that the legislation was concerned mainly with preventing secondary boycotts. I would say that virtually the only thing that the consumer and the individual in the community know about is that it is primarily aimed at preventing secondary boycotts. The Minister's claim is actually quite misleading. The entire provisions of clause 25 and in particular the provisions of proposed new section  45D  are much wider than the Minister claims. If we have a look at who and what are encompassed by proposed new section  45d  we see just how wide-ranging the provision actually is and how it could affect all trade unions and the entire community. Proposed new section  45D  begins: 
1 ) Subject to this section, a person shall not, in concert with another person, engage in conduct that hinders or prevents the supply of goods or services by a third person to a corporation . . . 
That is the purpose of the clause. The previous draft of the legislation included the word 'employee'. Now the terminology is broadened to include the word 'person'. That person may or may not be an employee. That person could be, for example, a student protesting against some injustice. That person could be a consumer protesting against dishonest business practice. All of them are brought within the scope of the legislation by the use of the word 'person'. As my colleague  Senator Button  pointed out, a person could also be a union, which as a corporate body. Unions will be brought into the provisions under sub-sections (5) and (6) of section  45D.  Subsection (5) of section  45d  states: 
If two or more persons each of whom is a member or officer of the same organisation of employees ... engage in conduct in concert with one another, whether or not the conduct is also engaged in concert with other persons, the organisation shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to engage in that conduct in concert with the participants . . . 
In the case of 2 persons who may be members of a trade union acting without the consent of the other members of the trade union, the union itself becomes liable to the penalties. 
That is not the point of the legislation. The point of the legislation is to trap the unions by the actions of 2 members, whether or not those 2 members are acting with the agreement of the rest of the union. I think that this is a dangerous aspect of the legislation. It does not refer to what unions may do collectively. The union will be deemed to be responsible and if it is found liable, a penalty of up to $250,000 will be imposed under section  45D.  This is an extremely severe penalty. It is a new penalty and one which should not be implemented under the trade practices legislation but through the proper body for implementing penalties relating to industrial activities, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Insofar as it can be implemented under the provisions of the trade practices legislation, it is a new penalty. 
I am sure that  Senator Wright  will raise all these matters in great detail at the Committee stage. I would like to proceed now to make preliminary comments on the exemption provision contained in section  45D,  that is, sub-section (3). Much has been made by Government speakers in the other place with regard to the exemption clause in order to exonerate themselves from the accusation that they are seeking to nobble trade unions in this legislation. There is an exemption clause but it seems to me that many classes of industrial action that unions or members of unions may wish to take and, in my view, may wish to take legitimately, will in fact not be exempted under sub-section (3). I would like to give an example of the kind of actions which unions and union members may wish to take which will not be exempted. One would be if women working in a factory under very poor conditions wished to take some sort of industrial action to gain a benefit, such as child care facilities or the facility to learn English during the course of their working day. This is the sort of action which does not receive a great deal of publicity in the Press. The media is much more interested in industrial action of the kind taken recently by the air traffic controllers. Action of that kind, of course, draws a great deal of hostile criticism from the community. It is action of a kind which the present Government is able very easily to use in its campaign against unions. It is action which is generally unacceptable. However, workers are not all people earning as much as air traffic controllers earn, although their income was grossly exaggerated by Government supporters during the dispute. Workers are often people working in extremely poor conditions for very low pay. 
I refer very briefly at this point to a study of such workers, which was a study of women migrant workers in factories in Melbourne. This report was undertaken in  1975  as a research report for International Women's Year by the Centre for Urban Research and Action in Fitzroy, Victoria. The report starts with this quotation from the Jackson Report: 
The work force is multi-racial and multi-cultural. Four out of ten were born outside Australia. They most frequently do the dirtiest, least skilled, menial tasks; tasks for which, despite unemployment, young native-born Australians cannot be found. Women are a quarter of the work force and in some sectors eight out of ten. Little attention is paid to their special needs, particularly of the two-thirds who are married. The married migrant woman in industry is trebly disadvantaged. 
That was from Green Paper No.  2.  This report, to which I have referred, explored the claim about married migrant women in industry being trebly disadvantaged and found that that was the case. If the conditions of married migrant women working in such places are to be improved, they will be improved only by actions of the workers themselves. Some of the actions would not be simple, straight forward industrial matters which are excluded under sub-section 
of section  45D.  Matters like child care, access to health services and the ability to learn English so that they may know their rights as workers could very well not fit into the exemption defined in sub-section  3.  If the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  disagrees with me and believes that such actions would be exempt, I would be very pleased if he would clarify that at the Committee stage of the debate. 
It is not clear what working conditions mean in section  45D.  I feel optimistic that perhaps such actions will be exempted from the provisions of section  45D.  Some Government supporters seem to be of that view, judging by their interjections. If that is the case, I hope that the Minister will spell out exactly that when persons take such action, their union will not find itself liable to a fine of up to  $250,000. 

 - Senator Wright has posed a question about secondary boycott. It is the contention of the Opposition that not only secondary boycotts are covered by the provisions of section  45D.  Again, it will be for the Minister to clarify at the Committee stage of the debate whether that is or is not the case. It seems to the Opposition that all kinds of strikes would be proscribed by this legislation because of the wide-ranging terminology of section  45D,  especially the terminology of the exemption clause. If the Government wanted to hit at the right to strike in legislation, it should have made it perfectly clear that that is what it was doing, instead of pretending that it was concerned only with secondary boycotts. 
If we look at the wording of the exemption clause, we find that exemption will take place where the dominant purpose for which the conduct is engaged in is substantially related to remuneration. The Opposition finds the phrase dominant purpose' quite ambiguous. Who is to decide whether the purpose of a certain act is the dominant purpose or a secondary purpose? What body is the properly constituted body to decide such matters, with regard to industrial actions? The Opposition contends that the Trade Practices Commission is not the appropriate body, and that the appropriate body is the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This is a situation where there could be conflicting interpretations of industrial action by two different bodies. The Trade Practices Commission could decide that a certain act had as its dominant purpose the improvement of conditions and the Conciliation and Arbitration Act could decide that it had as its dominant purpose some other purpose. 

 - Senator Wright suggests that 10 tribunals might decide differently. I think that suggestion supports what I am saying. We have a tribunal. We have machinery to decide on industrial matters and faults, and how penalties should be imposed. I refer to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. To set up in this quasi form another body to decide on industrial matters- the Trade Practices Commission- is quite wrong and could lead to conflict and, consequently, to serious industrial unrest. We contend that under this legislation unions will be unprotected against new and severe penalties in respect of any industrial activity which has the effect of causing damage to a corporation. For that reason we oppose the legislation in its p resent form. As my colleague  Senator Button  as foreshadowed, we shall be moving an amendment to send the entire legislation to a select committee of  the Senate. 
In conclusion I will summarise the kinds of provisions that we find most offensive and most unacceptable and which justify the sending of this legislation to a select committee. The use of the term 'engage in conduct' at the beginning of proposed new section 45D is extremely wide. We contend that in its present form it could encompass almost any action in which an individual or a union may engage. Many genuine industrial matters would remain outside the exemption in proposed new section 45D (3). For example, demarcation disputes, political strikes, green bans and, perhaps of more importance, genuine community protests would not be exempt as the legislation is at present drafted. Most secondary boycotts related to industrial matters are not exempt, the exception being if a secondary boycott is applied against the same employer. This would mean that sympathy strikes and bans are subject to penalties under the provision. The test for union involvement is a matter of great concern. It is simply this: If two or more persons, each of whom is a member or an officer of the same organisation of employees, engage in conduct outlined in the legislation, that provision could result in majority liability for minority action and would open the gateways to dissident minorities and agents provocateur. 
Whilst the Government claims that individuals are exempt if they collude with other unionists, that applies only in the case where the union itself is held responsible. If the union exempts itself from the action by virtue of being able to demonstrate that it took all reasonable steps to prevent the participants from engaging in that conduct, it would appear to us that the individuals are responsible. Again we seek clarification on that point. 
I think that is for the Minister to define. These are the things we are objecting to in the legislation. Terms like 'dominant purpose' and 'engage in conduct' are so widereaching as to make this a totally unacceptable piece of legislation. The main effect of the legislation if passed in its present form would be to impose extraordinary limitations on the actions of trade unions and on the actions of individuals. Therefore in conclusion I repeat that the Opposition rejects this legislation. We expect that in the course of the debate and particularly in the Committee stage the Minister may come to our point of view that the most constructive action the Government can take with this controversial piece of legislation is to refer it to a select committee of the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) Were increased rentals for housing ranging from 26.7 per cent to 44.2 per cent to take effect from 14 April 1 977 for the Royal Australian Air Force and15 April 1977 for the Royal Australian Navy and Army announced in February 1 977. If so, were these increases not effected due to the current wage/price freeze. 
Is it correct that under the Group Rental Scheme any rental budgeted for and not returned to revenue has to be made up in the following year. If so, what assurances can the Minister give that the shortfall in revenue caused by the price freeze will not be imposed on servicemen next April when rents are due to go up again. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, refers to the guidelines for the 1978-1980 rolling triennium for education funding which the Minister has just released. The guidelines recommend that the Schools Commission cut spending on joint programs for services and development and special projects, which is the innovations program, by $4m. Is this drastic cut in the only program to which all schools, teachers and parents have access being made partly in order to provide for the amount of $2m the Government envisages being allocated in 1978 to schools in levels 1 and 2, the 2 top categories of nongovernment schools? Does this recommended reallocation of funds from a general program to the better off non-government schools signify an end to the policy of funding schools on the basis of need? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Button  to the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill 1977. The amendment reads: 
At end  of motion,  add-  but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for (a) the establishment of an independent statutory Legal Aid Commission to finance, co-ordinate and provide legal assistance in Australia, and (b) the provision of such funds as are necessary to meet the needs  of legal  aid in Australia. '. 
In the last few months a significant group of Government senators have made many dramatic and much publicised statements regarding the role of the Senate in our political system. They have stressed, for particular purposes, the role of the Senate as the House of review. They claimed during the recent referendums campaign that the independence of the Senate in its role as a House of review and other roles was being eroded by the referendum proposals put forward by the Government. It repeated the claim that the Senate is a States' House, it is different from the House of Representatives, it has a difficult role to play and that that role must not be tampered with or eroded in any way. It would seem that these statements, which were made by this significant group of Government senators, were in fact hollow and hypocritical. I make that claim because I would say that far from being a House of review the Senate in the last couple of weeks has not even been a mere duplication of the House of Representatives. The Senate has had less, not more, time to debate and consider the controversial and complex legislation that has come before it. 
The failure of the Senate to be able to act as a House of review or even a House in which reasonable debate can take place is clearly exemplified in the Government's handling of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill that is .before us. It has been introduced, as my colleague  Senator Button  pointed out, in the final stages of this session. It has been introduced with totally inadequate time being made available for discussion. It has been introduced in such an unsatisfactory form that the Opposition has had to move an amendment that it be withdrawn and redrafted. 
The legislation before us has 2 main functions. One is to disband the Australian Legal Office and the national legal aid service with the hope, not even the guarantee, that it will be replaced by 6 State and 2 territorial legal aid commissions. The second function of the Bill is to set up a legal aid commission which, to quote again from the  Canberra Times  editorial of yesterday 'will be nothing more than a watchdog advisory panel for the Attorney-General'. Why is it that the Government is not prepared to subject this legislation to public scrutiny. As has been pointed out, in 1975 when the Labor Government introduced a legal aid commission Bill,  Mr Ellicott,  who is now the Attorney-General, and  Mr Howard,  who is now the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, asked that Labor's legal aid Bill be referred to a select committee. Why then will not the Government members and Government supporters allow the same consideration of their own Bill which has been introduced so speedily and in such unsatisfactory form? 
There are other questions I would like to put to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  who represents the Attorney-General in this place. How will the poor and needy get legal aid after the passage of this Bill which it appears the Government is determined to railroad through today? After this Bill is forced through, what will happen? Legal aid, according to this Bill, will be administered by State and territorial commissions. But as of now, as we debate this legislation now, there is no State or territorial commission. There is no functioning State legal aid commission in any State. There is no territorial commission in either of the Territories. 
Although Western Australia has passed legislation to set up a legal aid commission, that commission has not yet been established. Although I understand that the Attorney-General of Western Australia has been negotiating with the Federal Attorney-General for financial arrangements in order to fund legal aid through the West Australian State legal aid commission, no financial agreement has been reached. The same situation prevails in South Australia. It is now some months since the South Australian Parliament passed legislation to set up a South Australian legal aid commission. Yet, no financial arrangements have been made. There is no legal aid commission in South Australia. Queensland and Tasmania have not even begun negotiations. 
An ordinance has been drafted to set up a legal aid commission in the Australian Capital Territory. That ordinance is being discussed by interested members of the community and the legal profession. But again there are no funding arrangements. In the case of the Australian Capital Territory there is not even any executive or administrative body that could administer a territorial legal aid commission because we are still waiting on the Fraser Government to decide on the devolution of powers to a territorial assembly of the Australian Capital Territory. So the provision for legal aid to be administered through State and territorial commissions is premature. There are no such commissions; there are no funding arrangements. The passage of this Bill will mean nothing in terms of setting up, as  Senator Tehan  has claimed, a new system of funding and administering legal aid. 
The Australian Government Lawyers Association opposes the abolition of the national service. This is what will happen following the passage of this Bill. We on the Opposition side support the views of that Association in this matter. It seems to us highly unlikely that small separate legal salaried services in States and Territories will be able to attract lawyers of the same calibre as a national legal aid service has done. 
Or of the dedication, as my colleague  Senator Button  points out. It seems to us too that there will be a reduction in expertise following the fragmentation of the national service. The kinds of cases that come before legal aid practitioners are of a special kind. They are usually cases in which the poor and the needy in our community are involved. A national service can evolve an expertise in those areas. But that expertise will be fragmented along with the administrative fragmentation of the legal aid services provided for in this legislation. Similarly, there will be a lack of mobility from State to State or from State to Territory for legal officers. At the moment, under a national scheme where a legal aid officer has a language specialty or expertise in a certain area, that officer could travel to Victoria from South Australia or to a Territory in order to participate in offering legal services where that specialty is needed. Such mobility is desirable; such mobility will be prevented by the setting up of 6 State and 2 Territorial services. 
We also anticipate that there will be long delays in reaching agreements about the transfer of staff, although there is provision for the preservation of some rights of officers who are currently members of the national legal aid service. We anticipate that there will be delays and difficulties just as we anticipate very long delays in finally reaching financial agreements with the States and the Territories over funding matters. It seems to us that the ALAO is to be another victim of this Government's federalism policies and, more importantly, the people who are recipients of aid, the clients of the ALAO, are also to be the victims of federalism. 
At this stage I ask: What is the present Government's stance on legal aid? It was very clear under the Labor Government that there was a commitment to providing equality under the law; that there was a belief that equality under the law was an essential aspect of a democratic system. This same view is expressed by Ronald Sackville, the Commissioner who inquired into the law in relation to poverty and produced the report on legal aid. Commissioner Sackville said: 
Lawyers and laymen alike consider it unthinkable that the legal system should discriminate against a person simply because he is poor. Yet even on these  uncontentious  criteria the law has Tailed to accord equal treatment to all people and has therefore contributed to the perpetuation of poverty in Australia. 
It was in order to break that cycle of the perpetuation of poverty in Australia by way of providing equal access to the law that the Australian Labor Government established an Australian Legal Aid Office and a national legal aid service. Now the whole system is to be radically altered. 
I draw to the attention of the Senate the principles of legal aid which were set out in the Sackville report. There were 9 principles which I believe would be uncontentious in theory amongst all honourable senators. Yet on each principle that is set out the legislation before us falls short. The first principle is: 
Legal aid agencies should provide a full range of services for individuals who require legal advice or assistance, but are unable to alford the fees of private practitioners. 
In commenting on that principle, I point out that the ALAO can provide advice to anyone who walks in off the street and asks for it. They may not need legal assistance; they may merely need advice. Private solicitors of course are not equipped to provide free advice in that fashion. As to the criterion of providing aid to those who are unable to afford the fees, we are very pessimistic about the lack of financial agreements in this Bill. There is no guarantee that funds for aid will be sufficient for all those who cannot afford fees. The second principle set out in the Sackville report states: 
Legal aid schemes should seek to stimulate legal reforms in the interests of poor and disadvantaged groups in the community. 
Again I point out that there is no provision for law reform initiatives in the legislation before us. Certainly, the Commission may decide that it wants to do this; but it is not provided for in the functions set out in clause 6 of the Bill. I say, in passing, that a couple of the functions of the Commission set out in clause 6 of the Bill are ones which we in the Opposition are pleased to see and which we support. One such function is found in clause 6 (c) which states: 
to collect and publish statistics concerning the operation of schemes for the provision of legal assistance in Australia. 
Another aspect is set out in sub-clause (h), which states: 
to advise the Attorney-General as to the educational programs that would be effective in promoting an understanding by the public, or by sections of the public that have special needs in this respect, of their rights, powers, privileges and duties under laws in force in Australia. 
We support both those functions; that is, the collecting of statistics and the mounting of public education campaigns. There is no provision for initiatives with regard to law reform. I contend that, with the breaking up of a national legal aid service, the likelihood of initiatives coming from legal aid lawyers is diminished. The third principle set out in the Sackville report is: 
Legal aid services should be readily accessible to all who need them and thus should be located not only in central city areas but within the communities they are intended to serve. 
I say that national planning according to needs is much better done through a national service and that the Federal Government, in withdrawing from this national service, is abrogating a responsibility which it assumed on taking office. It seems to me to be less likely that 6 State and 2 territorial commissions will be able to plan the proper disposition of legal aid services so that all people have access to them. The fifth principle states: 
While it is proper to conserve resources by imposing means tests and other eligibility requirements as well as contributions from applicants, these should be administered flexibly and in a manner that does not deter persons requiring legal aid from applying for assistance. 
I comment here that there is no indication in the legislation before us that adequate funds will be available so that the means test can be realistic. I remind those honourable senators who seems to be preoccupied with some other matter at the moment that after the change of government the Attorney-General reduced the means test for eligibility for legal aid to a level well below the poverty line- something approximately $40 a week. Above that amount one was not entitled to legal aid. It is very clear that many people in our community who have an income of more than $40 a week certainly would need legal aid. Another principle relates to providing proper remuneration for private practitioners assisting legally aided persons. That can be done only if there are adequate funds. The eighth principle states: 
Legal aid agencies should be accountable to the community they serve and therefore members of local communities should participate in the administration of legal aid services to the maximum extent possible. 
My colleague  Senator Button  has drawn attention already to the inadequacy of the composition of the membership of the Commission from this point of view. There is only one place on the Commission for a non-lawyer. We submit that there should be a much wider community representation. A person who works in and is dedicated to legal aid should be included on the Commission. This is different from a lawyer who takes some legal aid cases. This principle of requiring community involvement certainly is not embodied in the legislation before us. The ninth principle set out in the Sackville report is: 
In allocating public funds to legal aid schemes, account should be taken of the need to ensure that resources are used efficiently. 
Surely the most efficient use of resources would be achieved by building up and expanding a national service, lt seems to me to be unavoidable that inefficiency will result from breaking a national scheme down into 6 State and 2 territorial schemes. We are totally dissatisfied with the legislation in its present form. We believe that recipients and potential recipients of legal aid are dissatisfied with it. We believe that the practitioners of legal aid in this country, those people who are dedicated to legal aid, also are dissatisfied with it. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Button. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on the 15 March 1977: 
1 ) How many adult migrants are attending Adult Migrant Education Service English classes in New South Wales in 1977. 
Of these how many are attending 6 hour per day courses and how many are attending the 4 hour per day courses. 
3 ) What were the comparable figures in 1976. 
What means of publicity are used and how much is spent on publicising these English classes. 
Is there any preparation going on for a new English text book to replace the book which has been in existence for 25 years. If so, when will new text books be available. 
If migrants are illiterate in their own languages, what provision is made for special courses to make them literate in English. If so, what extra funds are allocated to this. 
7 ) Is the amount of money provided adequate, or will the Minister consider allocating more funds to Adult Migrant Education Service English classes in New South Wales as soon as possible. If so, how much and when. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
1 ) Who is responsible for decisions relating to the use and administration of the Canberra School of Music. 
Which departments are the employers of (a) teaching staff, and (b) non-teaching staff at the Canberra School of Music. 
Have any staff ceilings been imposed on the School of Music. 
Is it a fact that insufficient staff has prevented the School of Music facilities from being available for hire by outside groups. 
Who are the current members of the Council of the School of Music. 
Who appoints the Council. 
What are the powers of the Council of the School of Music and in which ordinance are they defined. 
Since its opening how many times has the auditorium of the School of Music been used by (a) the School, and (b) outside groups. 
Who establishes the fees and conditions for hire of the facilities of the School of Music by outside groups. 
1 0 ) To whom are hiring fees for the School facilities paid. 
What was the total capital cost for the building of the School of Music. 
What is the current annual recurrent allocation for the School of Music. 
How many full-time degree or diploma students are currently enrolled in the School of Music. 
How many part time students are enrolled in the School of Music. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
How many young people in relation to the Community Youth Support scheme have been employed for up to six dollars per week as of (a) 31 December 1976; (b) 31 January 1977; (c) 28 February 1977; and (d) 31 March 1977. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
In view of the announced intention of all State governments to introduce legislative measures to stop the production, distribution and sale of pornographic material involving children, will the Minister initiate the drafting of an ordinance to outlaw child pornography in the Australian Capital Territory. 
-I present the following petition from 1 87 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
We, the undersigned, express our concern at reported plans to alter or delete certain provisions of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act, 1973. These provisions embody many of the principles of International Labour Organisation conventions on maternal and child protection, notably numbers 3, 102, and 103, conventions which Australia has, regrettably, not ratified. They represent, thus, enlightened and considered thought on the importance of the early weeks and months in the parentchid relationship, with particular reference to the role of the father and the importance of natural feeding as long as possible. The beneficial effects, both physical and psychological, to mother and infant of natural feeding, have been convincingly established, and the present provisions for paternity leave recognise the positive good a father's assistance and participation at this stage in his child 's development can do. 
We are also concerned for the health of any mother whose confinement takes place six weeks or less before her return to work after twelve weeks of maternity leave; such a mother is, we consider, medically unfit to rejoin the work force, and should therefore be considered eligible for such sick leave as she has accumulated. 
At the same time, the right of the mother to rejoin the work force after such reasonable time as she thinks the health and welfare of her child and herself require, and the wish of the supporting parent who is ready to work rather than receive social security benefits, must be safeguarded. Your petitioners ask that the Senate take action to preserve the rights of parents and children. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Why, after approving a grant of $24,400 to the Women's Trade Union Commission for the co-ordination of a child care project for working people, has she refused funds for the resulting Eden Park industrial estate child care project? Does her refusal to fund that project indicate a change in the criteria for funding community based child care projects? If so, why was the Women's Trade Union Commission not informed of those changes? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) When will the Legal Aid Ordinances be submitted to the Legislative Assemblies of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
) When will the ordinances in their present, or amended form, commence. 
When will the commissions established by the ordinances commence to provide legal aid in accordance with their provisions. 
What are the estimated expenditures of the commissions during the first year of operation (a) upon wages and salaries (including superannuation); (b) upon rental, lighting and other utilities; (c) upon matters assigned to the private legal profession; (d) upon matters taken over from (i) the Legal Assistance Committee, (ii) the Australian Legal Aid Office, and (iii) members of committees; and (e) allowances. 
What will be the effect on funding responsibilities of the Legislative Assemblies, with particular reference to the contribution of Commonwealth assistance. 
When will the proposed Commonwealth Commission commence operations. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
1 ) How many students are enrolled at Dickson College in the Australian Capital Territory. 
How many science courses are being pursued by those students. 
How many students are being deprived of practical laboratory classes in science courses. 
Are those students being disadvantaged in their final school assessment because they are being deprived of laboratory classes. 
5 ) What action is the Minister prepared to take to provide adequate ancillary staff for Dickson College so that all accredited courses can proceed. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
1 ) Does the Australian Legal Aid Office have sufficient regional offices, funds and staff to provide adequate legal aid in the Federal area; if so, what is the basis for such a conclusion. 
What particular expertise does the private legal profession have in relation to the development of policies for the provision of legal aid (as distinct from providing legal services for payment) that entitles it to dominate or control the proposed Legal Aid Commissions in the States and Territories. 
In view of the Commonwealth's undoubted responsibilities in the Federal area, in particular, in family law matters, has the Attorney-General considered whether an appropriate scheme of legal aid might comprise joint Commonwealth and State Commissions in each State and a Commonwealth advisory and co-ordinating Commission; if not, why not; or if so, has he rejected such a scheme, and why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Were 1261 caravans brought to Darwin to provide temporary homes after Cyclone Tracy. 
If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the affirmative, is it now the case that those caravans, no longer required, are being offered for sale by the Department of the Northern Territory in lots of 50. 
Will the Minister consider purchasing the caravans and using them to provide shelter on Aboriginal settlements in the Northern Territory where housing problems are acute, e.g., Papunya and Yuendumu. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 31 May 1977: 
1 ) Did the Australian Federation of University Women, A.C.T., resolve 'that this Association protest at the brevity of time allowed for making submissions to the various Governmental Inquiries'. 
Is it desirable to achieve maximum public input and participation through submissions to Governmental inquiries; if so, will the Minister consider recommending that there be a generous increase in the time allowed for individuals, and for groups of interested persons, to present submissions to various Governmental inquiries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 1 June 1 977: 
Does the Government intend to abolish paternity leave and severely curtail maternity leave; if so, (a) on what evidence of abuse did the Government base these decisions; (b) what consultations did the Government have with relevant unions relating to these decisions, and (c) will the changes be made by Parliamentary legislation or merely by Executive action. 
Will a full 52 weeks maternity leave, including 12 weeks paid leave, be available to mothers who qualify under the new provisions. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Health agree that despite the Government's declaration of support for women's refuges its withdrawal from direct funding, the reduction of 25 per cent in Commonwealth contributions to capital costs and the reduction of 1 5 per cent for operating costs mean that there is now a disincentive for the States to fund existing refuges and no hope of the funding of new refuges? Does the Government have any other plans for assisting refuges that do not attract assistance under the Budget provisions just announced? 
The Senate is debating a piece of legislation entitled: 'A Bill for an Act to make provision with respect to certain matters concerning Commonwealth employees'. The Opposition opposes this legislation and I rise to support the amendment moved by  Senator Button  with respect to it. The legislation has been brought on for debate without notice. A very short time has been allowed for debate and so far Government speakers in the debate have devoted very little attention to the real purpose of the legislation. It has no proper parliamentary purpose. It has a purely political purpose. It is not justified in any way. It represents a classic response of reactionary governments to a situation of high unemployment. Instead of proceeding to take some measures to alleviate the unemployment that we face, this Government has dreamt up this legislation in order to attempt to manipulate the high rate of unemployment in such a way as to get workers to accept a reduction in conditions and wages. This is not legislation which will facilitate the settling of industrial disputes. It is not legislation which will facilitate the settlement of anything. It is legislation designed to provoke confrontation with the workers of this country. 
The specific object of the legislation, as the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  outlined in his second reading speech, is to permit a Minister- any Minister of the Governmentto initiate a wholesale stand-down of Commonwealth Government employees for any purpose whatsoever. The terms and provisions of the legislation before us completely circumvent the Conciliation and Arbitration Act provisions and the Public Service Act provisions. These two instruments to which I have referred- the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the Public Service Act- are, of course, the proper and adequate instruments for pursuing industrial matters for the employees covered by the legislation before us. But this new legislation completely circumvents and overrides them in every way. 
It would seem from comments made by Government speakers in the debate to this point that the Government is persisting with the myth that the legislation is aimed at the militant and, indeed, communist leadership of unions. We have been told- the previous  speaker  in the debate also told us this-that the legislation is not concerned with the rank and file of unions; it is concerned to protect rank and file unionists from the manipulation of communist and militant leadership. I would like to remind honourable senators and members of the public who may be listening to this debate just which employees are covered by this legislation and which unions will be affected. They are Commonwealth Public Service unions and there is no communist leadership or, indeed, any militant or radical leadership in the unions whose members will be affected by this legislation. I am particularly concerned with the legislation before us because as a senator from the Australian Capital Territory I am aware that over 60 per cent of wage earners in my electorate are covered by this legislation. Of the total Australian work force, in excess of 388 000 wage earners will be affected by this legislation. That is nearly 9 per cent of the Australian work force. These people do not include only the bureaucrats who are so often the subject of criticism and propaganda by Government supporters. They include all sorts of people who work for the Commonwealth Government in any capacity. They include school teachers in the teaching services in both Territories. They include doctors, laywers, technicians, tea ladies, cleaners and hospital workers. 
This legislation is extremely wide-ranging and I am very anxious that people listening to this debate be aware that we are not talking about legislation that is aimed at a minority. We are talking about legislation that is aimed at a sizeable proportion of the Australian work force- the majority of the work force in my electorate in the Australian Capital Territory. I am staggered by the hyprocrisy of the Government in attempting to justify this legislation by expressing concern that services to the public should be maintained. We have just heard  Senator Martin,  speak very passionately about the rights of people who pay for postal services to have their postal services maintained. I share her concern that services to the public be maintained. There have been serious reductions in services to the public from public servants in the last year or 1 8 months. 
If  Senator Tehan  would care to listen, the cause of those reductions in public services has not been industrial disputes; it has been the imposition of staff ceilings. Public servants are working overtime under unacceptable conditions or rush and stress in order to try to maintain services to the public. They are unable to do so because of the deliberately created unemployment in the Public Service area and the deliberately created staff shortages that have been created directly by the present Government, which now has the temerity to put forward legislation in the name of protecting the public with respect to the services to which they are entitled. 
In the Budget announcement that was inflicted upon us this week we heard that 3000 more jobs in the Public Service are to be abolished; that 3000 more people will be unemployed; that 3000 fewer public servants will be available to render services to the public. Yet the Government tries to pretend that it is concerned with the level of services provided to the public. If we turn our attention to the dispute at the Redfern Mail Exchange, with which this legislation is specifically designed to deal, we find again that it was the imposition of staff ceilings and the desire of the Government to reduce expenditure in the 
Public Service area- to make savings at the expense of the public, at the expense of the wages and conditions of workers working at the Redfern Mail Exchange- that has led to the dispute. I will not go into this matter in detail because it has already been covered in detail during the course of this debate. The workers at the Redfern Mail Exchange had their wages reduced by the arbitrary manipulation of rosters. Their working conditions were arbitrarily worsened by the fact that the Mail Exchange is 200 workers short and workers simply have to do extra work. If a person is away sick there is no replacement. The worker who works alongside that absent person must do extra work. It is because the Government has created this situation of a shortage of workers and unrealistic working conditions that the dispute has come about. 
I would like to make another point about the imposition of rosters, particularly for the information of Government senators who probably have never worked shift work in their lives. There are many women working at the Redfern Mail Exchange who support children and who have to make arrangements for the care of those children during working hours. Until the present dispute they knew in advance what rosters they would have. They were able to make satisfactory and secure child care arrangements. Under the present situation, when they do not know from week to week what roster they will be working under, it has proved absolutely impossible for some of them to make appropriate child care arrangements. That is just a small matter that may not be of great interest to Government supporters. It is of great interest to members of the Opposition and I hope it will demonstrate to those who are listening to this debate that there is more to this dispute than we have heard today from Government supporters or, for that matter, from the media. Another point which has to be made with respect to the public getting the service to which they are entitled is that, despite cuts in the Public Service caused by the staff ceilings imposed in the Australian Capital Territory and throughout Australia wherever people work for the Commonwealth Government, to my knowledge no Minister has suffered any decline in the services rendered to him or her by Commonwealth public servants. Only the public has had to suffer through the reduction of workers available in the Public Service. 
The Opposition has many serious reasons for its total opposition to this legislation. One of the main reasons, and this has been adequately covered by  Senator Button  in leading for the Opposition, relates to the definitions clauses, which override all other laws and awards. I draw the attention of the Senate to clause 11(1), which encompasses all actions, right or wrong, justified or unjustified, that a worker may take during his or her working day. All actions are encompassed by this legislation, regardless of any awards or settlements which have been reached to date. The Government as an employer is given powers which no private employer has. Any private employer seeking to take the kind of stand-down action provided for in this legislation would have to go to conciliation and arbitration to seek the right to take such action. But under this legislation a Minister, without appealing to any established form of settlement for industrial disputation, can simply stand down workers for virtually any action they may have taken which the Minister decides is not in the interests of his Government. 
Given the broad sweeping nature of this legislation, I think it makes a mockery of the so-called liberal concern for individual rights we hear so often from the other side. Where is the protection of the rights of the individual worker in this legislation? There is none.  Senator Martin  raised the matter of the individual rights of rank and file workers being manipulated by union leadership, but I point out to the Senate that in the case of the Redfern Mail Exchange dispute it was the rank and file workers who voted by secret ballot to continue the industrial action against the advice of their leadership, against the advice of their executive. If honourable senators cast their minds back to the famous air traffic controllers' dispute, they will recall that the same thing happened then. It was not a question of the rank and file workers being manipulated, it was a question of the rank and file workers expressing their views through secret ballot in a democratic process. 
I have been quite amazed to hear the comments made by the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  in another place with respect to possible appeal provisions in this legislation. On the radio program  AM  this morning the honourable member for Canberra explained that he had dropped his idea of voting against the legislation because he had been informed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and other senior members of the Government that in fact appeal provisions for the individual existed under common law and in the Ombudsman Act. I think  Senator Button  has dismissed the argument that there would be some appeal under common law with respect to actions taken under this legislation. There would be no such appeal. To take common law action in respect of provisions in this legislation would not be feasible and would be quite unworkable. There is no way in which the common law could protect people in any immediate sense from actions that might come about as a result of this legislation. I should like to draw to the attention of the Senate the provisions in the Ombudsman Act 1976, which was introduced into the Parliament by this Government. Section 5 (2) of the Act states: 
The Ombudsman is not authorised to investigate- 
a ) action taken by a Minister: 
action taken by any body or person with respect to persons employed in the Australian Public Service, the Public Service of the Northern Territory or the service of a prescribed authority, being action taken in relation to that employment, including action taken with respect to the promotion, termination of appointment or discipline of a person so employed or the payment of remuneration to such a person; 
I am amazed at the hypocrisy of the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  and, by his admission, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the other unnamed senior members of the Government who claim to believe that the ombudsman legislation would provide appeals machinery under this provision, when half of the people I mentioned are lawyers. The honourable member for Canberra is a lawyer. Surely he has read the ombudsman legislation, which provides that any action by a Minister is specifically excluded from investigation by the Ombudsman, as is any action concerning the terms and conditions of employment of public servants. 
As my colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland has pointed out, the honourable member for Canberra has deceived the people. But he will not deceive them for very long, because the people of Canberra can read. This legislation clearly is a fraud. It clearly is a red herring. Proper and effective power to penalise and discipline workers acting illegally exists already. Section 66 of the Public Service Act already prohibits strike action. The Industrial Relations Bureau, established earlier this year, already provides new opportunities for the Government to pursue action against unionists acting illegally. The Trade Practices Amendment Bill, which was steamrollered through the Parliament during the last session- in a way similar to the way in which this legislation is being forced through in an abbreviated time- also provided new and wide-reaching powers for governments or corporations to act against people who take industrial action. 
There is no need for this legislation. It is simply a way of stirring up prejudice within the community against unionists and public servants. This has been a continual tactic of the present Government. Obviously the Government considers the tactic to be quite successful. We are having it foisted on us again now, at a time when we should be giving consideration to the effects on the Australian people of the Budget that has just been brought down. The final hypocrisy of the Government in respect of this legislation is illustrated in the last statement in the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack).  He stated: 
Finally, let me emphasise that it would be the Government's hope that it will not be necessary to use this legislation and it is the Government's intention that this Bill will be passed by the Parliament but will not be proclaimed to operate unless circumstances so dictate. 
If the Government was serious about this legislationif it thought it really was essential legislationwhy would it be pussy-footing around on whether the legislation will be proclaimed? All this legislation will do will be to create yet another stick to be wielded against workers who might be inclined, even in the present situation of unemployment, to try to preserve the wages and conditions that they have fought so hard to achieve. We entirely reject this legislation. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether it is true, as stated by the honourable member for Canberra,  Mr Haslem,  on the radio program  AM  last Friday, that the Prime Minister told  Mr Haslem  that dismissed Australian Government employees would have the right to appeal to the Ombudsman under the provisions of the Commonwealth Ombudsman Act. If so, did the Prime Minister intend to mislead  Mr Haslem  and the public or was the Prime Minister ignorant of the terms of the Ombudsman Act which specifically preclude any appeal against ministerial decisions? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs have attended courses at the Central Intelligence Agency Headquarters at Langley, Virginia, United States of America, in the past 10 years? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by reminding her of three Press statements she issued on 14 July, 20 July and 29 July in which she denied rumours that a large amount of child care money was being withheld despite the many community based child care projects in urgent need of funds. I ask the Minister why, in view of her repeated statements that all of the $73m allocated for children's services in the last financial year was totally committed, she has described the $73m allocated in this Budget as an increase of $6.2m over last year's expenditure. If it is in fact an increase, is it not the case that the $6m shortfall in last year's expenditure was returned to the Treasury unspent? 
My question is directed to  Senator Guilfoyle  both in her capacity as Minister for Social Security and as Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs because the matter falls within the responsibility of both portfolios. Can the Minister inform the Senate of any measures that the two departments have taken to facilitate the settlement of and to ease the hardships of those Lebanese migrants who came to Australia to escape the civil war in the Lebanon and who are still in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
What steps has the Attorney-General taken to implement his commitment of last November that a Commonwealth Human rights Commission would be set up by July of this year. 
What effect will the setting up of a Human Rights Commission have on the operation of the Racial Discrimination Act. 
What guarantees can the Attorney-General give that the functions performed by the Community Relations Office, especially the education function, will be continued. 
Will the Government introduce legislation similar to the Racial Discrimination Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sex, marital status and sexual preference; if so, will provisions against discrimination in employment be included in the legislation. 
What intentions does the Attorney-General have regarding the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which has been signed but not ratified by Australia. 
What will be the size, resources and functions of the Human Rights Commission, if it is established. 
Will the present Commissioner for Community Relations become a member of the Human Rights Commission if it is established. 
8 ) Will the Human Rights Commission, if established be empowered to override discriminatory provisions under existing State laws. 
9 ) Will anti-discrimination legislation as a single act, applying to the Territories and all areas of Commonwealth responsibility, be introduced. 
10) What steps, if any has the Attorney-General taken to achieve Commonwealth-State co-operation for a uniform approach to legislation to proscribe discrimination on the basis of sex. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
How many officers of the Department of Defence have attended courses at the Central Intelligence Agency's headquarters at Langley, Virginia, United States of America, in the past ten years. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General and ask him to confirm his assurances to  Senator Knight  and the honourable member for Canberra, reported in today's  Canberra Times,  that public servants can appeal against dismissal or stand down under the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act under the terms of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act. I ask the Minister to explain those assurances in terms of his second reading speech on the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Bill, in which he said: 
Judicial review . . . will not be concerned at all with the merits of the decision . . . under review. The only question for the Court will be whether the action is lawful, in the sense that it is within the power conferred on the relevant Minister or official or body, that prescribed procedures have been followed and that general rules of law, such as conformity to the principles of natural justice, have been observed. The Court will not be able to substitute its own decision for that of the person or body whose action is challenged in the Court. 
I ask the Minister how he explains his assurances to his two colleagues in the light of his own interpretation of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act, which specifically precludes any possibility of public servants using it to appeal against ministerial decisions made against them. 
I present the following petition from 58 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned electors of the Newcastle and Hunter Region respectfully asks the Senate to take action to ensure that: 
There be continuing and expanding funding for the Hunter Region Working Women' s Group so that it can continue to provide child care, legal aid, community health, welfare and educational services to the women of the Hunter Region. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1977: 
Will the Minister consider recommending to- 
medical specialists that the charge for a first visit under Item 88 not be repeated for each routine, or yearly, visit as in the case of eye specialists and others, and 
altering existing legislation to allow referral to be sufficient for a course of treatment by a specialist, for how ever long that course may take, instead of having the patient obtain referrals from a General Practitioner at the present necessary intervals. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it not a fact, as reported in recent news reports, that the Commonwealth Employment Service now has the sole responsibility for determining eligibility for receipt of unemployment benefits? If the reports are correct and it is the case that the Department of Social Security can no longer make its ownjudgments regarding eligibility, can the Minister inform the Senate under what criteria unemployed persons may now appeal to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal against decisions taken by the Commonwealth Employment Service with respect to unemployment benefit? 
The Senate is debating a Bill which authorises the giving of guarantees on behalf of the Commonwealth in respect of loans to nongovernment schools in the States. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill and does not oppose the measures in the Bill although the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  will be moving an amendment to one of the clauses later on. However, the Opposition does see fit to regard the debate on this Bill as an opportunity to express our very sincere concern about the destructive effect of Government policy on all sectors of education. 

 Senator Martin chose to characterise the Opposition's concern as two things- as a trivial and petty concern with technicalities of guidelines, and as a prejudiced and hostile onslaught on the private sector of education. It is understandable that  Senator Martin  and other supporters of the Government, including perhaps the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  himself should wish to characterise our concern with what is happening in education in these demeaning and distorted terms. However, the characterisation by  Senator Martin  simply will not bear up. The concern felt about the destructive effect of the Government's most recent policies and actions in respect of education funding in all sectors is snared by all sectors of the community throughout Australia. It is not simply a preoccupation of members of the Opposition. It is not simply a preoccupation of those people who organise in support of the government school sector. It is shared by all sectors of education. It is not the case that we in the Opposition are hostile or opposed in any way to Government support of the non-government sector. That matter was resolved clearly and unambiguously during the period of the Whitlam Government. When  Senator Martin  tells the sad tale of 2 1 or 25 nongovernment boarding schools shutting down in Queensland she attempts to make the point that that is somehow the result of or somehow connected with hostility on the part of Labor governments to non-government schools. It is simply not the case that the Labor Party, in or out of office, has failed to exercise concern for non-government schools particularly those in need of special funding, particularly those with the fewest sources of income. I remind  Senator Martin  and all honourable senators in this chamber, and I would remind all those people who are interested in the education debate, that if it had not been for the greatly increased funding of the non-government sector under the Labor Government's education program many more than the 25 non-government schools referred to by  Senator Martin  would have had to close. It is a well known fact to all of those who are concerned with education in the nongovernment sector that the parochial school system in all States was on the verge of collapse. It was on the verge of collapse because it had no money for buildings. It had no money for resources. It had inadequate money to pay for the lay teachers who now comprise the dominant teaching force. There is no doubt that if the Whitlam Government had not been elected with its pledge to fund education according to needs the parochial school system in most States would have collapsed. 
As evidence of the claim that what we are concerned about now is the entire education sectionthe government school section and the non-government school section- I would point to the fact that the criticisms emanating from the most recent Schools Commission report are not the criticisms of one sector. The Commission, as the Minister for Education would know seeing that he has recently appointed people to that Commission, represents the entire cross-section of those concerned with education in Australia. It represents those in the government school sector, the parents and the teachers. It represents the parents and the teachers from the private school sector. It has representatives from the catholic school system. The Commission has on it representatives of those concerned with special education for the handicapped. It is that body which unanimously has brought down these criticisms of the Government's action in regard to the funding of education that we cite in support of our case that there is indeed universal concern in this country about the detrimental effects of the Government 's education policy. 
I repeat that it is not simply a matter that we on the Opposition side are going to engage in some technical quibble about guidelines. It is not simply that we are distressed to find money reallocated from the non-government schools- we have no opposition to that- but to the two top categories, the two wealthiest categories of schools in the non-government sector. It is not simply that we are concerned only with those issues, although we are concerned with them. It is that we have very wide-ranging concern with what is happening in education. Let us look at what is happening in education under the Fraser Government and under the administration of the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick.  It is a fact that during the period of the Labor Government education averaged a real growth of 39 per cent in each of its three years 
Labor was in office. That is a fact with which there can be no argument. What has happened now is that we have reverted to a no-growth situation and we are concerned about that nogrowth situation because of the implications. We are not simply pursuing a big spending argument that more money means better education. 
We are concerned that no growth means in fact no growth towards equality- no growth on the part of disadvantaged schools in catching up with advantaged schools; no growth in terms of innovations which will bring about better teaching methods and better learning situations for the least advantaged children in the community. That is the basis of our concern. There is no growth to better education; no growth towards more equality. That is why we are concernednot with the amounts of money involved but with the fact that the objectives of the original Karmel Committee which were to bring all schools in Australia, to which all Australian children have access, up to a standard which would give roughly equal educational opportunity to all children in Australia. That is surely a very fundamental and indeed a very modest requirement for a democratic community, for a community and for a political system in which people like to talk in terms of equality of opportunity, of equal chances, of a fair go and all these things which we like to think are characteristic of the political ethos in Australia. If we like to think that those things are the case, then surely to aim at providing roughly equal opportunity in education for all Australian children is not an extravagant or unreasonable objective, but the progress towards that objective which was started so magnificently during the period of the Whitlam Government when Kim Beazley was Minister for Education has now been stopped, and that is the main basis of our concern. 
There are other matters of serious concern. One is the fact that forward planning in education has been destroyed by the Minister's failure to honour his promises- given many times within this chamber and outside- to maintain real growth in education and to maintain a rolling biennium funding system under which during this next financial year there would be a 2 per cent real growth in education. The Minister has not been able to secure adequate funds for the promise that he gave with respect to the rolling biennium. As a result, the rolling biennium concept has been completely discredited. No planning, other than hand-to-mouth annual ad hoc planning, is now available to the education institutions in this country. Again I remind honourable senators that the implications of that in terms of children's education are very serious. Education is not something which can be turned on and off like a tap. It is not even a matter of stopping or starting a building. Education programs take years to develop, to trial, to evaluate, to modify in terms of changing needs, changing demands of employers, of post secondary institutions and so forth. 
It is simply not possible to plan sound education on a yearly basis. It is not possible to train staff on a yearly basis. It is not possible to equip libraries in a rational, balanced way on a yearly basis. All planning in education, if it is to be sound and productive, must be long range planning. The Minister's failure to secure funds to maintain the forward planning that he promised when he spoke about the rolling triennium is disastrous and will mean that there will be no constructive planning for education; therefore the education of many children in Australia will be fragmented and will stop and start. 
The fact that the Minister, whether deliberately or otherwise, has misled teachers, parents and administrators in education with regard to future growth and planning is in itself a source of serious concern to all of us who wanted to see education removed from a party political haggle into a central area of social policy where ongoing adequate resources would be provided. It seems to the Opposition that one of the problems with regard to the Minister's handling of his tasks is that he has two portfolios. He is Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs and he is Minister for Education. It seems to us that there is a direct conflict in those two areas, a conflict which has not been resolved in the guidelines issued to education commissions by the Minister. 
In defence of his failure to secure adequate funding for the rolling triennium, the Minister has said that the States can move in and make up the necessary funds for the government sector of schools. He has argued that the States have more resources and that it is part of their responsibility to move in and fund where the Federal Government is not going to do so. It seems to me that there is a very serious contradiction there. On the one hand we have the Minister for federalism saying: 'We want to hand back to the States all sorts of autonomy and responsibility and decision-making powers. We do not want to be centralists, as the Labor Government was. We do not want to tell the States what to do. They can raise their own revenue and spend it as they wish'. On the one hand we have that sort of argument in favour ofthe States making autonomous decisions. On the other hand, the Minister in his role as Minister for Education has said: 'Yes, there is a decreasing funding for the State with respect to government schools, but the States can assume that responsibility themselves'. In other words, there is a direction by the Federal Minister to the States as to what they should spend their money on. Even the Minister has not claimed that education standards should not be maintained, and if they are not going to be maintained by Federal funding clearly they have to be maintained by State funding. 
The criticisms offered by the Schools Commission of the way in which the whole question of guidelines for funding has been handled are very serious criticisms. I should like to draw the attention of the Senate, in a fair and unbiased way, to some of the major points of significance made in the Schools Commission report as they relate to the subject we are discussing tonight. In paragraph 1.8 of its report the Schools Commission pointed out the full effects of the guidelines imposed on the Commission by the Minister. It stated first of all: 
. the total of $571m for 1978 represented the same amount for 1 978 in real terms as was estimated to be spent in 1977- that is, the 2 per cent real growth in funds previously announced for 1978 would not be available. 
Then there is reference to the revised supplementation arrangements, which of course erode what funds are made available to schools because automatic indexation is no longer being observed. The Commission went on: 
In the case of recurrent funds to non-government schools the Government wishes the Commission to include in its recommendations provision for the additional cost of the announced policy of automatically linking grants to nongovernment schools to per pupil expenditures in government schools; 
The Government also wishes the Commission to make recommendations as a first step towards the implementation of the Government's policy of providing a basic per pupil grant to non-government schools equal to 20 per cent of running costs per pupil in government schools. The Government envisages an amount of $2m being allocated in 1978 to schools in Levels 1 and 2 for this purpose; 
The Government wishes the Commission to increase the capital program for non-government schools by $3m, specifically to assist building programs in newly expanding areas of population;  the Government suggests that the Commission seeks to achieve savings of the order of $4m on the joint programs for Services and Development and for Special Projects; 
The Government asked the Commission to plan on the basis that the real growth in funds for 1979 and 1980 would be one per cent each year. 
The Commission went on to say in paragraph 1.9: 
The Commission views very seriously the implications of such prescriptive guidelines . . . The 1977 situation is different in principle because most of the internal priorities  have already been established by direction making it difficult for the Commission fully to exercise its responsibilities under the Act. 
In paragraph 1 . 1 1 the Commission pointed out: 
A feature of the Commission's work since its inception has been its success in drawing together the diverse interests in government and non-government sectors. Traditional barriers between these sectors have been substantially reduced and individuals and groups within them have been encouraged to work together in the common interests of educating all Australian school children to the best possible standards. The operation of the Commission's joint programs and the development of formal and informal planning relationships between government and non-government schools and systems are significant examples of the evolution of this consensus. This is a major outcome of the Commission's work over the past four years and indeed may be one of the major achievements of the Commonwealth in its role in Australian education. The Commission views with great concern the implications of the guidelines for the maintenance of the situation. 
So we have the unanimous report from the Schools Commission, a body which represents a full cross-section of education in Australia, voicing concerns that we in the Opposition can only endorse and reinforce. Contrary to what was suggested by  Senator Martin,  the Opposition is not interested in opening up sectarian disputes with regard to the funding of education. The whole purpose of the needs-based approach to the funding of education in Australia instituted under the Labor Government was to remove that sectarian division. The Commission has said, as I have just quoted, that that was an objective which was successfully achieved under the funding program of the Schools Commission until it was interfered with in this way, and it is an objective which is now endangered by the way in which the Minister has not only imposed restrictive guidelines that do not permit growth but also has actually directed this very unjust and very divisive redistribution of funds from the government sector to the two wealthiest categories of the private sector. It is that kind of direction to that kind of redistribution that we regard as divisive and as raising again the sectarian issue in the funding of education. The Opposition regrets this most sincerely. We are not seeking to make political capital out of it, but we feel that we must voice our concern that the Minister has behaved in this way and we are reinforced in that view, by the fact that the Commission has unanimously expressed its view. 
However, I think we should remember that it is not the Schools Commission which should be the focus of our concern or the focus of any controversy surrounding the funding of education. After all, the Schools Commission is a statutory body of persons appointed by the Minister- by two Ministers now- to advise nationally on needs in education. The Schools Commission does not have funds available to it from any source other than the Government and it is ultimately, as  Senator Carrick  has pointed out, merely an advisory body to the Government. So any criticisms of and concern we feel about and any controversies arising out of what is happening in education must be properly directed at the Government. It is the policies of the Government which have impeded the Schools Commission in this way. It is the policies of the Government which will mean that there will be a no growth situation and, indeed, a deterioration in some of the more disadvantaged sectors of education. We must not allow the debate about education in Australia to focus on a statutory body when it is the Government's policies and practice which are the central area of concern. 
At this stage of the debate I would like to ask what exactly is the Government's policy with respect to the funding of all sectors of education in Australia. I am aware, as no doubt all honourable senators are aware, of the contents of the official policy of the Liberal and National Country parties in respect of education. I am aware that those policies when read deal a lot with equality of opportunity, assistance to the disadvantaged and so forth. On paper, the policy probably does not look significantly different in some of its emphases from the policies of the Australian Labor Party with respect to education. But whatever the policy of the Liberal and National Country parties may be on paper, it is clear now that that policy is not being implemented by the present Government. There is no serious attempt to move towards equality of opportunity in education. There is no growth in the areas most in need of growth in education. The current redistribution of funding that the Schools Commission has been forced to carry out by the Minister is simply reinforcing existing inequalities in our community and in our education system. There is no planning which would allow the development of new and more constructive approaches to education. There will be no innovations. I remind the Senate that $4m was cut off an area of funding with which innovations are concerned. 
Of course, no innovations do not mean only what some people think, namely, no new hardware or software in the classroom with which the teachers can experiment. No innovations mean that no money is being allocated for thinking and re-looking at the basis of education in order to make education more accessible to more children in our community. It is a well known phenomenon of education that those children who get the most out of traditional methods of education are those children who come from the most advantaged families. It is a well known phenomenon of education that children who are disadvantaged generally in socio-economic terms also find themselves disadvantaged when they go into our school system because the school system until now has been a traditional conservative system which did not take account of the special needs and the special difficulties of children from lower socio-economic groups or, in the case of Australia, children from particular ethnic groups or children from the Aboriginal community. 
Innovation is essential not simply to improve the sort of traditional education which is available and suitable to middle class children in Australia; innovation is absolutely essential if teachers are to achieve some sort of breakthrough in the teaching, for example, of Aboriginal children, in the teaching of non-English speaking migrant children, in the teaching of handicapped children and so on. It is in those areas that the traditional education methods have been a complete failure and it is in those areas that innovation is needed. But $4m from that area of the Schools Commission's funds has been taken away by the Minister. 
I would like to refer to another area of need which has been raised in the debate tonight, the needs of children in isolated areas. Earlier this year the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts brought down a very far reaching report on the needs of children in isolated areas. Most of the children who are severely disadvantaged by living in isolated areas are children who would want these services provided by the government school sector. Children in isolated areas whose parents can afford to send them to boarding schools are children who are not particularly disadvantaged by isolation. There are some financial measures of assistance provided to the parents of those children. The children living in isolated areas who need and want access to government school servicesthat is, basically free services- are the children who are not getting them. If supporters of the Government are seriously concerned about the lack of education facilities for children in isolated areas, I suggest that they should be particularly concerned by the no-growth policy of the present Government. In the area of the education of isolated children, there is clearly and patently a need for an input of a significant amount of resources if those children are to achieve anything like equality of opportunity in education with children living in city areas who have access to good government and good nongovernment schools. 
I would make this point finally: Whilst the Opposition does not oppose the loan assistance arrangements contained in the Bill we are debating tonight, it does oppose in general the approach taken by this Government to education because it is a retrograde step. It is an approach which will merely entrench inequalities, and it is an approach which runs the very dangerous possibility of opening up the sectarian issue of education funding again. We oppose the approach because it stops that very necessary progress towards the development of equality of opportunity for all Austraiian school children. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In a sense the question follows the Dorothy Dix question posed by  Senator Martin  regarding education for migrants and the unsatisfactory answer given by  Senator Carrick.  I refer to an announcement made by the Prime Minister - 
-I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by referring to the fact that women receiving supporting mothers' benefit are allowed to earn only $20 per week if they wish to retain full benefit and that this limitation on permissible earnings is a disincentive for women to get work and rise above the poverty line. I ask the Minister: What is the situation facing a woman on supporting mother's benefit when she approaches the Commonwealth Employment Service to register as unemployed for the purpose of getting assistance to find employment? Does the receipt of supporting mothers' benefit preclude these women from registering as unemployed? 
-The Senate is debating the Budget Papers for 1977-78. 1 rise to support the amendment that has been moved by my Leader,  Senator Wriedt.  The thrust of what  Senator Scott  has just been saying, insofar as there was a discernible thrust, was something to the effect that the Budget would succeed if people kept saying that it was going to succeed. I suggest to the Senate that this rather pathetic plea by  Senator Scott,  who has just resumed his seat, comes a little too late. The Budget, which was announced a few weeks ago, is already a failure. The Budget has been judged to be a failure not only by the informed members of the Opposition but also by virtually every economic writer in Australia. It has been judged to be a failure by business, by the rural sector, by the manufacturing sector and virtually every other sector of industry that one would care to mention. So there is no point to the pathetic plea of  Senator Scott  that we should start saying that the Budget will be a success, that we should start manifesting some neo.Neitzschean triumph of the will complex in order to make it a success. It is a failure. 
I rise tonight not to establish that the Budget is a failure but rather to draw the attention of the 
Senate and of the public to some of the more notable omissions and inadequacies in the Budget that has been brought down in this session of Parliament. In the Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
This Budget sets the nation first; it recognises that there must be a fair sharing of the burdens and responsibilities, and a fair sharing of rewards. 
I suggest that never was a statement so inappropriately phrased, never was a statement so inaccurate and misleading as that statement made by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech. This Budget sets the nation first', he said. I suggest that it is quite clear that the Budget does not set the nation anywhere very important at all. What the Budget sets first is the Government and the Government's supporters own preoccupations, own prejudices with regard to public expenditure and private enterprise. What the Budget sets first clearly is the need to reduce the deficit- the familiar pre-occupation which has dominated all the Government's thinking since it took power in November 1975. The Treasurer also claimed that he recognises, that the Government recognises or somebody recognises that there must be a fair sharing of the burdens and responsibilities and a fair sharing of the rewards. Well, let us look at what sort of sharing there is of the burden that has been brought on to this nation by this Budget. 
The main burden, the worst burden, the scandalous burden under which the country is suffering is the burden of unemployment, but is it evenly shared throughout the community? Quite clearly it is not. If honourable senators opposite look at the overall statistics on unemployment they will find a figure approaching something like 7 per cent. If they look at the areas where unemployment is concentrated they will find a very uneven distribution of unemployment. For example, if they look at rural unemployment they will find the figure is very much higher than 7 per cent. They will find the figure approaches something like 15 per cent. If they break down that figure and look at rural youth unemployment they will find the figure is something like 1 8 per cent. If they look at the percentage of rural girls unemployed they will find it is something over 20 per cent, and so it goes on. In the cities they will find that in respect of migrant girls the unemployment is something like 16 per cent or 17 per cent. On the other hand, if we could get figures on unemployment amongst, say, doctors, lawyers, company directors or other groups which may be better represented by the Government than by the Opposition, we could find virtually no unemployment. It is absolutely ludicrous to claim that the burdens of the Budget are shared equally. 
Similarly it is absurd to claim that the rewards, such as they are, are shared throughout the community. Clearly, there are rewards in the Budget for companies. There are rewards like the capital investment tax and the lifting of the coal levy which is a wonderful reward to companies like the Utah Development Company. But where are the rewards for the small businessmen? Where are the rewards for the person who is selfemployed on a small scale? Where are the rewards for the low skilled or unskilled workers who have worked so long in areas like manufacturing which is now suffering so badly? There are no rewards for them; there are only burdens. 
I found the way in which the Budget Speech was set out to be quite ironical. After the Treasurer claimed to have solved virtually all the problems of Australia by reducing the deficit, he then set out what was called a record of achievement. I would like to draw the attention of the Senate to some of the more notable aspects of the record of this Government whilst in office. The first I have mentioned already; that is unemployment. I find it absolutely scandalous that supporters of the Government can rise in the Senate chamber and talk with pride and optimism about what a wonderful job the Government has done at a time when we have the worst unemployment we have had in this country since the Depression. Of course, in some areas, as I have pointed out already, the unemployment is as great as it was in some areas during the Depression. Despite this appalling fact and this absolutely convincing manifestation of the economic incompetence of this Government, we still find Government supporters rising to their feet and claiming proudly that there has been a significant achievement in the area of economic management in this country. 
The position is bad not only in respect to unemployment. If we look at the areas of economic activity which until recently had contributed significantly to Australia's prosperity, we find that they too have suffered drastically and fared very badly during the period of this Government and will, of course, suffer worse as a result of the Budget. For example, I refer to manufacturing industry. The manufacturing industry sector is a sector with which one would expect a free enterprise government to be concerned. One would expect a government which claimed to represent business and the commercial sector to have some ideas about this area. But instead, we find manufacturing industry in a state of complete collapse. Over 100,000 jobs in manufacturing industries have been lost in the last 12 months alone. Of course, those jobs have gone elsewhere. They have gone out of Australia. There has been no constructive strategy whereby manufacturing in Australia has been made more viable, where jobs have been retained or where, to put it in the terms the Government is most interested in, profits have been maintained. 
Similarly, there has been a collapse of the rural sector. I was interested to hear  Senator Scott  speak with great optimism about the establishment of the Rural Bank. It would appear that that particular initiative has come very late in the day for many sectors of rural industries. It would seem that all around the world markets for our rural products are closing up. The Government is absolutely powerless to do anything about this. Similarly, its attempts to go out, find and create new markets for the products of the rural sector have failed completely. The emergence of groups such as the Cattlemen's Union with its extremely vociferous criticism of the rural strategies of the Government is evidence in itself of the total failure of the Government to do anything at all to prevent or to slow down the collapse of the rural sector. 
There is also the very well documented and current failure of the Australian Government to protect the value of the Australian dollar. It is quite amazing that a government based on the philosophy of the free enterprise system has been so inept at managing industry in any sector throughout Australia. The Government has failed completely and there is nothing in the Budget to indicate any positive strategies for restructuring the Australian economy or any positive strategies for creating viable national activities. Certainly, some strategies have succeeded in some ways. It has always been an avowed objective of the Fraser Government to increase profits. Indeed, profits have been increased in some areas. The Treasurer states in the Budget Speech that company profits have increased by 23.5 per cent. I guess that he should know. But despite the fact that company profits have been increasedsome companies have recorded a very marked increase in their profit levels- there has been no improvement in the employment situation. 
We were told by Government spokesmen when the Government was first elected that it was necessary to improve profits so that unemployment would decrease. We were told that with the increase in profits would come more jobs, more opportunities and so on. But what has happened? Company profits have soared- up by 23.5 per cent overall according to the Treasurerand unemployment has become worse. So that particular strategy has been a complete failure for the nation, although I suppose that it was a success for the shareholders and directors of those companies whose profits have increased. 
Another strategy of the Government in which it has succeeded in the short term is the reduction of wages. The Treasurer stated, again in his Budget Speech, that wage restraint is crucial. I ask: Crucial to what? Perhaps it is crucial to increases in profits. Wage restraint has been achieved in Australia. There has been an erosion of wage indexation. There has been a drop in real wages and in the real consumption power of wages. Yet what has happened? Productivity has not increased. How can it? The logic of the Government escapes me when it claims that by reducing real wages, that by reducing the amount of money that the wage earner has to spend, somehow the economy will improve, somehow consumption will increase and that demand will lead to increased productivity. 
Again, whilst the Government has succeeded in restraining wages, it has done nothing about improving productivity. So, it is clear to see that the preoccupation of the Government with the reduction of the deficit is still pre-eminent. It is really the only overall strategy that the Government has developed. I suppose in a sense it has reduced the deficit, although there seems to be varying interpretations about exactly what the deficit stands at today. It has reduced the deficit on paper at least. It has not reduced unemployment. It has not increased productivity. In fact, the Budget is not a plan for the better economic management of the country from anyone's point of view. It is a Budget - 
It is not a plan at all, as my colleague,  Senator McAuliffe,  says. The Budget is merely a document reflecting the biases and prejudices of this Government and its supporters rather than any real concern for what is happening in Australia today. There are so many omissions, failures, inadequacies and misleading statements in the Budget that I certainly do not have time in this brief intervention in the Budget debate to go through them all. But I would draw the attention of the Senate to some of them in order to illustrate just what sort of a Budget with which we are faced. I will take the example of legal aid. The Treasurer announced a $ 19.6m allocation for legal aid and claimed that that would maintain legal aid services at their present levels. Today in the  Canberra Times  there is a report that already, just a few weeks after the Budget has been brought down, legal aid offices are running out of money. I quote briefly from the report in the  Canberra Times: 
Legal-aid bodies throughout Australia have been told to strictly apply means-test guidelines until monthly expenditure fits into budget and overspending for the first two months of this financial year is picked up. 
In each of August and September, the bodies committed about 10 per cent more than the Sim a month allocated to legal aid in the August Budget. 
The report goes on to quote what the director of the Australian Legal Aid Office,  Mr J.  P. Harkins, had to say. He said: 
. this overspending would have to be met from slacker' months, like December and January when the call on resources might be expected to be lower. 
Already, not two months after the Budget has been brought down, the deception in the claim of the Treasurer that legal aid services would be maintained is revealed. Members of the Opposition said at the time of the debate on the  setting  up of the Australian Legal Aid Commission that the success of any legal aid program in Australia would depend on a government's willingness to put sufficient financial resources into it. Clearly this Government has not been prepared to do that. Already the amount of money allocated to legal aid is running out. Now there is a direction to impose the guidelines strictly. I remind those honourable senators who are not familiar with the guidelines for legal aid that they are very strigent guidelines indeed. To qualify for legal aid under the guidelines a person may have only $40 a week left after expenditure on rent and a few other essential items. Under the guidelines only people living in real poverty have access to legal aid. What about all the people who are just above that $40 a week limit? They have no possible chance of engaging private legal assistance if they need it, and they will now miss out on legal aid altogether. We heard quite a few remarks from the previous  speaker  in this debate,  Senator Scott,  about the importance of freedom, equality of opportunity and things of that kind. I suggest to the Senate that one of the basic equalities that characterises a truly democratic system is equality of access to the law and equality under the law. The failure of the Fraser Government to provide adequate funds for legal aid makes a mockery of the claim of equality before the law and equality under the law in the present circumstances. 
Similarly, in the area of education funding there has been an abrogation of federal responsibility at every level. The burden for the major funding of education- that is with respect to the funding of school education, pre-school education and child care education- has been put back on the States. With regard to tertiary education, of course, there has been virtually a nogrowth situation. Not only that, but the promises of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  with regard to a rolling triennium and the 2 per cent real growth in this sector have been broken. I do not need to refer again to the criticisms from the various commissions and various vicechancellors as evidence that that commitment has been broken, that planning has been destroyed and that, of course, access to higher education and, indeed, access to quality primary and secondary education will be significantly reduced as a result of the Budget. 
If we look at other areas of special need we find that in every case the Government is abrogating its responsibility as a national government, as a federal government. I refer to the example of the funding of women's refuges. This matter has been raised by Opposition senators on many occasions in this chamber but unfortunately we have raised it to no avail. Women's refuges throughout Australia are still without the commitment of a federal properly funded program for their support. What has happened is that there has been a 25 per cent drop in the Commonwealth's contribution to capital costs of existing funded refuges and a 1 5 per cent drop in the Commonwealth's contribution to operating costs. There is no guarantee of funding. Funding for refuges are just indicated by the Government to be a part of the funding to States under the community health program. The Government states that it considers the funding of refuges to be a matter of the highest importance but it has stopped short of direct funding and has left it to the people who run the refuges to turn around and start to negotiate their future with State governments. This is a particularly callous and indefensible action on the part of the Government since the Government is very well aware of the difficulties involved in running refuges. The Government is very well aware of how much work the co-ordinators and convenors of refuges have already done in order to establish their financial needs. But now they are told to rephrase their case, to do all that work again to see whether they can get something out of the State governments. This Government hopes that they will get something out of the State governments. The failure of the Government to set up a national refuge program is a very serious failure indeed. 
When we look at the area of children's services we find that this year's allocation of $73.3m is the same amount as last year but, of course, in real terms it is a reduction. The allocation for this financial year has been described as an increase of $6.2m over last year's actual expenditure of $6.7 lm. But, of course, that $6.2m is already committed to projects which were undertaken last year and cannot be interpreted as a real increase in any way. The limitations on funds for capital grants in the area of children's services means that there will virtually be no new community based child care projects. So, despite the huge areas of need, there will be no money to meet any new projects. I draw the Senate 's attention to the extent of need in the area of child care. I refer to a publication of the Australian Bureau of Statistics of 8 November 1977 which gives these figures:  222,000 children under 12 years of age not attending school were the responsibility of persons who worked away from home. 
That is more than a quarter of a million Australian children need some form of child care services. The publication continues: 
Of these 42 per cent were looked after at home by the responsible persons' spouse or some other person; 34 per cent were being cared for in other persons' homes; and 16 per cent attended kindergartens, pre-schools, child care centres, etc. 
Those figures indicate clearly that there is a very vast need for children's services- not only for the children of working parents but also for children in many circumstances- which is not being met and which will not be met from the allocation in this Budget. If we look at the situation of the supporting mothers benefit- I use that term advisedly because the Government refused to extend the benefit to supporting fathers despite the overwhelming evidence of the difficult circumstances in which many single fathers find themselves- we find that there has been no increase in the allowance per child for the supporting mother. The allowance per child is still $7.50 per week, which is what is was in 1975. Similarly, the $6 per week mother's allowance has remained unchanged since 1973. The family allowance of which the Government purports to be so proud has not been indexed at all. There has been no increase in the family allowancethat is the allowance which was substituted for the previous child endowment payments. 
In the area of job training very little has been included in the Budget. The allocation for the Trade Union Training Authority has suffered a cut. The sum of $2,145,000 was spent on the Authority in 1976-77 and only $1,733,000 has been allocated for it in 1977-78. This, of course, is an important new area for providing assistance to workers and to people involved in the trade union movement. Yet its allocation has now suffered a severe cut. Similarly, the allocation for the apprenticeship training scheme has been reduced by $1.6m. There has been only a very modest increase in the allocation for the National Employment and Training scheme. Certainly the figure allocated is nowhere near adequate to provide opportunities for training and retraining people who have been sacked, people who have become unemployed because of the recession or people who leave school without adequate vocational skills. 
At this point of the debate I should like to turn to the electorate that I represent, the Australian Capital Territory. I think that if we look at what has happened in the Australian Capital Territory since the election of the Fraser Government we can see very clearly how inept the Government is at economic management, how prejudiced it is when it encounters the public sector and how obtruse the Government remains about the real relationship between the public and the private sectors. The Australian Capital Territory has almost turned into a ghost town as a result of the actions of the Government. 
-No. I think that  Senator Withers  is haunting it, perhaps with his leader and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  The unemployment figures are a disgrace. Nearly 4,000 people are registered as being unemployed. 
-Senator McAuliffe draws my attention to the number of homes that are on the market for sale. As honourable senators will recall, a couple of years ago it was almost impossible to buy or to rent a house in the Australian Capital Territory because of the expansion and the growth of the Territory and the inflow of persons into it. The situation now is totally the reverse. People are leaving the Australian Capital Territory as fast as they can. People who have work opportunities elsewhere are leaving and hundreds of homes are now lying empty. 
I mention the registered unemployed figures. We know that those figures represent a mere fraction of the true situation. For example there is extensive unemployment amongst married women who are not registered as unemployed but who are anxious to seek jobs. I refer to an article in the  Age  of 1 5 August 1977 by Lyndsay Connors. She describes a situation where 1,000 women applied for 80 jobs recently advertised by the Public Service Board. The jobs were ancillary staff positions in schools. I think the fact that 1,000 women turned up to seek 80 jobs demonstrates something of the extent of unemployment amongst married women in the Australian Capital Territory. This unemployment is not reflected in the Commonwealth Employment Service statistics. 
One of the causes of unemployment has been the Government's relentless pursuit to reduce the size of the Public Service. The Government still seems to be of the opinion that by arbitrarily reducing the number of persons in Commonwealth employment it is doing something for the economy. The number of public servants employed has fallen by 12,500 in the last 12 months. Not all of this reduction has been in Canberra but a large proportion of it is concentrated here. We were informed in the Budget Speech that another 3,000 jobs in the Public Service are to go. There is no economic sense in this policy. There is no indication at all that there has been any economic benefit from this ad hoc across the board reduction of jobs. Certainly we can see that an increase in unemployment has paralleled this reduction. 
I think  Senator Missen  has only recently come into the chamber. I made some comments on the deficit earlier. The increase in unemployment and the reduction of employment opportunities in the public sector have had a devastating effect on the private sector. There is no better example of this than what has happened in the building industry. The building industry in the Australian Capital Territory although largely a private enterprise concern was very closely related to government and to government projects. 
If we look at what has happened in the government housing area which was one of the mainstays of the building and construction industry here we find that the situation is disastrous. This year only 200 new residential units will be commenced. This is the lowest number ever in the history of the Territory. I will give figures for three financial years in order to demonstrate what a drastic reduction there has been in the home building sector of the building and construction industry. In 1976-77, 862 units were completed. In 1977-78 only 550 will be completed. In 1978-79 only 200 units will be completed. Honourable senators ought to be able to understand the implications of this situation for other areas of construction. I refer for example to the effect on the intake of apprentices and the effect of the wholesale and retail firms that deal in building materials. The whole situation has collapsed. It is true- the Government may care to argue- that housing requirements have been reduced in the last couple of years. Housing requirements have been reduced. Because of the Government's policies of creating unemployment in the Territory, of destroying the building industry and of reducing the size of the Public Service, people are leaving the Territory if they have any opportunity to do so. School leavers and graduates from tertiary institutions are leaving the Territory if they can find work elsewhere. Indeed there is a reduction in the demand for houses. 
There are other reasons that there is a reduced demand for housing. One, of course, is that the cost of housing has increased. This situation has created a number of anomalies. As honourable senators will be aware, rents on government housing are now higher in the Australian Capital Territory than ever before. In some cases they are higher than commercial rents. This means that families in economic hardship have the choice of either paying very high rents for the rest of their lives on houses they will never own or seeking to buy the houses they live in. With interest rates so high and the mortgage repayment rates required by the Department of the Capital Territory under the Minister's policy so high many families find themselves caught between two stools. They cannot afford to continue to pay rents at high rates for the rest of their lives and they cannot afford to buy the houses. These families, if they have the opportunity, are leaving the Territory. 
As well as the onslaught on the two main employers in the Australian Capital Territory, the building and construction industry and the Public Service, there is a notable absence of provision of essential services for the Australian Capital Territory in the Budget. I would like to give an example of what is not happening for the very large migrant groups in the Territory. The Australian Capital Territory has a very large migrant population. Of the people living in the Territory a total of 46,034 are migrants, that is, persons not born in Australia. Of that 46,000 more than 28,000 are not of British birth, that is, they are not English speaking by birth. One can easily imagine that the extent of demand for migrant services is very great. The unfortunate thing is that no services have been provided. No interpreter translator service is provided in the Territory. The 24 hour a day telephone interpreter service which has been established in other capital cities has not been extended to the Territory. Despite the fact that I and other persons in the community who are concerned about this matter have made repeated representations to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  there is no allocation in the Budget to provide any special services for migrants. 
Another area of growing concern in the Australian Capital Territory is drug addiction, particularly amongst the young. I believe that the increase in drug addiction is causally related to the very high unemployment rate amongst the young. There is no properly funded or organised drug treatment or rehabilitation centre in the Territory. Voluntary organisations do various things within the bounds of their very limited resources, but there is no proper rehabilitation service. Again I made representations on this matter to the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  before the Budget, but there appears to have been no allocation for an essential service of this kind. The overall situation in the Australian Capital Territory is one of decay. Whereas a couple of years ago the national capital was a thriving, growing and expanding centre providing more and more services to the rest of the nation, a city with many job opportunities for children growing up here, a city with opportunities for people in business and for the whole range of private enterprise, it is now a place with opportunities for virtually no one. That drastic change of events has come about as a result of the deliberate policies of the Fraser Government. 
I would like to draw my remarks to a conclusion now and say that the Budget brought down by the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  some weeks ago is already a failure. It is a failure for the nation as a whole. It does nothing to tackle the drastic problems of unemployment. It provides no solutions as to the restructuring of our economy. It is certainly a failure as far as my Territory is concerned. If the strategies in this Budget are continued- I repeat what I said at the outset of my remarks on the Australian Capital Territorythe Territory instead of being the pride of the nation will become a ghost town, simply a commuter town for public servants. That, in my view, would be a great tragedy. 
I rise to take the opportunity presented by the debate on the motion for the first reading of a money Bill to draw the attention of the Senate and members of the media- to those who are here present- and of the listening public to a particular area of disadvantage in the work force which has been neglected consistently by the Fraser Government. Earlier today in the Senate there was a debate on a motion by the Opposition that the plight of the unemployed in Australia and that the failure of the Government to take any positive steps towards a solution to the problem facing the very many unemployed throughout Australia was a matter of urgency. Much was said during that debate about unemployment amongst youth, about unemployment generally and about the plight of families who have had their livelihood taken from them because of the ineptness, the prejudices and the failures of the Fraser Government and the Lynch economic strategies. 
A very large group of the Australian work force has suffered a particular disadvantage and it seems, continues to suffer not only the disadvantage of unemployment, the lack of training schemes or retraining schemes or of being almost totally ignored by the Press; there are those who suffer the disadvantage of not being the subject of serious discussion or debate by persons who are in a position to do something about it. I refer to the very large number- in fact the unmeasured number- of unemployed married women workers in our community. It is probably known, even to honourable senators on the government side, that women in recent years have comprised about one-third of the work force. It is probably acknowledged by them that women workers contributed significantly to the growth of Australia during the boom period. However, what is not acknowledged by the Government or by anyone else, it would seem, is the circumstances facing women, particularly married women, who have lost their employment and their livelihood because of the current economic recession. 
I find it sadly ironical that we are being governed, in a manner of speaking, by a government which adheres to a philosophy of individualism and a philosophy of free choice. We constantly hear from the Government sentiments about the importance of people being able to choose what they do and the importance of people being able to get out and do things for themselves, to have incentive, to have motivation to improve their circumstances and so forth. We hear these sentiments repeated day in and day out in this chamber and in other places. Members of the public hear them too. Yet, if we look at what has happened to women in our community who have exercised the choice to be part of the work force, who have shown the incentive to go out to work for the improvement of their families or for thenself fulfilment, who have had the motivation to be constructive and energetic about their community and about their families, we find that the Government has totally ignored what has happened to them when they face unemployment. 
We also have a government that likes to indulge in discussion about the protection of individual rights and liberties and, indeed, a government which has gone so far as to present in the Parliament a Bill for the establishment of what it calls a human rights commission. We were told by the then Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  that the main purpose of the human rights commission would be to investigate and report on the extent to which legislation in Australia conformed with international conventions purporting to protect individual liberties, particularly in the area of freedom from exploitation and so on. Let us examine some of those international covenants and compare what is contained in them with what is the real situation in Australia today, specifically in regard to unemployed women workers and what the Government has done, or to be more accurate, has failed to do about them. The International Labour Organisation Declaration, Article 3 states: 
All measures shall be taken to guarantee women's right to work as the inalienable right of every human being and to revise, as necessary, existing laws, collective agreements, practices or customs which limit the integration of women in the workforce on a footing of equality with men. 
The United Nations draft convention Article 1 1 states: 
The State Parties shall undertake to adopt all appropriate measures to ensure to women, married or unmarried, equal rights with men in the field of economic social life and, in particular 
The right, equally with men to social security; particularly in case of retirement, unemployment, sickness, invalidity and old age or other incapacity to work, as well as the right to paid leave. 
Those conventions state quite admirable principles. What is unfortunate is that those principles are very far from being implemented in Australia in the current economic situation. What is even more unfortunate is that the government of the day, the Fraser Government, has taken absolutely no steps to ensure anything approximating the implementation of those principles of equality in the Australian situation. Despite the fact that women have constituted one-third of the work force until very recently, the unemployment rate for women as measured is higher than the rate for men in every category, and this is despite the fact that the mechanisms for recording the number of unemployed women are quite unsatisfactory. By that I mean that the recording of the unemployed takes place when unemployed persons go to the Commonwealth Employment Service office and register themselves as looking for employment. Those registers are the method by which unemployment in Australia is measured. 
The position in Australia is that the current practice in regard to the payment of the unemployment benefit, for which being registered as seeking employment is a necessary prerequisite, discriminates quite disastrously against married persons. I say 'married persons', not 'married women', because the Act does not discriminate on the basis of sex. However, it does discriminate against spouses whose partners are in employment to the extent that if persons who are married lose employment they are ineligible for the unemployment benefit if their spouse earns in excess of $6 a week. That situation prevails regardless of how many dependants the partners have to support. Because of that extremely discriminatory situation, most married women who lose their jobs and whose husbands remain in employment simply do not go to a Commonwealth Employment Service office to register as unemployed. They are discouraged from doing so. There are many reports to that effect. The overworked and understaffed staff at the Commonweath Employment Service offices do discourage women in these circumstances from registering as unemployed because they recognise that those women, or men if that happens to be the case, are not eligible for the unemployment benefit and indeed their chances of finding employment through the Commonwealth Employment Service are very small indeed. So these people do not register. Generally speaking, married women do not register as unemployed and therefore they are not counted in the unemployment statistics which are measured regularly by the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
Despite the fact that so many women do not register, for the reasons that I have just explained, the unemployment statistics still show a higher rate of unemployment amongst women than amongst men in every category and in some categories it is quite disastrously higher. The Australian Bureau of Statistics, which of course surveys unemployment in a different way from the Commonwealth Employment Service- it generally conducts surveys based on random sampling of persons in houses rather than people who come along to Commonwealth Employment Service offices- recently carried out a survey of the work force called 'The Labour Force, May 1977 '. It shows that the unemployment rate amongst females generally was 6.5 per cent in 
May and amongst males it was 4.3 per cent. For junior females- we have heard a lot about the extent of unemployment amongst youth- registered as unemployed in May 1977 the rate was 16.7 per cent, as opposed to 14 per cent for males. 
If we look at a group which I think can fairly be labelled as disadvantaged in the current economic situation- that is, the migrant workers- we find a higher rate again. For female migrants there is a 7.3 per cent unemployment rate, compared with a male rate of 4.5 per cent. The junior migrant female unemployment rate is 19.5 per cent, compared with 14.8 per cent for males. That means that nearly one-fifth of young migrant girls looking for employment cannot find it. That is really a very disturbing statistic. It is very disturbing when one considers that those girls are at the beginning of their working life and they have to try to find some means of supporting themselves in the years to come. Yet onefifth of them, as detected through the Australian Bureau of Statistics survey, are without employment. 
Despite the difficulty of measuring the extent of unemployment amongst women, an Australian Bureau of Statistics survey called 'Persons not in the Work Force' which was published recently claims that at least 200,000 women- that is nearly a quarter of a million women- are looking for jobs but cannot enter the work force either because there are not any jobs available or because child minding facilities are totally inadequate. So, over and above the general statistics on unemployment there are almost another quarter of a million Australian workers genuinely unemployed. 
When we look at that survey to see what the reasons are for this scandalous level of unemployment we find a variety of reasons, all of which could be ameliorated by a government which was serious about creating equality of opportunities for employment and all of which could be ameliorated by a government which was prepared to spend some time and some money on programs designed to create opportunities for employment for persons in the Australian work force. It shows that 17,500 women had insufficient work experience to gain work. Yet, of course, this Government has failed totally to establish proper retraining or work training facilities for women in this circumstance. It shows that 15,900 unemployed women are considered by employers to be too young or too old for work, whatever that may mean. I think one of the things it means is that sexist concepts are still alive and well in employer attitudes in Australia. 
So, in a way that is quite different from that for men and in a way that shows that they are much more disadvantaged than men, women often are judged to be too young or too old for work which they would be qualified to do. Yet I understand that this Government has done nothing by way of education programs to improve employer attitudes in this area. 
We find- I think this is particularly significant 11,000 unemployed women giving unsuitable hours- that is, shift work- as the reason why they cannot take employment. There again is highlighted the failure of the Government to provide an adequate child care service throughout Australia. It is the case, of course, that the Government has maintained in a way the child care program which was initiated by the Labor Government, but it certainly has not been prepared to put resources or planning into it so that the majority of women needing child care facilities to enable them to take employment would be in a position to do so. The child care allocation in the recently introduced Budget is of course no improvement on the amount of money that was made available least year and will not allow for any new child care projects. So, those 11,000 women who are unable to take employment, even if they could find it, because of a lack of child care services will continue to experience a lack of child care service in the forthcoming year. 
The survey shows that 19,000 unemployed women seeking employment found that there were no vacancies in the sort of work for which they were qualified. Again that is a very obvious indication of the need for proper manpower planning policies to be adopted by the Government, and for proper training and retraining schemes to train workers suffering unemployment to meet particular needs. We have, of course, no manpower planning scheme at all from the present Government. The Government's only response to unemployment seems to be ad hoc assistance to certain areas of private enterprise in the hope that somehow or other work will be created. There has been no attempt on the Government's part actually to train people for employment and no attempt on its part to search out markets and find viable areas of activity in which a national investment could be made. 
In the same survey we find that 7,400 single mothers with dependent children were looking for work and were unable to find it, probably for the variety of reasons I have already stated. What honourable senators may be aware of is that if women with dependent children are looking for work and cannot find it their fate, of course, is to be relegated to the supporting mothers' benefit. The supporting mothers' benefit is a pittance; it is barely enough to survive on. Depending on the supporting mother's commitment for rent, in some cases it is not enough to survive on. Yet that is the fate facing 7,400 women with the care of dependent children who are unable to find work. Again, there are no retraining schemes. There are no attempts to assist these women towards economic independence. They are relegated to the pittance of the supporting mothers' benefit. 

 - Senator Walters interjects to say that their children are assisted. I think the assistance to the children of supporting mothers amounts to about $7.50 a week which  Senator Walters,  who I understand is a parent herself, may realise is a hopelessly inadequate proportion of what it actually costs to support a child. 

 - Mr President, Senator Walters seems inclined to join this debate. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  For the sake of people listening to this debate, I should like-to clarify the claim that somehow the family allowance should satisfy supporting mothers who are seeking to rear children alone. Any mothers who are listening to the debate will be aware that the family allowance in the case of a mother with two children amounts to the princely sum of $8.50 a week. I do not think that even  Senator Walters  would have the hide to claim that $8.50 a week represents anything approximating what it costs to rear two children. What has happened in the current economic circumstances is that women who were welcomed by employers in the late 1950s and the 1960s because they were prepared to do the unskilled, the unpleasant, the low paid, the low status jobs- the production-line jobs in factories, the cleaning jobs in hospitals and so forth- are no longer wanted. As has been very ably demonstrated, I think, by members of the Opposition in this chamber the economic strategies of the Government have actually created unemployment, particularly in the areas of unskilled labour. By strategies like giving a capital investment allowance to company owners, the 
Government has actually encouraged employers to invest in expensive machinery which does away with the need for labour. So the employers get their taxation rebates and their investment allowance and all the rest of it and the workers lose their jobs. Many of the workers who have lost those sorts of jobs are women and, having lost their jobs, they are faced with permanent unemployment, with no support at all from the present Government. 
I find the response of the conservative government to this situation, or rather the complete lack of response to this situation, particularly cynical since it was during the period of a LiberalCountry Party government in this country that the whole movement of consumerism was advanced, that the whole advertising boom burst upon the Australian community and the whole materialistic objective of this society was created. It was during the period of the 1950s and the 1960s when the Liberals were in office that we were suddenly told that we had to have two cars, that we had to consume more and more, that we had to be constant consumers of the products of the factories of this country and of other countries. No longer was one income enough for one family; there had to be a two income family in order to keep pace with the incredible materialism that was inflicted on this community during the 23 years of Liberal- Country Party rule. At that time the employers were glad to have the unskilled, low paid labourer women, particularly migrant women. I see my colleague,  Senator Mulvihill,  nodding his head in agreement.  Senator Mulvihill  has often raised in this chamber the plight of women, particularly migrant women in factories. 
An excellent study was done of women, particularly migrant women in these circumstances who, not even speaking the language, were not in a position to claim decent wages and decent conditions and were not in a position to enlist the support of their union officials to fight for justice for them. The employers were very happy to ignore what was happening to their female work force and simply to use them and exploit them mercilessly in order to make profits. Now the situation has changed. The economic strategy of the Fraser Government has meant a complete collapse of manufacturing industry. Employers no longer want labour; they would rather have the capital equipment. So these women are thrown onto the unemployment market with no assistance whatsoever. What happened in the meantime was that many of these families, particularly migrant families who came to Australia to establish themselves, to get themselves a home- which perhaps was one of their main objectives in leaving the country of their birth- during the period of the 1950s and 1960s committed themselves to large mortgage repayments and to education expenses for their children and so forth. Suddenly they were deprived, in some cases of two incomes, but certainly in very many cases of one income. What happens when a two-income family, a low income family, is deprived of one income? 

 - Senator Mulvihill points out that the hire purchase people move in. Indeed they do, although it is heartening to see that the Labor Government in New South Wales is taking some steps to prevent this particular kind of exploitation of women. 

 - Senator Mulvihill is making very constructive additions to my intervention in this debate. What I find most appalling is that this Government, which is so pleased to spout constantly sentiments about the importance of the family unit, the importance of the family home and so forth, does not recognise the difficulties when a dual low income family is deprived of one income. In many cases known to me in the Austraiian Capital Territory, let alone cases known to other honourable senators who have a higher proportion of working class migrants in their electorates, these people are reduced to circumstances in which they lose their home, they cannot maintain the mortgage payments and they cannot maintain their hire purchase commitments. Of course they get no assistance from the Government, not even unemployment benefit for the unemployed spouse. 
It has been suggested that the Labor Governments is partly responsible for the current situation. Certainly we would admit that unemployment started to rise for a number of reasons during the period of the Labor Government. But the Labor Government had a very positive response to this. For example, it introduced the National Employment and Training scheme- the NEAT scheme. All unemployed persons who wished to acquire a skill by which they could subsequently gain employment were eligible for assistance under that scheme. They were paid a very substantial amount, $97.50 a week, which is more or less equivalent to what a woman worker would have been earning in a factory at that time. During the Labor Administration, if a migrant woman worker with a lot of family commitments or mortgage commitments lost her job, she could move into a training scheme and earn much the same sort of income from that training scheme. It was to be hoped that she would then move on to employment after that. One of the first acts of the Fraser Government was virtually to dismantle the NEAT retraining scheme and to reduce the basic ayment allowance to about $27- a reduction of 70 a week. I hope honourable senators on the opposite side can imagine what that would mean to a low income household. The Government also reduced the number of places available under the scheme. The figures for April this year showed that of the 17,500 persons currently training under the NEAT scheme, only 7,100 were women; 2,171 were women training onthejob; 1,250 were women in full-time training, a very low figure; and 230 were women in parttime training. Compared to the estimated figure of the Australian Bureau of Statistics of 200,000 women unemployed, the 7,000 who have some sort of training available to them under the NEAT scheme is a mere drop in the ocean. 
I raise this subject tonight because it seems to me that this particular group of unemployed married women, in most cases with dependants, has been totally neglected by the Fraser Government. The plight of unemployed school leavers has received a great deal of publicity and a number of band-aid schemes have been proffered by the Government because the Government recognises the serious political liability of a large number of unemployed school leavers coming on the market. We in the Opposition cannot express too seriously the concern with which we view the plight of unemployed school leavers. It seems to me that the plight of unemployed married women, whose families are dependent on their incomes, is at least as serious as the plight of unemployed school leavers and for that group of unemployed no schemes have been proffered. There has been no talk of inquiries, investigations, employer subsidy schemes or anything of that kind. It seems to me that it is the ultimate hypocrisy by a Government which professes the philosophy of individual choice and persons having the right to pursue employment if they so choose to ignore completely the fact that at least  200,000  women throughout Australia have been deprived of that very basic right; that is, the right to earn a living. 
It is outrageous that most of those women have suffered in financial terms and in personal terms. Their families have suffered disastrously. Most of their unemployment has been brought about by the inept economic management of the Fraser Government and yet nothing at all has been done. I have raised this matter in the Senate tonight and quoted these statistics in the hope that if not the Government, then the general community, may come to some understanding of this particularly serious manifestation of the economic recession and may join with me and other members of the Opposition in calling on the Government to take some steps to do something for that proportion of the work force, that potential one third of the work force, which at the moment is being neglected totally in their circumstances of unemployment by the Fraser Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a first time. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. The Schools Commission, in its report for 1 978, expressed the view that the full  $4m  cut across the services and development of special projects programs would have been so severe as to damage seriously their effectiveness. In view of the fact that the Government proposes to reject the Schools Commission's advice, does it believe that cuts of that order will not damage the programs' effectiveness? Secondly, if the Government rejects the Commission's advice, on what authority is it doing so? 
I rise this evening to draw the attention of the Senate to a very scandalous and unjust situation which now prevails in the Australian Capital Territory because of the recent decision of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  to introduce radical rent increases for all tenants of government houses in the Australian Capital Territory. Honourable senators may wonder why I choose this forum to raise this issue, which is indeed a local issue affecting only the people of the Australian Capital Territory.  Mr President,  I have to use the forum provided by the adjournment debate because there is no other forum in which these matters can be discussed. We have only one tier of government in the Australian Capital Territory. The Minister for the Capital Territory has failed to bring about a devolution of decision-making powers to a locally elected Legislative Assembly. The situation which we have at the moment, and which it seems we may have indefinitely, is that there is only one tier of government in the Australian Capital Territory and people in the Territory find that many decisions affecting their lives in the most basic ways are taken not by their elected representatives but by one person- the Minister for the Capital Territory, who of course is not answerable or accountable in any way to the residents of the Territory. 
In the past the system of government rental housing, particularly in the Australian Capital Territory, was designed to allow people to rent modest dwellings at rents compatible with their incomes. Now this situation has been totally distorted. The Minister for the Capital Territory has used the rental housing system in the Australian Capital Territory simply as a revenue-raising tool, simply as a means of getting profits for the Fraser Government, for increasing revenue by raising rents, paying no attention to the ability of people to pay, the condition of the accommodation they are renting or indeed any other local consideration. 
It has been a most scandalous and iniquitous decision by the Minister. Of course, it is not the first such decision. Rents have been increased several times since the Fraser Government came to power. Now many families and individuals renting accommodation from the Government in the Australian Capital Territory are faced with serious financial hardship. I have made many representations to the Minister on this matter, both for individual constituents facing hardship and in general, drawing his attention to the many inequalities and difficulties he has created. The Minister has not responded positively to any of my suggestions. For example, I wrote to him after receiving many representations from single parents, particularly single mothers, pointing out to him that the formula for working out a rental rebate took no account of the tenant's dependants or the fact that single mothers had to pay up to $30 a week for child care for each child under school age before they could start living. Yesterday the Minister wrote back to me, refusing to recognise the particular needs of single parents who must pay for child care and refusing to recognise the anomalies that occur in that an individual is assessed for rental rebate in exactly the same way as a person with four or five dependent children. He refused to look at the anomalies in this situation and refused to take any action. 
Similarly, in the Australian Capital Territory many people have become unemployed or selfemployed people have gone out of employment for a period of time because of illness, accident or something else. I have suggested to the Minister that he should consider applying a moratorium to the collection of rents from unemployed persons for the period that they are unemployed, with an agreement that those unemployed persons will repay the rent that accumulates during their period of unemployment at a reasonable rate once they return to employment. We have had no response from the Minister on that question. 
Because I consider the situation of many tenants badly affected by the Minister's decision to be quite desperate and because I have had no positive response from the Minister, or indeed from any Government supporter, I bring to the attention of the Senate tonight just a few extracts from letters I have received from constituents which illustrate the kind of problem that now prevails in Canberra. I do this in the hope that members and supporters of the Government  might see the necessity of a change of policy. The first letter - 
If  Senator Archer  will listen he will be able to make his own judgments about the comparison. The first letter is from a single mother who says: 
I have a part time job working every morning. If I was on the pension the breakdown would be: 
She then indicates that she would receive an income of $64 a week from the pension, would pay $15 in rent, $20 to run a car, leaving $29 a week for living expenses. She states that as it is, with her job and a part pension, she gets $100 a week income, pays $30 m rent, $20 in child care and $20 to run a car, which leaves her $30 a week on which to live. The letter continues: 
So because of my job. I have $ I more to live on than just being solely on the pension! From this, I have to pay electricity, petrol, food, chemist, clothing . . . and incidentals. I do not agree that single people with no dependants should pay the same rate as those with dependants. I think it is deplorable that child-care costs are not tax deductible or in some way eased for those who need it. 
That is the situation of the single mother. The situation of the family is similarly quite intolerable. The following is a letter from a person supporting a family: 
I am writing to protest against an increase of rent of a government house which we occupy. We have been living in this house for over 17 years. The increase of the rent in the last few years has been crippling. 
Over the years we have had to do our own maintenance and a lot of general repairs. Every time we write in for anything to be done, they never have the money or some excuse. 
It is only quite a small house: 2 bedroom, kitchen, lounge. We have to go outside for the toilet; there is no mod cons at all. 
I'm working to try and keep our heads above water. I am hoping there is something that can be done to help all of us. I think the government will have a lot of empty houses on their hands. 
Indeed it has. 
It is a specific rental. I now read a letter from a bachelor concerning his rent on a bachelor flat: 
As the tenant of a one-bedroom bachelor flat I have recently received notification from the Department of the Capital Territory that my rent is to be increased from $35 to $44. 10 a week. 
This is for an unfurnished bachelor flat. The letter continues: 
Whilst this increase does include a weekly rates payment of $3.10 I still feel that the rent is extremely high when compared to other Government dwellings such as two-bedroom flats and two and three-bedroom houses. 
Furthermore, when the Fraser Government assumed office in 1975 they made it clear that they intended to increase the rent of Government dwellings to bring them into line with current market values. I would argue that in this case they have exceeded the current market value for onebedroom furnished flats . . . 
I remind the Senate that the rent on this unfurnished, one-bedroom flat is now $44.10 a week. A cutting from the classified advertisements section of the  Canberra Times  is enclosed. It includes an advertisement on the commercial market of a bachelor flat in Lyons which is fully furnished and so on and so forth at $36 a week. That is evidence- indeed, there is plenty of other evidence- that not only has the Government pursued its shameful objectives of raising rents on government dwellings to commercial rates; it has exceeded commercial rates. It is acting in a more greedy and callous way than the worst type of private real estate agency. 
I have another letter from a lone parent, a supporting mother, which states: 
I am a 'Lone Parent ' and with the exception of the doubtful rise in child endowment I depend entirely on my wages to bring up my son. But another big rip-off like the rents and the 50 per cent increase in rates and I'll be better off on the pension, with the fringe benefits taken into account. 
I have three 'Lone Parent' friends who weighed the pros and cons and left their jobs, because they were that much better off on the pension and they have the pleasure of bringing up their children and not having to pay the exorbitant money to somebody else to help them. 
Just compare my take home pay now as against July 1976. In spite of the rises in gross pay and the high cost of living-I now take home $ 10 less. 
The recent stiff rises in rent for my government flat has driven me close to despair. Why is your government determined to depress my already low living standard and why should my son be disadvantaged because my money is being continually eroded by Government action. Why cannot those on a low income be given some sort of rent concession? Must I join my friends on Welfare? I love to work and contribute something to the country, but your government's actions are simply not making it worthwhile. 
Another elderly single divorcee has written: 
Originally, (five years ago) my rent was $6 per week, it increased to $21.30 per week and has now reached $29.40 per week. This is more than a 400 per cent increase in five years. 
I am a temporary public servant, a single divorcee and I am approaching the age of retirement. No doubt in a few years my rent will decrease when I go on the pension but in the meantime, I am finding it increasingly difficult, not only to pay my rent but to meet day to day costs (food /clothing/ medical expenses etc). 
Why has the Government adopted this deliberate policy to disadvantage people in the lower income bracket? 
Indeed, I cannot answer that question. Other complaints have come to me in personal representations. One relates to a supporting mother who has lost two homes because of a  drunken husband. She is now deserted and without any money. She has been struggling to make a home for herself and her 17-year-old daughter. She bought some furniture on hire purchase three and a half years ago when her rent was $48 a month. The rent is now $150 a month and she has to make hire purchase payments of $100 a month. She is in a position where she is going to lose the furniture she bought for the home she is trying to make for her child. 
Another single parent, this time a male, complains that he has been in a house for 16 months, during which time no maintenance or repairs have been done. He has to pay $30 a week for after-school minding for his children and in school holidays $40 a week.  His  rent is now up to $70.80 a fortnight and his gross salary is $147 a week, which makes him ineligible for a rental rebate under the present system. Honourable senators can imagine the hardship facing that person. Another family has complained that they have been in a house for seven years and the rent was recently raised from $10 a fortnight to $70.80 a fortnight. The tenants have spent hundreds of dollars on improvements on the bathroom, the hot water supply and so on, but there is no recognition of the improvements they have made. I add that there are no paths laid around the house, there is no inside lavatory, and the house is a 50-year-old weatherboard for which the Department of the Capital Territory is now charging $70.80 a fortnight. I think that is quite indefensible. 
I will not take up any more of the Senate's time by reading other letters.  Senator Knight  has just come into the chamber and I have no doubt that he has received hundreds of letters to the same effect. The situation cannot be allowed to prevail. The rental rebate scheme, which is meant to operate to assist low income families, is simply not operating. Virtually no wage earner can get a rental rebate. Pensioners can do so, but virtually no wage earner can obtain a rebate because no allowance is made for dependent children or child care fees. In the Budget which has just been brought down there is an allocation of $3m for the entire rent rebate scheme and it is expected that there will be 2,300 recipients of rental rebates in the forthcoming year. The amount of $3m allocated to the rent rebate scheme for low income families is hopelessly inadequate. If we look at the estimated revenue from this profit-making exercise of renting government accommodation we find that the estimated revenue for the forthcoming financial year is $2 lm. 
I am quoting from documents prepared by officers of your Minister's Department,  Senator. You  do not need to express disbelief. The estimated revenue for this year is $21m, whereas last year's revenue amounted to $15,594,607. That is an absolute increase of $5,405,393, or 34.7 per cent. That is pure profit made by the Housing Branch of the Department of the Capital Territory. It is running a profit making operation which is designed simply to extract as much money as possible from tenants, regardless of their ability to pay. 
I raise this matter tonight because it is of great urgency. A number of very severe social problems arise out of this situation because families, individuals or single parents are being charged rents they simply cannot afford to pay. As I have said, the Minister has been totally unresponsive to any positive suggestions I have made. It seems to me that what has happened is that the Minister sees the government housing scheme in the Australian Capital Territory merely as a means of raising revenue for the Government. He has taken no account of the age of the dwelling, of the state of repair of the dwelling, of the ability of people to pay and of the length of time they have been tenants. Some of these people have been tenants for 20 years. Of course, the Minister takes no account of the overall economic situation which now prevails in the Australian Capital Territory because of the Government's policy. The situation is one of high unemployment, of loss of income of self employed persons, of loss of profits for people in business and so forth. The situation is scandalous. 
There is no way that the locally elected body, the Legislative Assembly, can affect the situation because it has been given no powers to do so. There is only one tier of government here. As a representative in that tier of government I feel obliged to raise the matter tonight, in the hope- I am not terribly optimistic judging from some of the comments which have been made as I have been speaking- that supporters of the Government and  Senator Webster,  who represents the Minister for the Capital Territory, will pay some attention to what is happening to families and individuals because of this iniquitous system. I hope supporters of the Government will prevail on the Minister for the Capital Territory to conduct a rational review of rental accommodation in the Australian Capital Territory with the objective of getting it back to the system which existed under a succession of coalition governments and under an Australian Labor Party government. Government rental accommodation was a means of providing modest accommodation for people on modest incomes without charging them beyond their means. That is what government housing in the Australian Capital Territory is for. At the moment government housing is being run like a racketeer real estate agency business. It is a scandal. I call on the Minister and on any supporters of the Government who might feel inclined to support me to press for a review of the situation and for a return to a just and equitable rental system. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether it is a fact that the monthly Commonwealth Employment Service bulletins on the numbers of people registered as unemployed are to be discontinued and to be replaced with surveys done by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. If this is the case, will the Minister tell the Senate what the cost of this transfer of responsiblity is to be and explain the reason why the Minister has decided on this course of action? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
Did the Member for Canberra,  Mr Haslem,  state on the radio program  A.M.  on Friday, 19 August 1977, that the Prime Minister had advised that dismissed Australian Government employees would have the right to appeal to the Ombudsman under the provisions of the Commonwealth Employees ( Employment Provisions) Act 1 977. 
2 ) Did the Prime Minister so advise  Mr Haslem. 
Does the Ombudsman Act 1976 provide for such appeals, or is the Ombudsman precluded by the Act from entertaining any appeals against Ministerial decisions. 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he is aware of the hardship and injustice arising from long delays currently experienced by litigants in the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court. Does he know, for example, that as of 17 October 1977, 75 civil cases were ready for hearing but had not been given a hearing date in that Court? Does he know that persons have spent up to four months in custody before being brought to trial? What steps has he taken, or will he take, to amend the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act to allow for the appointment of additional judges and to appoint sufficient judges to the Court to prevent the delays currently being experienced? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister received a letter from the Vice-Chancellor of the Australian National University, written at the request of the council of the university, expressing concern over the threat to the Australian National University's independence posed by the Commonwealth Employees Act? Can the Minister confirm that academic staff of the Australian National University are affected by the Commonwealth employees legislation and that therefore the academic freedom of the Australian National University would be eroded by the operation of the legislation? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Are national servicemen specifically excluded, under the Defence (Re-establishment) Act 1965, from the provisions that permit servicemen to accrue sick leave for the purpose offulfilling Australian Public Service sick leave conditions. 
Has the question of recognition of prior service by national servicemen for sick leave purposes been under review by the Public Service Board since 1974. 
Will the Minister indicate when this review will be concluded. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of a publication of the Australian Bureau of Statistics dated 1 1 October 1977 on job vacancies? Has his attention been drawn to the fact that only 15.9 per cent of the registered job vacancies are available specifically for females whereas 55.5 per cent are available specifically for males? In the light of this serious disadvantage facing women seeking employment, does the Government propose to set up any job creation schemes or employer subsidy schemes designed specifically to improve the employment situation for women? 
Has the Minister for Social Security seen a report in a weekend newspaper that her Department intends to introduce a sole parents benefit as part of the Government's election policy? The report suggests that, as no provision has been made for the inclusion in the Budget of a benefit for lone fathers, their benefit will be made available at the expense of supporting mothers, who will find it harder to qualify. Can the Minister confirm that this is so? Alternatively, will she guarantee that there will be no arbitrary tightening up of the supporting mothers benefit to provide the money needed to pay lone fathers a benefit as well? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. I preface my question by pointing out that the latest figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics on unemployment shows a far greater incidence of unemployment amongst girls under 19 years of age than amongst boys of the same age. I remind the Minister of a recommendation made by the Prime Minister that women's units should be set up in the relevant departments to deal with the special problems facing women. I ask the Minister why his Department so far has appointed only one officer to its women's unit despite an agreement if reached with the Public Service Board that two officers are needed to made the unit effective. Will the Minister explain why there has been a delay of almost a year in the establishment of a women's unit in his department? 
Yes,  Mr President. 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Has he seen reports of an Australian 
National University survey which reveals that 53 per cent of all top position holders in business, politics and the universities had privileged educations in private schools? Does his transference of about $5m of the taxpayers money from government schools to elite private schools mean that the Government wishes to increase educational opportunities of already privileged children at the expense of the disadvantaged children in government schools and the least affluent non-government schools? 
In the course of the answer given by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to the last question, he said words to the effect that honourable senators should note the hatred of members of the Opposition of the nongovernment sector. I claim that that is a misrepresentation. In the very wording of the question which I put to the Minister I referred to the disadvantaged children in the non-government schools, that is, the level six schools. I should think the program of funding of non-government schools during the term of the Labor Administration demonstrates in itself that for the Minister to speak of a hatred of non-government schools on the part of the now Opposition is a gross misrepresentation. 
-The Senate is debating the Social Services Amendment Bill 1 977 which the opposition does not oppose in its entirety. I rise to support the amendment moved by  Senator Grimes  and to remind the chamber that the Opposition will be opposing clause 15. The Opposition welcomes the extension of eligibility for the handicapped child's allowance and the free rehabilitation programs of the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service to certain classes of persons who were previously excluded from it. The Opposition welcomes the introduction of a lone parent's benefit for supporting fathers despite the misinterpretation put on our attitude by  Senator Walters,  although for the reasons outlined clearly by  Senator Grimes  we have reservations about the way in which it has been introduced and the limitations which will prevent some supporting fathers from gaining the full benefit. 
However, there are aspects of the Bill with which we find ourselves in total opposition and the most significant of these is the provision giving effect to the Government's decision to withdraw eligibility for unemployment benefit from school leavers for the first six weeks after they leave school, and from tertiary students leaving before the completion of their courses. This is a subject that has received a great deal of attention in the Senate and finally, after 12 months of a de facto situation in which school leavers were denied eligibility for unemployment benefit for six weeks, the Government has admitted the unsatisfactory legal aspect of what it has been doing to date and has introduced a provision which will make legal this denial of unemployment benefit for school leavers. Because it will become legal as we in the Opposition are not sufficiently numerous to prevent it happening, does not mean that the provision is fair or just. 
One should ask at this point why the Fraser Government has been so anxious to isolate this group of unemployed persons and deny to them a benefit which should be available to all unemployed persons. One should ask, and I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will provide this information, how much the Government expects to save this financial year by the introduction of this legislation. I ask whether the Government or the Minister has considered the social cost of introducing this provision, whether it has considered the cost to the low income family that needs some income from its school leaving children by way of wages or, in the case of unemployed children, by way of unemployment benefit. Has it considered what will happen to those low income families which have a lot of children to support- perhaps there is sickness in the family- and which need to send their teenagers out into the work force. If they cannot find employment they will get nothing for the first six weeks. What will be the social cost of depriving those families of the assistance which they reasonably might have expected from their teenage children? What will be the effect on the school leavers themselves who in most cases upon leaving school cannot find a job- even though they are leaving school for that purposecannot get the unemployment benefit and are forced into a position of total dependence on their parents? Their parents may not be in a position to support them for this period of six weeks before the Government recognises that they are part of the work force and are genuinely seeking employment. 
It seems to me that this new provision applies not only to students who leave at the end of the year but also to students leaving school at any time during the year. If I am wrong in this interpretation I hope that the Minister will correct me. However, it seems that whatever time of the year students leave school they will be forced to take the sui week's vacation before they will be eligible to receive the unemployment benefit even if their specific reason for leaving school before the end of the year was to give financial support to their families or because their families could no longer support them. The Opposition believes that the Government's action is unjustified and, when returned to Government will repeal this provision which is particularly unjustified and callous in the current unemployment situation. If it were the case that school leavers could expect to find work after the six week's period, we still would not accept this new provision but would not find it so obnoxious. 
I take this opportunity to remind the Senate of some facts and figures because it is time some facts were introduced into the debate about the work force situation for the majority of school leavers in this country. The Australian Bureau of Statistics August 1977 labour force figures show that 22,500 junior females and 15,200 junior males between the ages of 15 and 19 years seeking their first job are unemployed. That is a total of 37,700 juniors seeking their first job. They represent school leavers who are unemployed. The total of unemployed juniors is 118,200 which means that 28.3 per cent of all junior females and 16.3 per cent of all juniors, male and female, are unemployed. This high level of unemployment is not just a transient phenomenon. It is not a position which they can get out of in a couple of weeks. It is a long term situation. 
The same publication that I have been referring to measures the duration of unemployment amongst these young people and the average length for all juniors is 21.5 weeks. It is slightly higher for females. Those figures alone give us some conception of the situation in which school leavers will find themselves at the end of this year but because there still seems to be a failure on the part of the Government to really come to terms with the drastic nature of the situation I remind the Senate of the job vacancy situation. The Australian Bureau of Statistic 's publication for March 1977 which measured job vacancies showed that for junior females there were 1,800 job vacancies. For junior males there were 2,500 job vacancies and jobs which were available to females or males numbered 1,000. So the total number of jobs available for registered juniors was 5,300. 
I emphasise that figure because I would like now to compare it with the total number of unemployed juniors, that is, 118,200. The discrepancy is appalling. No matter how hard most school leavers try, no matter how assiduous they are in pursuing employment opportunities, no matter how many interviews they go for, no matter where they seek help, no matter how many hours of the day and night they spend writing applications, trudging around or how much money they spend on bus fares looking for jobs, most of them will not get jobs. We should abandon for all time this notion that jobs are there for those who really want them and that if a kid has a bit of gumption and determination he will find a job. The statistics are against that point of view. There are 5,300 jobs for 1 18,200 registered unemployed juniors and we know that the real situation is worse than those statistics represent. So there is no way that the majority of those leaving school at the end of this year will get jobs. Some will, but they will be the minority. Those who do not get jobs will have the additional burden of having no income whatsoever. They will not have even the unemployment benefit as a source of income to help them while they look for jobs. In those circumstances the decision of the Government to legally deny the unemployment benefit to school leavers is reprehensible. 
It is not as though the Government were taking significant steps to assist unemployed juniors. We recognise that there have been a number of schemes introduced which purport to give training or work experience or provide job creation opportunities for unemployed juniors. But such schemes have been pathetically minimal in their effect. The fact that their effect has been so minimal demonstrates beyond doubt that this Government is impervious to the situation of high unemployment amongst young people. The Government recognises that it is a political problem and that it will be an electoral liability in the weeks to come. So it has made some gesture towards the problem. It has introduced some band-aid schemes about which, no dobut, we will hear endlessly for the next five weeks. But if we look at the effect of those schemes we see that it has been quite pathetic. 
When I was researching information to use in my contribution to this debate another problem I found was that it is very difficult to obtain information about just how these schemes are operating, how many young people have been involved in them and how many jobs have resulted from them. It seems to me that that is another failure of the Government. Not only are the schemes minimal, fragmentary and virtually useless as a remedy for the entire situation, but the administration of the schemes seems to be very poor, to the point that a member of the Australian Parliament can find scarcely any information about them. We have found that the only figures available from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations have been in respect of the National Employment and Training scheme and the Special Youth Employment Training Program. It would appear that the figures for the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship Fulltime Training scheme and the Community 
Youth Support scheme are not available. The figure for the former scheme will be available at the end of the technical education year when the employers claim reimbursement from the Government for employees' time off to attend courses. 
The figures for the NEAT scheme which we have been able to obtain show that  4,966  females and  8,684  males were engaged in the program. A total of  13,650  young persons were engaged in the program. I draw attention to the position in the Australian Capital Territory, where only  96  young persons were engaged in the program. The figures show that  25,544  persons were involved in the Special Youth Employment Training Program. Again, I mention specifically that in the Australian Capital Territory only  230  people were involved. There is another program called the Education Program for Unemployed Youth, in which  500  juniors are involved. If we add all those figures together, we still do not get anywhere near a series of programs that are coming to terms with the  1 18,200  unemployed juniors. Again, this reflects back to the particular aspect of the legislation before us to which the Opposition is so opposed. I refer to the provision to enable the Government legally to deny unemployment benefit to school leavers. Not only are there no jobs for most of those school leavers and no training schemes or schemes whereby they can be assisted to find a job, but no unemployment benefit is availablethe final crunch, one expects, for a number of young people who are trying to start their working lives. 
I was interested also to find what was stated in a news release put out by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  on  3  November- a couple of days ago- in which he announced the subsidies being paid to employers under the NEAT scheme. He said that the subsidies will now amount to  3716  per cent of the male average adult award wage for trainees receiving adult wages and  27V4  per cent of the male average adult award wage for junions. The actual amounts are  $54  and  $39.50  respectively. The  $39.50  which now will be paid to employers providing training to juniors under the NEAT scheme is very similar to the unemployment benefit payable to juniors who finally gain eligibility for unemployment benefit. It occurred to me: If the Government is spending so much money just paying out unemployment benefit to juniors and is prepared to subsidise employers to the same extent, why is not much more of the unemployment benefit money being diverted to training opportunities for juniors? It seems to be a problem of organisation and distribution, even if we are talking about the same amount of money being made available. Again, it seems to demonstrate that the Government is not very anxious to find a solution to the problem of employed school leavers, except insofar as it wishes, for the purposes of the coming election, to demonstrate a few token schemes which have absorbed just a few thousand of the unemployed youth. 
The other provision in the legislation before us to which I would like to give some attention is that in relation to sickness benefit. I was totally amazed by the manner in which this provision was described in the second reading speech. It was described in the following words: 
This provision - 
That is, the provision which will be affected by the legislation-  is considered to discriminate against women. It will be repealed. In future a married woman will be able to qualify for a sickness benefit on the same basis as a married man. 
When I read that and when I heard other remarks made by the Government about the purpose of changing the sickness benefit provision, I, and I presume any other rational person, formed the impression that some new eligibility was to be created. Indeed, I think,  Senator Walters  said something about the situation of women being improved by this provision. Further on in the second reading speech we are told that in future the combined income of both husband and wife will be taken into account in assessing the rate of sickness benefit, as is the case with other income tested pensions and benefits. Certainly, that is the case with other income tested pensions and benefits. However, that means that, whereas formerly a married woman who became sick and lost her job was expected to be supported by her husband, the same situation will apply. 
The so-called new eligibility simply means that if a husband has an income of more than  $6  a week the benefit will be lost progressively until the couple reaches an income level at which the Government has decided a married couple can live, which was  $78.50  a week but has just been increased to  $82.20  a week. So, in fact there is no change in the circumstance of a woman who loses her job through sickness and wishes to apply for sickness benefit. Previously she was expected to be supported by her husband. Now, as a result of this new eligibility provision, she will still be supported by her husband. 
Certainly there has been a change in entitlements. It is not that a new entitlement is being extended to women; it is that an entitlement has been taken away from husbands whose wives are in employment. The situation until now was that if a man was working and lost his job through sickness he could claim his sickness benefit even if his wife was in employment. That entitlement has been taken away. Certainly a sort of technical equality- one could say an equality of disadvantage- has been introduced in the legislation, but I find it quite amazingly hypocritical that this change has been expressed in language which suggests that some new provision has been extended to women. 
I would like the Senate to consider what this change will mean. In the case of a low income family with two incomes, when the husband becomes ill and has to leave his employment he will not be eligible for sickness benefit if his wife is working. What might very easily happen is that, because he is sick and there are children and so forth, the wife may have to give up her job to care for the husband and the children. In that case she would not be entitled to claim the unemployment benefit, the sick husband would receive the married rate of sickness benefit and the wife could earn only $6 a week if the couple received the married rate payment, which is now $82 a week. The overall income of the family would be reduced to about $88 a week. That seems to me to be an extremely harsh circumstance to visit upon a dual income family in which the husband and wife are both working hard to keep up their payments and meet their commitments. Suddenly, because of the sickness of one party, the whole family is reduced to living on $88 a week, with perhaps a supplementary benefit later on. That will be the real effect achieved by this provision, which is supposed to have some beneficial effect for women. Clearly, the withdrawal of this benefit, even though it might be anomalous in terms of the fact that unemployed spouses will be ineligible - 
-No, I am not. With the withdrawal of this benefit, low income families, such as migrant families where both partners have to go out to work, will be hit very hard indeed. The lowest paid workers again will be hit very hard. Most of them have to be working for three months before being entitled to receive sick pay from their place of work. Usually sick pay in those sorts of low income areas of work lasts for only five days. It seems to me that the Government is going to save very little by this new provision- perhaps half a million dollars; it is hard to assess- but thousands of families might be reduced to poverty as a result of the loss of eligibility, particularly in the case where working wives of sick husbands have to give up work. 
I remind the Senate that when a working wife does have to give up her job to support her husband her whole family goes on to the social security benefit. I wonder what sort of cost benefit this sort of change actually represents over a period of time. It seems to me that a much fairer way of reconciling the anomaly that existed under the old provision would have been to introduce some sort of provision which would permit either partner to retain eligibility if the family income was very low. I remind the Senate that the poverty line as defined in the income figures for the June quarter of 1977 for a married couple with two children was $111.90 a week, which represents a yearly income of about $6,000. 
I heard some comment from the opposite side of the chamber about the average wage. I sometimes wonder what Government senators know about working families and their incomes. As I said, an income of $110 a week represents a yearly wage of about $6,000. The Australian Bureau of Statistics publication of income distribution statistics for May 1977 showed that 24.5 per cent of all workers fell within the group of people earning around $1 10 a week or less. That is a very high proportion of the work force. Of course, not all those wage earners had families to support; some of the them were part time workers and so forth. I recognise that. Nonetheless, the ABS statistics show that 24.5 per cent of all workers in our work force earn around $6,000 a year. That is the figure which Professor Henderson- 
If  Senator Archer  would pay attention to the figures I am sure that they would be quite a novelty to him. It comes as no surprise to me that he is expressing amazement and surprise at the figures. 
I shall repeat what I have been saying because I think it is important background information in this debate. The situation being created by the new provisions being introduced by the Fraser Government will affect most low income families. I am presenting evidence to the effect that 24.5 per cent of all workers earn about $6,000 per annum. That figure represents the poverty line where the income earner has to support a non-working spouse and two children. So we have this very large group of people living on the poverty line who will not be eligible for sickness or, indeed, unemployment benefit when one partner- 
If  Senator Archer  doubts the figures I am quoting I shall be quite happy to get the ABS publication and table it. As I said before, it comes as no surprise to me that these figures are a novelty to him because I do not think he or any of his colleagues interest themselves in what happens to low income families in our community. 
I am looking for the figure representing women in the work force. Of course, it is a figure which is not growing as quickly as used to be the case. I did have the figure for the number of married women in the work force, but I do not seem to be able to find it now. This time I shall not quote from an ABS publication, but there are roughly 1,500,000 women in the work force. I think about two-thirds of those women are married. So approximately 1,000,000 women would represent dual income families. I mention that figure to demonstrate to the Senate that the dual income family is a fact of life in our community, particularly in the low income areas. Many honourable senators present tonight might be able to afford not to have a working spouse, but for the low income workers in our community the dual income family has become a necessity. So these provisions which discriminate against the dual income family or take no account of the hardship which flows to them when unemployment or sickness prevents one partner from continuing to earn his or her wage are, I think, quite irresponsible. 
In conclusion I repeat that the Opposition opposes entirely the unjust but soon to be legal provision which will deny the eligibility for unemployment benefit to school leavers for a period of six weeks after leaving school. We have opposed this practice while it has been a de facto practice and we shall continue to oppose it when it becomes a legal practice. Of course, when a Labor Government is returned that provision will be repealed. With respect to the other provisions of the legislation, we have no objection. However, I was pleased to have the opportunity to draw the attention of some honourable senators at least to the very difficult circumstances facing low income families in our communitydifficult circumstances which the new provision with regard to sickness benefit will do nothing whatsoever to alleviate and in future cases will do a great deal to worsen. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 18 October 1977: 
Has the Attorney-General received a number of suggested amendments to the Australian Capital Territory Small Claims Ordinance; if so, when will such amendments be referred to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly for consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
How many Family Law Courts are located in each State and in which cities-towns. 
How many Family Law Court Judges are there at present. 
Is there provision for appointing more Judges; if so, when will they be appointed and how many. 
In each Family Law Court what are the current delays being experienced in (a) divorce hearings; (b) property settlements; and (c) allocation of custody of children 
What plans are being proposed to shorten delays in these areas. 
I  present the following petition from 2 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned electors of the Divisions of Canberra and Fraser respectfully showeth: 
That they strongly oppose the proposed residential development of an area generally known as Section 22 Yarralumla, which includes the undeveloped area between Yarralumla Bay and Hopetoun Circuit, for environmental reasons and because the open areas of the foreshore, which could be required for future recreation purposes, could be seriously depleted in an area already showing the need for increased provision of picnic grounds. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government proclaims that area bounded by Novar Street, Schlich Street, Hopetoun Circuit and the proposed Coronation Drive, Yarralumla, excluding that already developed, be proclaimed as a non-residential or non-building area set aside as an open space for recreational purposes. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise to oppose the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill 1977. 1 support the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Button  which seeks that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted completely. The Opposition has been extremely concerned about the whole progress of the Fraser Government with respect to the media. Since the inception of this Government, it has made an ongoing attack on the independent aspects of the media in Australia and has undertaken an ongoing manipulation by way of restructuring the media. We in the Opposition believe that the media itself is one of the most important instruments for preserving democracy. We hope that in Australia we still have a democracy to be preserved. 
We also recognise that the various forms of the media are so powerful in their effect on citizens and on growing children that they present an instrument which is very open to manipulation. It is for this reason that we, both in this chamber and outside it, have stressed constantly the importance of preserving the independence and the objectivity of national broadcasting and of restraining the commercial sector when it acts in a way which is contrary to the public interest and to the interest of democracy. We were very pleased when it appeared that there would be a restructuring which would divest the Minister of his powers to control the media and would set up a tribunal which would be an objective, expert body, accessible to the public and so forth, whose main function would be the regulation of licences. Of course, that has not happened. 
We have waited for this legislation for a long time. Now that it has come before us we are totally disappointed in it and oppose it totally. That is not to say that there is not the odd thing in this legislation which would not be acceptable in the context of another piece of legislation, but the legislation contains so many obnoxious and dangerous aspects that we have no alternative but to oppose it completely. My colleague  Senator Button,  in introducing the Opposition's contribution to this debate, gave a very thorough and comprehensive summary of the media situation in Australia today and of the developments that have taken place since the Fraser Government came into office. As I have said, most of those developments have been rather alarming. I should like briefly to remind the Senate of the very bad record of the Fraser Government with respect to broadcasting. 
First of all, there was the very partisan and inappropriate appointment of  Sir Henry  Bland as  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, an appointment which was disastrous and was resolved finally when  Sir Henry  Bland realised how disastrous the situation had become and relieved the Government of the embarrassment his presence was causing by resigning. Many attacks were made on the independence of the ABC during the period of  Sir Henry  Bland's chairmanship and, I think, in a more subtle way even since his chairmanship ceased. There has been a cutting of funds for the ABC; there has been a reduction in the kinds of programs and range of programs offered by the ABC; there has been interference in current affairs programs- a restriction in the range of points of view which can be presented in current affairs programs; and there certainly has been a lowering of quality of national broadcasting. I believe that the lowering of the quality of some of the drama productions and so forth is a direct result of the cut in funds. Good television drama series, for example, simply cannot be made without adequate funds to pay for rehearsal time, careful formulation of scripts and so forth. Of course, that adequate financing no longer exists. 
Then the commercial sector was looked at by the Government. An Australian Broadcasting Tribunal was appointed to conduct an inquiry into self-regulation and subsequently to engage in licensing procedures. But again the appointment of somebody with a clearly partisan background in terms of the industry,  Mr Bruce  Gyngell, caused a great deal of scepticism throughout the community as to the objectivity and the independence of the Tribunal. Indeed, it is interesting to note that when the first report of the Tribunal, dealing with self-regulation in broadcasting, was brought down the  Chairman  was in disagreement with the other two members of the Tribunal. Perhaps this demonstrates the fears which we in the Opposition had that the  Chairman  would not be objective with regard to the commercial broadcasting industry in this country. 
It is disappointing too that the Government has not permitted adequate consideration in the Parliament of the Tribunal's report on selfregulation before introducing the legislation which is before us. The report of the Tribunal raises some very important questions. On the whole, I think it raises those questions in an intelligent and informative way. They are questions which should have been properly discussed in the Parliament before further legislation on this matter was introduced. Although there has been no proper consideration of the report within the Parliament, this legislation is brought before us on the second last day of a parliamentary session which has been brought to a premature and hasty conclusion. 
As well as those acts of the Government which I have just enumerated, there was also the closure of the ethnic radio station 3ZZ. I was astounded to hear the previous  speaker, Senator Lajovic,  suggest that the Australian Labor Party when in government was not sympathetic to or had no interest in ethnic broadcasting. The whole issue of ethnic broadcasting became an issue on the initiative of the Labor Government. It is because of the on-going support of ethnic broadcasting and, indeed, of ethnic groups generally by members of the Opposition that there has been further developments and some gesture on the part of the Fraser Government-tokenistic though it is- in this area. 
Given the record of the Fraser Government with respect to broadcasting in both the public and the private sectors, it should come as no surprise that we approach this Bill with a great deal of scepticism. When we examine the provisions of the Bill we find that so many of them are totally repugnant in terms of what one would wish for a broadcasting system in a democratic, pluralistic and multilingual society. We have a number of objections to the Bill, some of which will be discussed in more detail at the Committee stage. I should like to draw attention to some specific objections we have which perhaps  Senator Button  did not mention. For example, clause 3 relates to pecuniary interests. I recollect now that  Senator Button  did describe our objection to that provision. It appears that the provision requiring a person who becomes a member of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to divest himself of pecuniary interests is a very superficial one indeed. A person may be appointed and then have 14 days to get his affairs in such order as would not attract critical comment from the public or from the media. We are very unhappy with that provision. 
Clause 8 is another cause for concern. That clause seeks to substitute a new section 19 in the Broadcasting and Television Act. Proposed new section 19 (2) reads: 
Where the Tribunal is satisfied that, by reason of the confidential nature of any evidence or matter or for any other reason, it is desirable that the Tribunal should give directions of all or any of the following kinds, namely . . . 
The clause goes on to list ways in which evidence which comes before the Tribunal can be suppressed. We find this provision worthy of concern. We do not claim that all evidence given before the Tribunal should be revealed to anyone at any time, but this provision for confidentiality seems to us to erode very seriously the public interest in the matter. It could give rise to manipulation and suppression of evidence which it is in the public interest should be revealed. 
In clause 10 there is a rather strange and badly defined reference to persons who may appear before the Tribunal. It would appear that the Tribunal will be able to decide who appears before it and who does not. Again, this is quite alarming, given that the whole function of the Tribunal, as claimed by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  is to conduct public inquiries. It would seem from clause 10, which seeks to insert section 22AA into the Act, that people may come before the Tribunal only if the Tribunal decides that those people have an interest in the proceedings. In the legislation no attempt is made to define in any specific or objective way of what an interest in the proceedings may consist. So it would appear from clause 10 that an ordinary member of the public who has a genuine interest and concern in a matter and who wishes to put a point of view before the Tribunal may be denied that opportunity because the Tribunal might decide that that person's interest is not appropriate. We are quite concerned about the possible ramifications of that. 
I am speaking about the legislation before us. When the Government withdraws and redrafts this Bill, if it is going to do that, we should like to see much more objective and clear-cut definitions of what constitutes interest' and who can come before the Tribunal. I shall be interested to hear  Senator Missen  's contribution in this debate, particularly in these respects. Clause 1 1 contains a reference to public interest, but again that reference is not specific. That clause seeks to amend section 25 of the Act by adding the following sub-section: 
Subject to section 19, the Tribunal shall ensure that every person having an interest in proceedings before the Tribunal at an inquiry is given a reasonable opportunity to present his case . . . 
What is a reasonable opportunity and who are those people who have an interest? The whole situation from the point of view of the community is totally unsatisfactory. There is another provision in clause 18 which we find of concern. That is contained in Division 5- Finance, 79ZA (d). In respect to the provision that the special broadcasting service may be privately sponsored it states: moneys received by the Service in respect of program sponsorship of a kind approved by the Minister. 
Again it would seem that, if this new broadcasting service can be privately sponsored in a way approved by the Minister, that may not always be in the public interest. We know that there are groups and bodies in the community which can well afford to sponsor certain kinds of programs and those which could never afford such sponsorship. It is quite likely under that provision that those with the money will get the power yet again when it comes to broadcasting and sponsorship of programs. They are some of the specific objections. We have many more. 
I shall move on to the more general and serious objections which lead us not merely to propose amendments to the legislation but to oppose the entire legislation. The first major fault and alarming feature of the Bill is the extent to which it extends ministerial control over broadcasting. I repeat that it extends ministerial control; it does not restrict it. Even though the Minister in his second reading speech claimed to be divesting himself of power and control over broadcasting in respect of the proposed body, when one looks at the provisions of the Bill one finds that the Minister is increasing his own control. This is a totally unacceptable development in a democratic political system. The Minister's claim that the present ministerial powers in the licensing area are transferred to the Tribunal by the Bill is simply not true. While formal power to grant and renew licences is given to the Tribunal by the Bill, the most significant part of the real power over licensing is to remain firmly in the hands of the Minister. Without any reference to the Tribunal or any public discussion, the Minister will be able to specify the nature and purpose of the service to be provided in pursuance of each licence as well as the area to be served. 
That is a serious extension of the Minister's power. I repeat what the Minister can do. He can actually decide what sort of a licence it is to be and where the licence is to operate. The Minister will have power to specify the nature and purpose of programming as well as the technical specifications for all commercial and public radio and television stations. This will enable the Minister to have significant influence on the granting of licences by formulating specifications tailor-made for one applicant and quite unsuited to others. I do not think it takes very much imagination to conceptualise how that would operate. In some cases this ministerial decision could eliminate all but one applicant in advance of any Tribunal hearing. 
As these ministerial specifications determine the scope of the Tribunal's inquiries, the powers given to the Minister by thus Bill are clearly greater than those transferred to the Tribunal. In addition, the Bill gives the Minister power to vary, revoke or add to the specifications at any time. That provision is contained in the proposed new section 85 (3). This means that in spite of the Tribunal's formal power over licence revocation the Minister will have an effective power of licence revocation through his power to alter the specifications without any kind of public hearing or a decision by the Tribunal. For example, a public broadcasting licence issued for the special purpose of producing music programs of a special kind could be effectively revoked by a ministerial decision which varies the special condition of the licence and substitutes for it another which is incompatible with the purpose of the licensee. It is very clear that only the most limited 
S powers in the area of licensing are to be transerred to the Tribunal by this Bill. The real power stays with the Minister. Where they are transferred to the Tribunal they give inadequate opportunity for the public to participate. 
The Bill gives to the Tribunal responsibility in licensing areas for deciding which, if any, of the applicants will be granted a new licence. That has been tailored to the Minister's specification for laying down such conditions of a licence as it sees fit on matters not covered by the Minister's powers. In view of the wide powers of the Minister, the Tribunal's conditions will be substantially confined to programming and advertising standards. Enforced observance of the conditions of a licence through the power of suspension, revocation and short term renewal of licence include the enforced observance of ownership and control provisions of the Act. Of course, the Tribunal will have the power for the approval of licence transfers. Substantial powers in the licensing area are retained in the hands of the Minister. The Minister will be able to lay down licence specifications and to alter those specifications at any time entirely independently of any public hearing or any other action of the Tribunal. The only power the Tribunal will have in licensing matters which is not subject to severe limitation by ministerial direction is the power to determine standards in relation to programs and advertising. This is a power which both the Tribunal and its predecessor, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, has always had. The Minister is transferring no real power other than the unpleasant and unpopular responsibility for enforcing observance of licence conditions. 
Related to the retention of ministerial control and the exclusion of the public from significant areas of the Tribunal's responsibility in licensing is the new opportunity for political manipulation of the media which this legislation presents, particularly in respect of the Special Broadcasting Service. The Special Broadcasting Service as proposed in the Bill will not merely add another element to the existing national broadcasting system; it will introduce also a national broadcasting service of an entirely new character in the history of Australian broadcasting. It will lack all the qualities of political independence that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has and will be subject to direct political control. I draw the attention of the chamber to division 2 of clause 18 which sets out the functions of the service. Proposed new section 79D states: 
The functions of the Service are- 
to provide multilingual broadcasting services and, if authorized by the regulations, to provide multilingual television services; and 
to provide broadcasting and television services for such special purposes as are prescribed. 

 Senator Lajovic made much of this obligation to provide multilingual broadcasting services. I think he overstated his case with great extravagance. He failed to say, for example, that the provision of multilingual television services will depend on authorisation by regulations. 
-I thank  Senator Mulvihill.  I am sure he will. Proposed new section 79d stating that the functions of the service are to provide broadcasting and television services for such special purposes as are prescribed gives the power entirely to regulation to prescribe any further function. Again, a Minister could direct further purposes such as the broadcasting of political propaganda. I do not think there is any way in which government supporters can deny that that possibility exists in the legislation as it is drafted. The Opposition finds that possibility totally alarming. Whatever sort of government is in power we do not think that it should have the right to have its own propaganda channel through which it may direct any kind of broadcasting it sees fit to inflict on the listening public or the viewing public in the case of television. The limitation on the role of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is also very alarming. It has been brought in in a back door way. Clause 15 introduces an amendment which states: 
In complying with the requirements of sub-section ( 1 ), the Commission shall have regard to the services provided under Pan IIIA. 
In other words, the ABC will have to tailor its programming and activities to fit in with what the Special Broadcasting Service is doing. If, for example, the Government decided to direct, under Section 18 (b) that news broadcast or current affairs programs to its own liking should be broadcast, it could say to the ABC, 'You need not do so many current affairs and news broadcasts now because the Special Broadcasting Service is doing them and it is out of balance to have so much.' In this way the ABC, which has managed to retain a degree of independence would have its independence quite seriously eroded. I can think of none other than devious motives on the part of the Government for introducing this modification of the independence of the ABC. 
I notice that  Senator Missen  is looking quite - 
He certainly does not look shocked, but does look quizzical when I suggest that there are devious motives on the part of the Government for including clause 15, which erodes the independence of the ABC. I will be very interested to hear him explain what beneficial or positive motives the Government might have had. 
-I suspect that you will not,  Senator Missen,  but I am used to being disappointed. This question of political manipulation is perhaps the most serious inadequacy in the Bill. There is to be no independence for the new Special Broadcasting Service. It is to be completely tied to government control. The public will have very little opportunity to participate effectively in what goes on. The Government will be able to direct the kind of broadcasting, including multilingual, that it wants, and will have almost total control over the kind of programs that SBS would provide. The Government would be able to specify that an SBS program would be multilingual, or that it would be a news and information service; also the political orientation of the program and the social values to be promoted. 
The Bill empowers the Government to achieve all this by regulation- another very disturbing aspect and one to which we are entirely opposed -not by the introduction of legislation. Extensive and effective control of the Special Broadcasting Service could thus be exercised by a government without public consultation or debate in the Parliament. Well, we are of course accustomed to the opportunity for debate being drastically restricted by the present Government. The Bill would permit an entirely new area, that of broadcasting, to be controlled by regulation. 
There seem to be some rather pointless interjections coming from the other side of the chamber. I can understand why  Senator Chaney  would wish to distract attention from the provisions of the Bill before us. He is one who was once quite interested in civil liberties and such things as having independent public authorities. It must really be mortifying for him to see the anti-democratic legislation that the Government he supports brings before us- in the full knowledge that it has the numbers to push it through. 
To move on to the question of public participation, to which reference has so often been made by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  when there was such great controversy about the Government's interfering with the ABC and setting up a biased tribunal to inquire into self-regulation. The Minister kept assuring us that our anxiety was totally unjustified because everything would be accessible to the public; that procedures would be established whereby the ultimate expression of democracy could take place, in that the public could come and say, 'We do not like that station, that kind of broadcasting', that if enough of them said it, in a democratic way, their wishes would be observed and they would be able to bring about change. 
Despite all these assurances, what we have before us is legislation that virtually excludes the public from all participation in broadcasting, except attendance at the hearings of the tribunal. However, as I have pointed out, the approval to attend such hearings is poorly defined, and may of course be withheld from people who feel that they have a legitimate place before the tribunal. The Bill limits the right of appearance of the public before the tribunal to those who have, in the words of the legislation, an interest in the proceedings. No attempt is made to define what constitutes an interest m such proceedings. That is left to the tribunal. 
Apart from the problem of definition, the distinction between persons having an interest and persons not having an interest is doubtful in this context. Every citizen has an interest in the way in which the broadcasting system operates, yet the right of every citizen to express such interest is nowhere guaranteed in the Bill. Thus, the opportunity for public participation is limited to those who are eligible to appear before the tribunal. There is no role for the public in the formulation of policy, of standards, of guidelines for programming, or any of those things we had hoped would be included in this legislation. 
It is unfortunate, too, that the Bill has come before the Senate on the second last day of a Parliament that has been brought to a premature conclusion. It is both long and complex and most of it we believe represents bad legislation. It does not fulfil any of the undertakings given by the Government or by the Minister in respect of public broadcasting. It will be a disappointment to all those members of the community who believe in public broadcasting and who have been committed to initiatives in that field. I refer, of course, to the ethnic groups who have shown a great deal of enterprise and energy in setting up ethnic broadcasting over the old community access stations. It will be a disappointment to citizens who have taken the initiative to become involved in other kinds of community access programs. It will be a disappointment to everyone who believes that in a democracy all citizens should have access to the air waves. 
For these and other reasons that I have outlined, I totally oppose the legislation and support  Senator Button's  amendment that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 November 1977: 
What actions have been taken by the Department of Social Security to facilitate the settlement of Lebanese migrants who have come to Australia to escape the civil war in Lebanon. 
Will the Minister give a breakdown of assistance showing: (a) how may of these migrants have received financial aid; (b) how many are still receiving government assistance; and (c) how much money has been spent so far by the Department of Social Security in assisting these people. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
Has the Australian Government made an official decision to participate in the International Year of the Child. 
Does the Australian Government intend to make a financial contribution to the limited Nations Secretariat for the International Year of the Child. 
What steps have been taken to set up an International Year of the Child Commission in Australia. 
What plans does the Australian Government have for the celebration of International Year of the Child in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister completed his review of the decision to replace the Teacher-in-Charge of the Manuka and Civic Occasional Care Centres with a Grade S public servant. 
What is the outcome of the review. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 2 November 1 977: 
How many Lebanese have been accepted as migrants to Australia since the commencement of the war in Lebanon. 
What action is being taken by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to facilitate the settlement of these migrants in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) Do State Departments of Education allow teachers of foreign languages leave without pay to travel overseas for the purpose of improving their knowledge in the subject. 
) Is such leave now being refused in government schools in the Australian Capital Territory on the grounds of financial stringency; if so, in what way would such leave impose additional costs on the Government. 
3 ) If this is not the reason, will the Minister have the matter investigated immediately with a view to permitting leave of absence to teachers to travel overseas. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
What was the nature of the advice received by the Minister from the Department of Education regarding the proposed removal of teachers from Occasional Care Centres in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) How many Federal Government funded Child Care Centres currently exist throughout Australia. 
How many places do such Centres currently provide. 
What proportion of places in Government funded Child Care Centres are currently vacant. 
What are the current criteria, applied by the Office of Child Care, in assessing the eligibility of new child care proposals for Federal funding. 
What surveys of geographical and socio-economic need for child care facilities are currently being conducted by the Office of Child Care. 
How many proposals for new child care facilities have  been received by the Minister since January 1 976.  ' (7) How many new proposals have been funded by the Minister since January 1976. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refers to the appearance of the name of the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal,  Mr Bruce  Gyngell, in Press advertisements which extol the virtues of an American credit card company. I ask the Minister: Firstly, did  Mr Gyngell  seek and receive the agreement of the Minister and of the other members of the Tribunal to lend the Tribunal's name to the advertisements? Secondly, did  Mr Gyngell  receive payment of any kind for participating in the advertising campaign? Finally, will the Minister tell the parliament whether he thinks it is appropriate for a Commonwealth statutory office holder to use his position to promote credit cards? 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That it is necessary for the Commonwealth Government to renew for a further term of at least 3 years the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974-77, renewed for one year expiring on the 30 June 1978. 
The demand for dwellings has not slackened as the waiting list (all States) of 12,060 single and 4,120 couples as at the 30 June 1977, showeth. 
Your petitioners respectfully draw the attention of the Commonwealth Government to the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Aged Persons' Housing 1975 under the Chairmanship of the Rev. K. Seaman (now Governor of South Australia) which recommended additional funds to State housing authorities to meet the demand for low-rental accommodation in the proportion of $4 for $1 with the proviso that the States do not reduce their existing expenditure and 
That the Act include married pensioners eligible for supplementary assistance and migrants as specified by the Seaman Report and that particular consideration be paid to the special needs and requirements of the prospective tenants in the location and design of such dwellings. 
Furthermore, your petitioners desire to draw the Government's attention to the hardship of many pensioner home owners caused by the high cost of maintenance. 
The Social Security Annual Report 1976-77 shows that 24.6 per cent, or 283,000 home owning pensioners, have a weekly income in excess of the pension of less than $6 per week. 
Your petitioners strongly urge the Commonwealth Government to establish a fund whereby loans can be made to means tested pensioners for the purpose of effecting necessary maintenance to their homes. Such a loan to be at minimal interest rates sufficient to cover administrative costs and to be repaid by the estate upon the death of a single pensioner before probate or upon the death of the surviving spouse in the case of married pensioners or where two pensioners jointly own the dwelling. Administration to be carried out by local government bodies. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As this petition exceeds 250 words in length I do not propose to ask that it be read. 
Petition received. 
I rise at short notice to participate in this debate, but I welcome the opportunity to do so. The theme of the Governor-General's address in this place a couple of days ago was quite clear: It was a theme along the lines of promising respect for and re-inforcement of individual liberties in our society. Phrases like 'individual freedom' were used constantly throughout the address by the Governor-General. In response to the Governor-General's Speech I think another theme has emerged in this place; that is, the theme of the disparity between words and actions and in particular the disparity between the words of a government and the actions a government is prepared to take. 
It seems to me that those two themes are in a very telling juxtaposition to each other. We have a government which talks at great length about individual rights and freedoms, about increasing the freedom of choice, about putting money into people 's pockets and enabling people the choice of how that money is spent and so forth. We heard a lot of that for two years and then we heard it again in the Governor-General's address in this place a couple of days ago. However, several speakers in the Address-in-Reply debate- not all those speakers have been from this side of the chamber- have pointed out that there is a very serious and distressing disparity between what a Fraser Government is prepared to say about individual freedoms and liberties and what it in fact does on this matter. 

 Senator Haines, who made her maiden speech in this place last night, is to be congratulated on stressing that very point. I think she took two very telling examples of the Fraser Government failing to act in the way in which it has spoken. 
She took the example of Australian women and the example of the Australian Aborigines. She very tellingly described the situation which develops when a government says that it is going to act and in fact fails to act but adopts the misleading practice of establishing advisory committees, consultative councils and such like. I think you, Madam Acting  Deputy President,  in your words to the chamber this afternoon described the unsatisfactory nature of setting up a series of committees, councils and bodies which talk, represent no one and get nothing done. I believe that that has been characteristic of the Government in the past. Unfortunately, there is no reason to believe that the Government is going to change in this respect.  Senator Bonner,  who has just resumed his seat, a person of much greater personal experience in the matter than any other honourable senator, described more passionately than perhaps any honourable senator on this side of the chamber could do the situation which still prevails today with regard to the Aboriginal people. This situation is still an international scandal and is still a disgrace to this country.  (Quorum formed). 
Before the quorum was called I was pointing out to the Senate that during the AddressinReply debate speakers representing various political views have developed a theme, namely, the disparity between what the Government is prepared to say about individual freedoms and rights and what the Government is prepared to do.  Senator Bonner  made the point with great passion and from the heart and from personal experience that despite what has been said and, indeed, despite legislation which has been passed in this chamber with respect to land rights for Aborigines, those land rights have not yet been implemented. The Aboriginal people are still living in disgraceful poverty and ill-health and the very rights which we assumed we guaranteed by passing the land rights legislation are under attack by representatives of the mining industry, more particularly the multinational mining interests which are so anxious to use Australia as a quarry regardless of the wishes of the Aboriginal people. 
I think it is very disturbing for those of us engaged in parliamentary life to realise that we can come here representing our electorates and our States and see legislation with which all honourable senators agree- I think that was the case with the Aboriginal land rights legislationpassed through the Parliament yet other more powerful institutions than the Parliament, which are not answerable to anybody and certainly not to anybody in Australia, are able to deflect and distort our wishes as expressed in the land rights legislation. I congratulate  Senator Bonner,  as a supporter of the Government, for rising and reminding the Government that the land rights legislation has not been implemented. I hope his words today will stiffen the resolve of Government members to resist the lobbying of the Mining Industries Forum and other selfinterested bodies and to persist with the good intentions which they all expressed at the time when the land rights legislation was introduced. 
Nonetheless, it is the case that we have a new Parliament which is led by a Liberal-National Country Party coalition whose record with regard to action in the previous Parliament was a very poor one. The record of that Government was characterised by the establishment of committees such as the Women's Welfare Issues Consultative Committee, the Women's Advisory Committee which still has not been established but which we are told will be established one of these days and various other committees while, at the same time, the Government is cutting back on programs which were giving assistance to people in need. 
I instance the legal aid program which has been cut back, dreadfully fragmented and now broken up legally into a series of State and territorial commissions. That is a great comedown for a scheme known as the Australian Legal Aid Office which was introduced at the time of the Australian Labor Party Government. We are aware of cutbacks in areas such as child care, women's refuges, Aboriginal health programs and so on. In my view it is worse than useless- it is hypocritical- to talk about freedoms and about ensuring and guaranteeing the right of free choice and so forth if the Government is not prepared to put its money where its mouth is. If a government is not prepared to establish programs to make resources available for people to exercise their freedoms, those freedoms on paper are useless. 
While I am on this theme of individual freedoms and the importance of basic democratic rights to us in the Parliament I shall mention briefly the situation of broadcasting in this country. I express briefly- I shall do it at great length at another time- my distress at the intrusion into the independence of the national broadcasting system in Australia, that is, the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Since the Fraser Government was first elected in December 1975 it has engaged in a continual assault on the independence of the ABC. That assault has taken different forms and it has waxed and waned. But it has never ceased. First of all there were the savage cutbacks in two successive Budgets which reduced in a very real and concrete way the ability of the ABC to carry out its various and very important statutory functions. But more insidious than that has been the apparent political interference in programming and in the content of various ABC current affairs programs. The disappearance of a well-known  This Day Tonight  reporter from that program after the last election is very distressing. I hold no brief for that reporter or for any individual reporter who may or may not carry out his or her duties with professional integrity. What I do find distressing is that the only national current affairs program which gave daily coverage of the election campaign found itself short of its main reporter at the end of the campaign. 
I am investigating this matter. It has been alleged that that reporter was sacked because he dared to question the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about matters of national importance during the campaign. I do not yet have adequate evidence to support that charge. I expect that I will be in a position to have that evidence and to produce it in this place at a later stage. I think that all persons who like to talk about the right of free speech, and the importance of an independent, objective broadcasting service in a democratic system should be disturbed by the changes which have taken place to the program  This Day Tonight  in the last two years. It seems now that no controversial subjects can be examined by the Australian Broadcasting Commission unless they have the blessing of the current Government. That is extraordinarily distressing. Similarly, one of the few radio programs on the ABC which engages in current affairs at a more than superficial level is the program  Broadband.  Again, it is distressing to find an unscheduled change in the  Broadband  programming to the effect that the time allocated to  Broadband  has been suddenly cut in half, apparently as a result of submissions from management, and certainly with the agreement of the Commissioners. I do not question that. But it seems to me that the opportunity for Australians to hear views other than those of the current Government on the national broadcasting system have been radically reduced. That fact stands in alarming contrast to the expressions of individual freedoms and so forth with which the Governor-General 's Speech was cluttered. 
Of course, the basic freedom which we require in a society such as ours is the freedom to earn a living, the freedom to go out and get a job and to have income to dispose of as one wills. Persons who have no income are dependent persons. 
They have no freedom of choice whatsoever. They may rely on a pension or on the goodwill of a spouse. If they do not have their own income they do not have a freedom of choice in this basic way. The right to earn a living seems to me to be probably the basic right in a political and economic system such as we have in Australia. Yet that right is now being denied to many thousands of Australians. 
The national unemployment figures are quite disgraceful. We have a measured and reported unemployment rate of something like 7.2 per cent for the month of January. Everyone in this place is aware that the real unemployment figures are much larger than those which are measured because of the various inadequacies in the measuring devices used by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and because of the various inadequacies in the data collecting procedures of the Commonwealth Employment Service. It was claimed in another place by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  that the real unemployment figure in Australia is about 9 per cent. Certainly, in my experience, that is by no means an exaggerated claim. Of course, that 9 per cent unemployment rate nationally is not evenly spread throughout the work force. Even if it were evenly spread throughout the work force it would be a cause for grave concern. But the fact of the matter is that it is most unevenly spread so that particular sectors of the potential work force suffer a much higher unemployment rate than the 9 per cent or the measured 7.2 per cent. For example, migrant workers are hit much harder in the current unemployment situation than nonmigrant workers. When we look at junior girl migrant workers we find a measured unemployment rate of 19.6 per cent. That is a matter of national scandal. I raise this matter at this stage of the debate because it seems to me that the Government has taken no specific measure to deal with the pockets of severe unemploymment. There is no specific program of assistance to the 19.6 per cent of unemployed migrant female juniors. There are a number of bandaid schemes to help the unemployed while away their time of unemployment or even to get taken on for a short time by an employer who is willing to participate in various schemes. But there is no specific employment, training or work oriented scheme aimed at the specific needs of those groups suffering the highest rate of unemployment. That is a lamentable failure on the part of the Government. This situation is one which I shall continue to criticise in this place in the hope that, finally, something will be done about it. 
Here in the Australian Capital Territory, of course, we have a very clear example of the various failures of the Government to provide that freedom of choice which comes from having a job. There has been a steady contraction of job opportunities in all sectors since the Fraser Government was first elected. Subsequent to the imposition of staff ceilings, there has been a serious contraction of employment opportunities in the public sector. I must say in passing that the Government's attempt to come to terms with the inefficiency which we all admit to be a characteristic of the public sector is really quite astounding. Its claim that there was inefficiency, perhaps under-employment, in some areas of the bureaucracy, is not one that we would bother to dispute. But instead of setting about a proper streamlining of the public sector, a proper workeffectiveness program for the public sector, it simply adopted the staff ceilings approach. Every Public Service department was ordered to reduce its staff ceiling by a certain number. Those reductions could come about by resignations, deaths or retirements, so there was no plan for the proper management of resources in the public sector- simply this crude trimming back of the numbers. 
This has led, as honourable senators know, to incredible inefficiency in some sectors. There has been chaos in sectors dealing with the unemployed, and the recent industrial dispute that the Government has on its hands is, I would say, of its own making. By imposing staff ceilings, by reducing the resources available to the Department of Social Services and the Commonwealth Employment Service offices to deal with the problems of unemployment, it has brought about the atmosphere in which the current industrial dispute is taking place. By imposing such ceilings on government departments, many of which are of course here in the Australian Capital Territory, the Government has virtually said to many school leavers, to many graduates of tertiary institutions, to many women seeking to rejoin the work force in the Australian Capital Territory: 'There are no jobs for you'. Previously, qualified people could expect to enter the Public Service and do a useful job, but now the doors have been shut in their faces. There has been only the smallest trickle of new entrants to the Public Service. This is a Public Service town. The Commonwealth is its largest employer, but the Commonwealth has shut the door of job opportunity in the faces of many thousands of Australian Capital Territory citizens. 
The attack on the public sector is not the only way in which the Government has reduced job opportunities in the Australian Capital Territory. By condemning the public sector in such an irrational, prejudicial and unsystematic way it has also wreaked tremendous havoc amongst the various industries and activities that make up the private sector. For example, the activity in the building and construction industry has been reduced to something like one-tenth of that which obtained previously. That has meant that builders, builders' labourers, trades-people, surveyors, draughtsmen, architects, engineers and so forth- all those who earn their living in the building and construction industry- have been severely affected. Unemployment there is extraordinarily high. Also, many training opportunities have been lost because when the work is not there, the opportunity for apprentices to be taken on and trained is not there either. 
Also, the retail industry of the Australian Capital Territory has suffered terribly. If people are not building houses, have not money to spend, are not engaging in the sort of activity that they did in the time of growth in the Australian Capital Territory, they are not going out to buy things from the shops. Retailing has been extraordinarily damaged by the policies of the Fraser Government. Moreover, since there was nothing in the Speech of the Governor-General in this place on Tuesday to suggest that the Government had learned any lessons with respect to the situation in the Australian Capital Territory, one cannot expect that the position will improve. 
Let me describe now in some specific detail the unemployment situation in the Australian Capital Territory and let honourable senators judge for themselves whether or not the freedom to work really exists here in this Commonwealth territory. There are now more than 7,000 unemployed persons in the Australian Capital Territory. There are this month nearly 1,000 more unemployed persons than there were last month. In January 1977 there was a decrease in the registered unemployed of nearly 200. The number of vacancies notified in January was 942, so we currently have a situation where there are 942 jobs for more than 7,000 people. I am aware that that disparity is probably reproduced in every town and city of this country, but those statistics should be borne in mind by people who like still, despite all this, to go about and say that the unemployed have only themselves to blame, that they are not seeking jobs. No matter how assiduous those 7,000 people might be in their pursuit of employment, only 942 of them will find it. There are seven people competing for every job that is available, so 6,000 of them are condemned to continuing harrassment by a Government which will not recognise its own responsibility to create employment, and is reluctant to recognise its responsibility to pay unemployment benefits to those who, through no fault of their own, are deprived of work. 
Some 335 of those vacancies in the Australian Capital Territory are in the retail industry, an area which, because of the Government's attack on the public sector, has shown a dramatic decline. Again, the opportunity of persons to earn their living in the private sector has been significantly reduced by the actions of a government which likes to speak of freedom of choice and extol the virtues of the free enterprise system. The irony, in the Australian Capital Territory, is that those persons who had been working in the free enterprise system, who had had their own businesses, are those who have been most badly affected by the actions of this free enterprise Government. 
Some 3,237 juniors in the Australian Capital Territory are looking for work, but only 154 job vacancies are registered. So, when it comes to juniors, again the unemployment situation has a very unequal effect. There are 2 1 young persons competing for every job available. Despite this situation, the Government has taken no specific steps. It speaks of a desire to have training schemes, to have a manpower policy, but as yet we have seen no evidence of their being created. There is in Australia today no manpower policy. There is no proper work training scheme. Certainly, there are a number of subsidy schemes, a number of schemes which assist employers to take on juniors. There are a number which assist unemployed persons to pay for courses, or which pay them allowances while they undertake courses, at a technical college or something of that kind. 
There are various forms, mean as they are, of financial assistance to various sectors of the unemployed, but there is no training scheme whereby people can learn a skill that they can be sure will be marketable. That, in my view, is what a training scheme is; it is not just a subsidy scheme for making available an allowance of a few dollars a week. A training scheme should impart marketable skills to those who genuinely seek them. We still do not have any such scheme in Australia. 
We are, of course, awaiting with interest the result of the Williams inquiry. Perhaps, when that is presented, we may expect to see such a scheme develop. Of course it will not be until the 
Government first develops a manpower policy; until the Government confronts seriously the reasons why we have such extensive unemployment in this country; until this Government stops pursuing its only, and single strategy with regard to unemployment which, as we all know, is the reduction of inflation. Until then we will not have a training scheme and we will not have a manpower policy. It is clear to the unbiased observer- and even to some who are biased that the manufacturing, primary industry and mining sectors of this country are out of kilter with each other. There were years and years of ad hoc development of the manufacturing sector, in which we engaged- doubtless in the name of free enterprise- in industries in which we should never have engaged. There were years and years during which the Liberal-Country Party coalition government knew that the European Economic Community would soon become a reality and would have a disastrous effect on our primary industry, yet nothing was done to create new markets for our products. 
For a considerable time now, the Government ought to have been aware of the effect of the mining boom on the other sectors of the Australian economy, yet there has been no planning, forethought or manpower policy, no attempt to balance our resources, no attempt to ensure that if one sector, such as manufacturing, lost its viability, there would be other areas of productive activity into which workers and investors could transfer their resources. I think this Government is to be soundly condemned for its failure to confront realistically the basis of unemployment in this country, its failure to realise the need for a restructuring of the economy and its failure to implement a manpower policy on which training schemes can be developed. 
I do not believe that any unemployed school leaver should be on the dole. My view is that if a person leaves school and cannot find employment he should be trained for employment. When the unemployment benefit was first introduced it was supposed to be a short term measure to tide people over for a few weeks or a few days when they moved from one job to another. It is certainly not adequate to cope with the present situation. What is called for is something similar to what is happening in Sweden, Austria and various countries which have a long history of social democratic government. Unemployed persons who want employment and do not have marketable skills are given marketable skills. I am afraid that message has not yet got through to the Government whose only response to the unemployed youth is to send out more quasi police agents to try to get a few of them off the dole. That is not good enough. 
In concluding my remarks I repeat that in this chamber there has already been serious criticism of the Government for failing to act. In many instances what it has said has been acceptable. What it has done has not been acceptable. I hope that in the ensuing months those persons not on this side of the chamber who are aware of the disparity between words and actions of the Government will take steps to ensure that at least some of the sentiments expressed in the Governor-General 's Speech are acted upon and do not merely remain words on paper as did the Speech we heard 2 years ago. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refers to the Government's inquiry into the possible introduction of a national communications satellite system in Australia. In view of the serious dangers to the Australian public of such a system should it come under monopoly control, will the Minister tell the Senate what steps have been taken to ensure that all interested members of the public will have an opportunity to put their views to the inquiry? Will the Minister say whether the Government intends to table the findings of the inquiry so that all Australians may consider for themselves the arguments for and against such a system before any decision is taken regarding the introduction of a national broadcasting satellite? 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. He will be aware that the Commonwealth Law Reform Commission, under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Kirby, has been considering reform of the law of defamation and the desirability of introducing legislation specifically creating legally enforceable rights to privacy in certain areas of human behaviour. He will also be aware that the Press Council and the Press generally have expressed their opposition to any legislation designed to protect privacy. Does the Attorney-General agree that recent attempts by sections of the Press to give a public airing to rumours touching the personal life of the Governor of South Australia underline the pressing necessity of legislation protecting the privacy of the individual? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of the considerable number of amendments recently made to the Broadcasting and Television Act, will the Minister make available to members of the House of Representatives and senators a consolidated update of the Act? Is it a fact that such a version has been produced in the Postal and Telecommunications Department and has been made available to industry bodies such as the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations and the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters? Does the Minister agree that the Government should be as willing to assist and inform members of parliament as it is to assist the industry groups? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the Australian Government cut out the grant to the Canberra Childbirth Education Association of $500? Is the Minister aware that the Association has had to raise its fees for this valuable service following the removal of the grant and that as a consequence some women will be deprived of this service? 
I move: 
That the Senate give consideration to the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships which specifically suggest ways of restructuring the laws relating to rape with a view to reforming existing legislation. 
I bring this matter before the Senate this evening because I am anxious that the very distinguished and sincere work of the royal commissioners on the inquiry into human relationships should receive proper attention in the national Parliament. Honourable senators will recall that the report of the royal commission which has been awaited for a long time by many people throughout Australia first came into public view when the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, chose to bring it into the election campaign in November last year in a misleading, distorted and irresponsible way. Honourable senators will remember that he was condemned by all sections of the Press, by the commissioners themselves and by many people who had made submissions to the royal commission, for his absolutely cynical use of the report during the election campaign. However, after the widespread criticism of the Prime Minister he tabled the report in the House of Representatives a few days ago. It was then brushed aside and there was not proper debate on it. Following a question asked by my colleague in another place,  Mr Lionel  Bowen, the Prime Minister stated the Government's intention with respect to the report. On 1 March 1978 he said: 
A considerable part of the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships refers to matters that would need to be implemented by the States if they were to be put into practical effect throughout the great bulk of Australia. I have already written to Premiers asking them for their views on the report and have indicated that we would want to be significantly influenced by the views of the States in relation to our examination of the report. The report has been published. I would expect considerable community debate on it. I have no doubt that at an appropriate time it would be proper and necessary for a significant debate on the report to be held in this Parliament. The Government would want to be in a position of being able to assess the totality of community views and other views which would be put to it before coming to a firm decision on specific aspects of the report. 
From the reply of the Prime Minister I am not confident that the Parliament and the community will have adequate opportunity to give proper consideration to the numerous recommendations of the report. The Prime Minister says that he has written to the Premiers seeking their views, but I wonder what that means when the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  felt free to express their hostile and negative views without even having read the report during the election campaign. I also question the sincerity of the Prime Minister following his-- 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Senior members of the staff of the Australian Broadcasting Commission are in dispute over the use of outside contract labour by the ABC in a current ABC television series called 'The Marcia Hines Show'. In respect of this series, can the Minister inform the Senate how many instances there have been of the use of contract labour for work that could have been done by ABC employees and, secondly, what has been the cost to the Commission of the use of this contract labour? 
The Senate is debating the Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill 1978. I support the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Robertson.  I think there is obviously a need to clarify what this legislation is about and a need to clarify the nature of the reservations expressed by the Opposition in the amendment moved by  Senator Robertson. Senator Knight,  who spoke earlier in this debate, suggested that the Opposition was misled as to the nature of the legislation. He certainly represented our reservations in a very misleading way. There is no question that we in the Opposition accept the principle that public authorities should be liable to taxation. As  Senator Knight  pointed out, in 1974 the Canberra Commercial Development Authority was set up by the Labor Government and the principle that this Authority would eventually be subject to Commonwealth tax was known, recognised and understood at that time. That principle is not in dispute and it is not the cause of our reservations about the legislation. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  has seen fit to put out a Press release clarifying the nature of the legislation. I suppose I can do no better than to quote it because the nature of the legislation is stated very clearly. He said: 
The Bill would, amongst other things: 
Make the Canberra Commercial Development Authority, the Canberra Showground Trust and . the Poker Machine Licensing Board subject to the taxation laws of the Commonwealth; 
Revoke the Canberra Commercial Development Authority's exemptions from income and sales taxes. 

 Mr Ellicott said however it was important to realise that the Income Tax Assessment Act provides for the exemption from taxation of the revenue to a public authority constituted under any Commonwealth or State Act or under any law in force in a Territory. The Poker Machine Licensing Board and the Canberra Showground Trust would continue to be exempt from income tax notwithstanding the enactment of the Bill in its present form. The Office of the Commissioner for Taxation had confirmed this. . 
The Bill in its present form would not change the current status of the Poker Machine Licensing Board or the Canberra Showground Trust with respect to liability for sales tax. 

 Mr Ellicott said the position of the Canberra Commercial Development Authority with respect to income tax and sales tax would be altered. 
The Opposition is quite clear that that is the purpose of the legislation. It is also quite clear that it endorses the principle - 

 - Senator Knight is seeking to interject and score points from my colleague in another place. There is no lack of clarity in the position of the Opposition and I should like to go on to explain our reservations. Our reservations relate to the timing of the introduction of the Bill, the timing of the revocation of the exemption. It is clear from the statement the Minister has just made publicly and from which I have just quoted that it is proper and legal for a commercial development authority to have an exemption from income tax. It is proper for that to happen and up until now the Canberra Commercial Development Authority has had such an exemption. The purpose of this Bill is to revoke that exemption. 
The Opposition is saying in very clear terms that it is not opposed to that happening but it is opposed to it happening at the present time. We are opposed to it happening at the present time because of the complete chaos in which the Australian Capital Territory finds itself with regard to financial arrangements, the devolution of powers from the Federal Parliament to the Legislative Assembly, and so forth.  Senator 
Knight will be as aware, as I or any person in the Australian Capital Territory of that state of complete chaos. The Opposition is saying that the provisions in this Bill affecting the liability of the Canberra Commercial Development Authority for income tax and sales tax should be postponed until such time as proper financial arrangements are worked out for the Australian Capital Territory. That is the content of the amendment  Senator Robertson  has just moved and that is the case that I shall now argue. 
It seems to the Opposition that the Federal Government is treating the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory with absolute contempt. The Territory has been subjected to a number of extraordinarily harsh policies with respect to employment, funding, rates charges, rents on government accommodation, and so forth, and none of those measures has come about as a result of a decision of the locally elected body.  Senator Knight  was anxious to point to the statements of various Labor members of the local Legislative Assembly. What he did not add was that the resolution from the Legislative Assembly condemning the introduction of the legislation at this time was a unanimous resolution. It was supported also by Liberal members of the Legislative Assembly. 

 - Senator Knight wishes to return to 1974 and to the question of whether or not there was consultation. At that time I was a member of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly and I recall that there was no shock or surprise at the decision of the Government to set up the Authority on the terms on which it was set up. What we are concerned about now is that the members of the Legislative Assembly have been abused by the Fraser Government in that their term of office has expired and has been extended indefinitely but no proper measures for devolution have been taken. Members of the Assembly have been working for about four years now in the interests of the community- working without proper resources, without proper payment and without any timely resolution of their difficult situation. Those people have not been consulted about the introduction of this Bill. They have unanimously condemned the Minister and the Government for failing to consult with them and I believe that the unanimity of the resolution expresses a widespread feeling within the Australian Capital Territory. 
The citizens of the Territory have been pushed beyond the limits of endurance with regard to what is to happen to the Australian Capital Territory.  Senator Robertson  raised the question, I believe very pertinently, of where the Northern Territory fits into the Fraser Government's federalism proposal. On several occasions in this place I have asked where the Australian Capital Territory fits into the Federal Government's federalism policy. I have received no answer; there is still no answer. All we have is a Bill before the Senate which will impose taxation on the Commercial Development Authority. 
For the benefit of those honourable senators who are not familiar with the existing circumstances of retailing in Canberra, I should like to point out that to talk of the Canberra Commercial Development Authority being in direct competition with the Woden Plaza shopping mall or with the Civic shopping centre is really quite misleading. Both of those shopping centres exist in well-developed well-established residential and work areas. As far as I can see, they are under no threat from the Belconnen Authority, which is in another valley in an area that is very short of all facilities, including major shopping facilities. The argument that we must instantly impose a taxation responsibility otherwise the Canberra Commercial Development Authority will have an unfair advantage over the other established commercial retailing bodies is quite misleading. 
What the Opposition is asking for, what I have continued to ask for since I have been in this place, is a decision by the Federal Government on the future of the Australian Capital Territory. When  Mr Staley  was Minister for the Capital Territory, after about 1 8 months in the portfolio he finally came up with a rather lengthy draft of proposals for devolution of powers to a locally elected body. There were some very interesting proposals in that document, many of which I would agree with. However, there was a notable omission from the document, a very grave and serious omission and one which bears directly on the reservations we are expressing about the legislation before the Senate this evening. What was omitted from the proposals was the matter of specific financial arrangements. Whilst all sorts of areas were nominated where locally elected people could make decisions- education, health, public transport and so on- no suggestion was made as to who should pay for what. 
Many honourable senators, and I confess even some of my own colleagues, labour under certain misapprehensions about the Australian Capital Territory and the charges that are levied on the people here. Many honourable senators are under the impression that the citizens of the Territory are advantaged by comparison with citizens in the States of Australia. The fact of the matter is that citizens of the Territory, like any other citizens, pay taxes. They pay rates, which have increased at a very rapid rate since the Fraser Government came to office. They pay the normal kinds of service charges. I think it can be argued that the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory do not get a great deal in return for what they pay. I instance my own district in the Territory, the Belconnen Valley, where I have lived for several years. The Belconnen Valley has a population of about 70,000 to 80,000 people. It has one swimming pool, no cinema and no other extensive community facilities. I would be very surprised if there were any municipality in Australia with a population of that size which did not have more community facilities. It is unfortunately the case that when honourable senators and members in another place come to Canberra and survey the attractive vista of Anzac Parade and the War Memorial- they may even visit the National Library, which is a very fine institution indeed- they form the opinion that Canberra citizens are somehow very advantaged. If they were to take the time and trouble to go into the outer suburbs, particularly the newer suburbs of Canberra, to see just what is lacking in the way of ordinary conventional community facilities they might have a different view. They might come to realise the urgency of the question of the financial arrangements for the future of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Before any more time passes this situation needs to be resolved. As I have said, a number of charges have been imposed on the citizens of the Territory in the last  2h  years that have not been imposed by anybody elected by the citizens but by the Minister, first  Mr Staley  and now  Mr Ellicott.  Decisions affecting wage earners and pensioners have been made with regard to rates, housing, the fees charged for drivers' licences, and so on. Those charges have been increased rapidly because of the stated policy of the Minister to make Canberra pay its way. We do not even know what that means. We do not even know to what extent Canberra citizens pay their way and contribute to the welfare of their fellow citizens throughout Australia because no proper territorial accounting system has yet been devised and implemented. 
During this period of indecision many very grave situations have developed. For example, during the last 10 years Canberra had the fastest growing work force in the country. Now, Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory- this so-called citadel of privilege- has the fastest growing unemployment rate in Australia. In December 1977 the national average increase in unemployment was 13.2 per cent. That is a scandalous increase. But in Canberra, the national capital, the increase in the unemployment rate was 1 8.7 per cent, the highest in Australia. The Commonwealth Employment Service figures for January of this year show that 7,114 persons were registered as unemployed in the Australian Capital Territory and that 46 per cent of those unemployed people were under 2 1 years of age. At the end of January this year, 7,000 people were chasing 680 jobs. That is more than seven people for each job available. There were 20 juniors chasing every one job available. 
The Public Service has been subjected to harsh, irrational and, I would say, extremely damaging cutbacks by way of the staff ceilings policy. Of course, this has contributed to the massive unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory. It has led also to a massive decrease in services available to the public. For example, there is only one person dealing with the emergency housing scheme in the Australian Capital Territory. This has meant that families and individuals in need of emergency housing must wait for three weeks before they can obtain an interview, let alone a house. The emergency housing scheme is just what it says it is. It is a way of providing houses, for example, to families who have been evicted from their previous accommodation. If people are evicted, they must wait three weeks before they can even obtain an interview with the emergency housing section in the Housing Branch of the Department of the Capital Territory because of the imposition of staff ceilings. 
I can cite similar cases in other areas. Before the election last year the new Woden Valley public library was opened with much fanfare and bombast. I seem to recall that it was my colleague on the other side of the Senate chamber,  Senator Knight,  who actually officiated at the opening ceremony of this very beautiful library in the Woden Valley. It was the first such facility to be provided for the very populous Woden Valley area. It has a population of 70,000 to 80,000 people. Under the Public Service staff ceiling policy implemented by the Government of which  Senator Knight  is a supporter, the Woden Valley library cannot operate a full service to the public. It is operating at half its capacity. There is complete inefficiency and failure to fulfil the undertakings given during the election campaign. Again, this is due to the staff ceilings policy. 
The Kippax library in the Belconnen Valleythat area which is so lacking in public facilities which I have just described- was supposed to open before last Christmas. It is still not open. If the staff ceilings policy is still in effect when it is opened, this will mean that the Kippax library will not be able to provide proper services to the public. Another example is baby health centres in the Australian Capital Territory. Surely this is a service for which proper resources could be found by any government with a sense of responsibility. Two baby health centres in Canberraone at Holt and one at Melba- have closed because of a want of properly qualified staff. The Government has failed to ensure that adequately qualified staff are available to look after babies in our community. 
The Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority also has suffered very badly from the staff ceilings policy. It was to provide a new, innovative, progressive, autonomous education system. But it is staggering along experiencing constant complaints from teachers, parents and students about inefficiency. It simply cannot perform its proper function with a skeleton staff. There are many other examples in the education area where Government cutbacks are imposing hardships on students. One of the hardships imposed on the parents of students has been the increase in school fees. At the Copeland College in the Australian Capital Territory a fee of $80 a year is charged. It is virtually a compulsory fee, despite the fact that the state education system, the government education system, is supposed to be free. 
In housing, the Government is embarking on what can properly and not at all sensationally be described as a rack-renting policy to gather its revenue. Last year the Government increased the rents charged on all government houses and flats by as much as 100 per cent. At the same time, it introduced new water and sewerage rates for its tenants. This has meant a flat rate increase for all tenants of government accommodation of $18.20 a fortnight. Of course, the increase in some rents was as great as 100 per cent. I could go on to give other examples. 
I want to return to the legislation before us and to explain why it is that the Opposition believes the introduction of this Bill is untimely. No proper financial arrangements are proposed for the Australian Capital Territory. Proposals regarding self-government have been circulated by the previous Minister for the Capital Territory; and by the new Minister for the Cap:tal Territory to give the people, in the Minister's words, an opportunity to comment. But 1 think that what the people want at this stage is not so much an opportunity to comment on rather vague and indeterminate proposals but an opportunity to have a voice in the charges which are being levied upon them and an opportunity to have some say in the expenditure of moneys that are derived by way of charges equivalent to local government charges. 
It is rather a scandalous state of affairs that when one of the local commercial radio stations conducted a radio poll with regard to selfgovernment in the Australian Capital Territory it found, not surprisingly given the way charges have increased in the Territory, that many residents are not enthusiastic about the proposal. It seems that the initiative of the local radio station has been the only thing to provoke the Minister to start circulating the rather stale proposals which, in fact, had been made public by his predecessor some months ago. It is not good enough to go on procrastinating, saying that the position is very difficult and that the Government does not know which powers it wants to devolve on the Legislative Assembly. People are being asked endlessly for their comments when, in fact, very succinct proposals have been made to various governments for many years. It is not good enough on the one hand to procrastinate about the devolution of powers, to use that period of procrastination and confusion to continue to levy more and more charges on the people of the Australian Capital Territory, to give them no voice in the disbursement of the money so raised and then to say as soon as the Canberra Commercial Development Authority is established the Government will tax it because, after all, that was the principle laid down in 1 974. 
I repeat that the Opposition is not in argument with the proposition that the commercial Authority should be liable to taxation. We have serious reservations about the timing of the introduction of this provision. We believe that it was quite unnecessary to introduce such a provision at this stage and we believe that by introducing it at this stage the Government is engaging in another procrastination exercise about the future of the Australian Capital Territory. The situation now is very grave. I have cited the unemployment and housing figures and I have instanced the rundown in services provided to the public in order to convince the Senate that the situation in the Australian Capital Territory is a grave one. It is not one that will be solved by ad hoc measures like the imposition of a taxing responsibility on a new Authority which I suppose to date has had only a few hundred customers. If the Government is serious about accepting its responsibilities in the Australian Capital Territory it will accept our amendment to postpone its consideration of this Bill for the time being and proceed to make the very serious and urgent decisions which it should make with regard to the devolution of powers and the establishment of proper financial procedures to safeguard the future of the nation's capital. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications refers to a question I asked the Minister on 22 February this year. In reply, the Minister agreed that the action of  Mr Bruce  Gyngell,  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, in appearing in a promotion campaign for an American credit card company had been improper. The Minister assured the Senate that the advertisements featuring  Mr Gyngell  and the Tribunal would be withdrawn, although he warned the Senate that this might take a few days and the advertisements might continue to appear for a few days. As three weeks have passed and the advertisements are still appearing in a national weekly, can the Minister explain to the Senate why the Government has not carried out its assurances in this matter? I would also like to know why the Minister has not given me the promised information as to whether the other members of the Broadcasting Tribunal had given their approval to  Mr Gyngell  's using the Tribunal's name in this matter. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the front page story in yesterday's  Daily Mirror  concerning fraudulent practices surrounding the payment of invalid pensions to some hundreds of members of the Greek community? Does the Minister agree that the headline of the story, which was, 'War on dole cheats- $42 m fraud', is scandalously misleading? Will the Minister confirm that the fraudulent practices under investigation concern invalid pensions and not the payment of unemployment benefits or dole cheques, as some people refer to them? Finally, will the Minister consider initiating a complaint to the Press Council regarding the damaging effect on the genuinely unemployed of this fallacious headline? 
The Opposition welcomes the statement on public broadcasting which has been made by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  It has been some years since the first initiatives in public broadcasting were taken during the period of the last Labor Government. At the outset of my remarks I pay tribute to the Minister for the Media at that time,  Dr Moss  Cass, whose imaginative exercise in licensing some experimental broadcasters under the Wireless Telegraphy Act has led to the development we have just had outlined by the Minister. The Opposition is in agreement with the three major observations which the Minister made at the beginning of his statement. It agrees with the Minister's recognition of the fact that the air waves are a limited and very valuable public resource. It agrees that there is a need for government involvement as the ultimate arbiter in relation to the use and development of that resource. It also agrees with the need for the development of a philosophy on broadcasting in Australia. 
This is the first such statement that we have had from the Government, but the Minister has suggested that it is the first in a series of Government statements on philosophy in broadcasting. We can only say that although such statements on philosophy are overdue, we welcome them. 
The Opposition has no quarrel with the basic philosophical statement made by the Minister. Some aspects of it are most acceptable, and in this regard I would particularly like to comment on the development of guidelines for public broadcasters. In general the Opposition would not quarrel with the guidelines set out by the Minister. We note that the formulation and evolution of the guidelines for public broadcasters has been an exercise in which there has been an admirable degree of public participation. We note also the work of the community organisation known as the Public Broadcasting Association of Australia which has worked very closely with the Government in the modification and development of guidelines to the point where these guidelines have been presented to Parliament. 
Having made those welcoming comments I must go on to say that some problems with regard to public broadcasting are still unsolved. There are still some serious matters about which the Opposition and the community generally require a great deal more information from the Government. The Minister referred in his statement to the recent amendment to the Broadcasting and Television Act which passed through this place in December last year and he pointed out that that amendment entrusted the Minister with responsibility for the planning and development of broadcasting generally. At that time the Opposition expressed, and I express again on its behalf, its serious reservations about the vesting in the Minister of these extensive powers in respect of the planning and development of broadcasting. I make clear that we welcome any development of a co-ordinated and planned broadcasting policy. We agree that the development of broadcasting in Australia has been ad hoc and consequently unsuitable and in some areas damage has been done which will not be remedied by either the proposals before us or any legislation which has been foreshadowed. Nevertheless, we agree that there must be co-ordinated planning of broadcasting but we have reservations about entrusting those powers directly to the Minister as the amendment to the Broadcasting and Television Act in December did. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner, I was making some comments on the statement brought down by the Minister for Education, on behalf of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  relating to the Government's intentions for the development of public broadcasting in Australia. I said on behalf of the Opposition that the Opposition was pleased in general with the content of the statement that the Minister brought down this evening. 
I refer now to some of the factors which the Minister has enumerated as being relevant factors in a philosophy of public broadcasting. The Opposition finds no argument with the first factor which the Minister enumerated. He spoke of the importance to the public of information, freedom of expression and so on. In fact the Minister even said that freedom of expression is crucial. The Opposition concurs with that sentiment. Indeed it is one for which we have had to fight from time to time in this place. I should say by way of comment that the Opposition, and I think the general community also, has cause from time to time to question the credibility of the Government when it speaks of the importance of freedom of expression in broadcasting. There were some unfortunate episodes in the recent past when it appeared that the Government was not adhering to the principle of freedom of expression in broadcasting. Indeed, there were some episodes, to which I have referred previously, which appeared to amount to political interference, particularly with regard to our national broadcasting service. So when the Minister and the Government express as their first priority with regard to a public broadcasting service the sentiment of freedom of expression, we hope that they are genuine in that sentiment. Of course, if they are, we thoroughly support them. 
The second factor that the Minister enumerated is that the all-pervasive medium of communication is a valuable national resource. Again the Opposition concurs with this sentiment. It is one which we have often expressed ourselves. In commenting on that particular claim by the Government, I would say that although it is a valuable national resource it has not always been treated by the Government as primarily a national resource. We in the Opposition and members of the community have often had cause to criticise standards, lack of regulation with respect to content in advertising, and things of that kind which have eroded the value of the broadcasting media as a national resource. Again we express the wish that this will not happen in respect of the public broadcasting service. 
The third principle that the Minister enunciated is again one of which we thoroughly approve; that is, that there must be a final regulatory authority responsible for decisions on matters affecting allocation and utilisation of broadcasting. We concur with that but we must say that the Government often has demonstrated a serious reluctance to act as a regulating authority in these matters. We hope that this will not be the case with this new service which is envisaged in the statement made by the Minister. 
The fourth major factor to which the Minister pointed is the need for planning. I think I said before the suspension of the sitting for dinner that we endorse the need for co-ordinated planning in broadcasting. The Minister said in his statement that the airwaves are public property. Of course that is the view taken by the Opposition and the Australian Labor Party. The airwaves are public property and always should be utilised as a public property. But unfortunately, too often in the past they have been used primarily as a source of private profit rather than public property. 

 - Mr President, I think an honourable senator is trying to interject. I cannot continue my remarks against that interference. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
Did  Mr Gyngell  obtain the agreement of the other members of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal before using the Tribunal 's name in the advertisements. 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, by referring to the guidelines for ethnic broadcasting which were issued by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications in August last year and particularly to the guideline which provides that ethnic broadcasting services should avoid political partisanship. I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to a report in  Nation Review  of 30 March that there has been a breach of this guideline. The report claims that a certain ethnic group, which I prefer not to name, has on three successive occasions referred in highly favourable terms to an act of political terrorism, that is, the hi-jacking on 30 October 1 977 of a DC4 aircraft belonging to the Vietnamese civil airline. The four hi-jackers killed two members of the crew and seriously wounded a third. The hijackers were described by an ethnic broadcaster on station 2EA as 'courageous seekers of freedom '. What steps is the Government prepared to take to ensure the implementation of the guidelines for ethnic broadcasting and in particular the guideline which requires broadcasters to avoid political partisanship. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It concerns the quarterly survey of unemployment benefit recipients compiled by the statistics section of her Department. Unlike earlier surveys, the past two issues include no breakdown of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders in receipt of the benefit. Can the Minister explain why this group of unemployed persons has been excluded from the national statistics and will this practice continue in future surveys? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister responded to the call by the Australian Teachers' Federation for a meeting with the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  the Treasurer.  Mr Howard,  and the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  to discuss a report that the Taxation Department is considering taxing country teachers on the value of rent subsidies. 
If the meeting has been held, what was the outcome. 
My question to the Minister for Social Security refers to an allegation made by  Senator Harradine  in the adjournment debate last night to the effect that the Working Women's Centre is a proponent of and an agent for  Dr Bertram  Wainer's fertility control clinic in Melbourne. Because this allegation maliciously and mischievously implies that the Working Women's Centre gains some sort of agent's fee or commission from  Dr Wainer's  clinic, I ask the Minister to confirm the fact that the Centre receives no payments from the clinic for making information of this kind available to those women who seek it. 
I should like to add briefly to the remarks made by my colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland on the report of the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations relating to the Australian National Gallery report for 1975-76.  Senator Douglas  McClelland has commented quite adequately on the reasons why it was decided that a Senate Committee should investigate the late submission of that report, and the Senate should be grateful for the work of the Committee. It has produced a very clear document explaining why the report was late, and I think we can draw from the document the understanding that reports, at least from the National Gallery if not from other government bodies, will not be late in future. I emphasise that it is particularly incumbent on bodies such as the National Gallery to comply with requirements such as the one to bring down a proper annual report promptly. 
The area of acquisitions of paintings for the National Gallery unfortunately is a controversial one in our community. Successive governments from time to time have been forced into a very defensive position because of criticisms of particular acquisitions by the Gallery. I suppose it is understandable in a community such as ours, where a variety of tastes and degrees of importance are attached to such a body as the National Gallery, that there should be criticisms of government money allocated in this manner. But is not helpful to governments of any complexion, when they are seeking to establish for the people of Australia an important national art resource, as the National Gallery is doing, to be impeded in their work by the failure of such bodies to make proper information available to the Parliament in the first instance and then to the community. It is of vital importance in every area of government expenditure that there be proper and prompt accountability for money spent. That is even more important in controversial areas such as the acquisition of works of art. 
Although I recognise that the National Gallery is in a very early stage of development, in my view it should look to making acquisitions that it has so far made more accessible to the general public, to the community whose taxes pay for these art objects to be obtained. From that point of view, I welcome the recent Aspects of Australian Art exhibition, which has been mounted by the National Gallery in such a way that it can travel throughout Australia and Australians outside Canberra, Melbourne and Sydney will have an opportunity to see some of the fine works that have been acquired. I should like to say too that it should be possible at this time for the National Gallery to make public a list of acquisitions. I understand that such a list is not yet available, certainly not readily, and again in the interests of community acceptance of public money being spent in this area, I think a public acquisitions list with a proper description of acquisitions and some explanation of why they have been brought into the National Gallery should be forthcoming in the near future. 
The only other comment I wish to make is that it seems to be the case that the National Gallery has suffered in its early years of development from the Government's staff ceilings policy. I understand that new staff has recently been appointed to the National Gallery, but the situation is still not satisfactory. If we are to have the sorts of things that the community wants from a national gallery- information about its operations, access to the works of art, explanations as to why particular works of art have been acquired- then clearly adequate staff is required. I conclude by expressing the hope that the Government will enable proper staffing arrangements to be made for the National Gallery so that it can develop properly as a national resource. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister for Education whether he is aware of the proposal by the Canberra College of Advanced Education to withdraw the Italian translator interpreter course from the course of studies at the end of 1978. Does the Minister agree that there is a need throughout Australia for more trained interpreters and translators to work in the delivery of migrant services? Will the Minister call for a report from the Canberra College of Advanced Education on the proposed withdrawal of the Italian course with a view to taking any necessary steps to retain the course? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, on notice, on 28 February 1 978: 
1 ) Has an interdepartmental or any other type of inquiry been set up to examine the question of clearing all existing broadcasting services, including distance measuring equipment, from the band 88 to 108 MHz; if so, by what date has the Committee been asked to report. 
Will the report be made public. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Why is the Australian Broadcasting Commission not represented on the Australian Government Task Force or a National Communications Satellite System. 
I rise to support the matter of public importance submitted to the Senate for discussion by  Senator Grimes,  namely: 
The damage to community relations and the reputation of our system of justice resulting from the conduct of the authorities in the alleged social security frauds in Sydney. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who has just contributed to the debate, commenced by questioning the claim made by  Senator Grimes  in respect of our legal system and the fact that the Opposition considers that the system has been called into question by the events that have followed the initiation of legal action regarding the social security frauds.  Senator Guilfoyle  pointed out that under our system of justice no one is in fact guilty until he is so proven in a court of law. She told the Senate that although people have been arrested and charged with offences in connection with the social security frauds no one has yet been proven guilty. That seems to me to be quite an inadequate answer to the situation as we know that in Australia one is not only tried in the courts of justice but also tried in the kangaroo court of the media. As I will go on to establish, that court has certainly found the whole of the Greek community guilty of a quite scandalous range of charges. It is that with which I will be primarily concerned in my contribution. 
The Minister referred to what she called allegations made by  Senator Grimes  in his contribution to this debate about various harassments of people who are being accused, of various unjustified arrests by police, about people who had gone to see their doctor being taken by police for questioning and held for long periods of time without justification and so on. It is true that  Senator Grimes  raised those matters in the debate, but they were not- I emphasise this point to the Minister- allegations made by  Senator Grimes  himself. They were allegations which had been made to  Senator Grimes  by responsible members of the Greek community. As  Senator Grimes  has pointed out, they were allegations that had been made publicly by responsible members of the Greek community to officers of the Department of Social Security. They are not matters which simply have been brought forward by  Senator Grimes.  They are matters which are being brought forward in the Parliament by  Senator Grimes  because they have been raised by responsible members of the Greek community, including, of course,  His  Eminence Archbishop Stylianos Because they have been raised by such responsible persons, the Opposition believes that they should have been met by appropriate investigation and explanation, but they have not been. The Parliament is the proper place to raise serious allegations of this kind and the Parliament is the place in which proper answers should be given to these allegations. But to date, in the course of this debate, proper answers have not been given. The Minister has only referred to a report from the Commonwealth Police and quoted from media releases put out by the Director-General of her Department. The Minister has not answered in detail the very serious allegations which have been brought forward by responsible members of the Greek community and which have been raised- very properly, I believe- in the Parliament on behalf of those people by  Senator Grimes. 
They will be recorded in Hansard. I cannot recall them now, but a number of matters were raised by  Senator Grimes  about people being arrested or being taken by police from a doctor's surgery, being held for questioning, being questioned under uncomfortable circumstances, not having explained to them properly the circumstances under which they were being held and so forth. They will be in  Hansard  because  Senator Grimes  has described them in detail. I am merely pointing out on behalf of  Senator Grimes  that they are not his own allegations; they are allegations made to him by responsible members of the Greek community. 
The whole media treatment of this episode has been scandalous. It is one of the most devisive discriminatory episodes of Press reporting of which I am aware. The reporting has been unbalanced and selective. The choice of the socalled facts which have been brought to public attention has been extremely discriminatory. There has been an hysterical tone of xenophobia with stories about Greeks living in luxury abroad on Australian pensions and so on. Before I proceed to discuss these matters in detail I feel that I must make some exceptions. It seems to me that two newspapers- the  Age  and the  Canberra Times- were  scrupulous in their avoidance of ethnic slurs. I feel that should be stated. There may be other newspapers throughout Australia which were equally scrupulous, but I am not aware of them. However, the  Age  and the  Canberra Times  are excluded from the remarks I will subsequently make. I would also say, by way of putting this whole matter into a political context, that I do not regard the activities of the media in this matter as totally outside the ambit of government. I do not believe that the Press can pursue this scandalous and discriminatory approach to a matter of social concern without the Government having some role or responsibility in the matter. 
One of the most mischievous headlines was the one in the  Daily Mirror  which read: '$35m A Year Sent Overseas'. On the same page that newspaper cited some figures which in fact are quite low considering the number of persons justly entitled to benefits. Of course, the bulk of the expatriate pensioners are in receipt of age and widows pensions and not invalid and sickness benefits, which were the subject of the investigations. The newspaper reports implied that these people were ripping off the system and were taking unearned Australian money. Indeed, that has been the tenor of most of the media coverage of this matter. What most of the media have done is to extend the perhaps justifiable attack on illegal beneficiaries to all beneficiaries, without differentiating in their stories between those who were legally entitled to receive the benefits, whether overseas or otherwise, and those who were not. It is not the position of the Opposition that such matters should not be properly investigated. One should perhaps re-state the fact that the Opposition thoroughly supports the Minister and the Department when they take action to pursue people who are illegally receiving benefits. 
We do not argue with that. What we do accuse the Government of, in particular, is mishandling this situation so that the allegations of discrimination, ethnic prejudice and so forth have justly and properly been raised. 
Certainly. If I could go on to refer to some of the more outrageous treatment given migant groups in the Press, let me say that the Government is not entirely innocent of creating the environment in which the Press can write that sort of story. I would like also to make it clear to the Senate that, historically, many people who came to this country during the fifties and sixties were encouraged by various governments to do so in order to build up our industry, and work especially in low-paid, unskilled pursuits. Many have now reached the age where they are entitled to the age pension. Others, in the course of their work, have become ill and properly entitled to invalid benefits. It is their unqualified right, if they so wish, to return to the land of their birth and accept the pension there. They are totally justified in doing so if they have properly earned that benefit. That point could well have been made by spokesmen for the Government prior to this stage. 
One of the more obvious reasons why people who are not of Australian birth might choose to go home to live in their retirement is that the pension level in Australia is very low; that people who are entirely dependent on it cannot live decently, whereas they may be able to do so in a country with a different standard of living. The Press might also have noted- unfortunately it did not- that by returning to their homeland, these people would be in fact saving Australia money. As elderly people or invalids they would inevitably need more and more medical attention as they progressed. By removing themselves from Australia they would not be making the claims on the Australian system that they could justly make. Also, for many migrants, the land of their birth offers much more extensive social security and health insurance systems than are offered in this country. So there are many quite justifiable reasons why people might choose, at the end of their working life, or when they have become incapacitated, to return to the land of their birth. 
I do not know who is challenging it,  Senator, but  it seems to me that these points should have been made by the Government when the whole matter was first treated so badly in the Press, but they were not. On 4 April, when I questioned the Minister about the  Daily Mirror  headline of 3 April, 'War on dole cheats- $42m fraud', she said that on many occasions she deplored the use of the term 'dole cheats' with regard to unemployment beneficiaries. However, a Press release of 15 January 1976 which her Department issued jointly with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  was headed, Move to stop dole cheats', so I think that the Minister has contributed to the media's use of that term. The  Daily Mirror  headline was also entirely misleading, since the so-called cheating was in respect not of unemployment benefits but of social security, and invalid and sickness benefits. 
I should like to mention in passing also that the Opposition is very concerned about the recent trend in the Press to describe social problems in ethnic terms. The question of the social security fraud is only one instance of that. In the  National Times  of 10 April 1978 a lengthy article on drugs was headed 'The Ethnic connection', and was accompanied by an illustration of an armed gangster. The sub-headings were: 'The Italians', 'The Chinese', 'The Lebanese'; and the Turks also got a mention as being involved in drug running and dealing. 
They are matters that concern everybody who believes that ours should be a society in which all cultures can live reasonably. The question that I would like to put again -since it has not been answered is this: How did it come about that the Press photographers accompanied the Commonwealth police on the first round of raids? I have here an article from the Sydney  Sun  headed, 'How they planned the raids'. I do not know whether the Department of Social Security is implied in the use of the word they'. The article goes on to say: 
This was the sequence of events surrounding one of Friday's raids, witnessed by a  Sun  news team. 
I would like to ask how it came about that the  Sun  news team accompanied Commonwealth police during this first episode. I do not believe it to be in the interests of either the community or of justice that they did. 
I referred earlier to an article from the  Daily Mirror  headed, '$35m a year sent overseas'. 
That article goes on to give statistics about the number of benefits that are paid to recipients overseas. It tells us that about 2,600 Greeks are in that category. In the time remaining, I would like to make the point that none of the stories that I have read in the Press about the number of pensions being paid overseas have carried with them balancing statistics about the number of people of ethnic origin living in Australia. I suppose there are at least two million people of ethnic origin living in this country. In that context, the payment of a total of 12,397 benefits overseas does not represent a large number. It is very small considering the many reasons why people might wish to return to their homeland. 
I would like to conclude by saying that the treatment of this issue by the media has been scandalous, divisive and discriminatory. I do not think anybody would argue with that. Why am I raising the treatment by the media in a motion that basically sets out to criticise government authorities? It is because I believe that when the Government sees this sort of discriminatory and scandalous treatment taking place through the media it should act in such a way as to provide, first of all, machinery whereby people who have been treated in this way can obtain some sort of redress. I do not think the Press Council, as currently constituted, provides that machinery. I do not think  Mr Grassby,  the Commissioner for Community Relations, has enough resources appropriately to deal with these things. The Government should take firmer and fairer steps to protect vulnerable members of the community from this sort of attack by the media and provide more efficient, just and effective machinery, whereby redress against this sort of injustice can be achieved. 
I present the following petition from 104 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Government should ensure that Item 6469 is not removed from the standard Medical Benefits Table. 
That this item which an estimated 49, 1 45 contributors claimed in the 1976-77 financial year, covers a legal and medically approved procedure. 
That the removal of this item from the schedule would destroy the concept of universal health insurance, and would have the most serious repercussions for women and their health. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Has his Department received a request for legal aid from  Mr Ivan  Kayne the Victorian  President  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association, who has undertaken legal action in the Industrial Division of the Federal Court in an effort to prevent the impending elections for the positions of Federal  President  and Vice  President  of the ABC Staff Association being carried out by rank and file ballot? If legal aid has been granted to  Mr Kayne,  according to what criteria has it been granted? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 28 February 1978: 
With reference to the Government's inquiry into the possible introduction of a national communications satellite system in Australia, in view of the serious dangers to the Australian public of such a system should it come under monopoly control, will the Minister tell the Senate what steps have been taken to ensure that all interested members of the public will have an opportunity to put their views to the inquiry? Will the Minister say whether the Government intends to table the findings of the inquiry so that all Australians may consider for themselves the arguments for and against such a system before any decision is taken regarding the introduction of a national broadcasting satellite. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I preface it by reminding the Minister that, as a result of the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, the Australian Council for Educational Research surveyed the skills of Australian 10- year-olds and 14-year-olds in October 1975. This survey revealed serious unmet needs in remedial reading and number work. I ask: What initiatives have been taken by the Federal Government to overcome these deficiencies. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial 
Relations seen in today's  Australian Financial Review  a letter citing statistics that demonstrate the extent of unemployment amongst women? For example, the figures show that the total unemployment amongst women is 10.4 per cent compared with a 6 per cent male unemployment rate. The figures go through the various categories showing that in every category, including married and unmarried women and so on, the unemployment of women is very much higher than unemployment of men. Do these figures concur with data available to the Government? If so, does the Minister agree that they establish that women are severely disadvantaged in the current unemployment crisis? Will the Government consider taking special measures to combat female unemployment similar to the special steps it has taken to assist unemployed youth? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security relating to procedures for investigating complaints against recipients of the supporting mothers' benefit. Is the recipient's pension withdrawn as soon as a complaint is made and comes under investigation or does the recipient remain in receipt of the pension while the investigation is carried out and lose it only if she is found to be ineligible on completion of the investigation ? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs in which I refer to the recent decision of the Minister for Home Affairs to refuse funding for the Film Australia project 'The Unknown Industrial Prisoner'. Because of the widespread concern in the industry and the community generally at the Minister's decision, 1 wrote to the Minister last week urging him to reconsider his decision in the light of those provisions contained in the Australian Film Commission Act which require the Commission to make films that enrich and illustrate aspects of Australian life. What is the Minister's response to this request? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications a question regarding the inquiry into the release of an extra television channel for ethnic television. Is this inquiry to be a public or private inquiry? What steps has the Government taken to invite the views of ethnic broadcasters? Will the Government allow all people involved in ethnic broadcasting to give their views or is it the Government's intention to seek the views only of the co-ordinators of ethnic radio? 
The Opposition has serious reservations about and in most cases is in outright opposition to the package of Bills that has come before us at this stage of the debate. These Bills are part of a package of Bills which have one major purpose, that is, to enable the mining of uranium in the Northern Territory to proceed. The Government clearly intends to proceed with the mining of uranium regardless of the consequences to health, the environment, the Aboriginal people and their aspirations for land rights, civil liberties and world peace and security. 
As has just been established, the main Bill in the package is the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill. It is that Bill which gives the go-ahead to uranium mining through the setting up of machinery which involves a grave erosion of civil liberties in this country. Of the five Bills, one gives modified and unsatisfactory land rights to Northern Territory Aboriginals- modified by the requirements of mining, and unsatisfactory for that reason. Miners demands will supersede Aboriginal land rights and the preservation of sacred places. The other four Bills are regulatory Bills purporting to regulate the operations of uranium mining and health issues raised in the two Fox reports. Because they will be inadequate as regulatory mechanisms the Opposition cannot support them. 
The Opposition is opposed to uranium mining. For reasons well known to the Senate and to the public at this stage, we entirely oppose that main effect of the Bills- that is, the procedure for mining in the Northern Territory. We have been defeated just now in our major opposition to the Government's intention but we continue our opposition in respect of the three Bills before the Senate at this stage- the Environment Protection (Alligators Rivers Region) Bill, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill and the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Bill. Our opposition to these Bills is based on the assertion that the Bills purport to provide machinery by which the environmental and health consequences of mining can be regulated and their most destructive consequences contained. But the machinery as set out in the Bills, including the incomplete declaration of the Kakadu National Park, will not achieve that effect. 
The Bills are merely window dressing. They are an attempt to demonstrate the Government 's good faith in the matter of regulating the mining industry. But they are an unsuccessful attempt. The Government has no good faith in this matter. It has only one genuine objective and that is to proceed with mining. On the other hand, the Australian Labor Party, the Opposition, has several major objectives in this matter: Firstly, the prevention of mining; secondly the securing of Aboriginal land rights in an unqualified manner; thirdly, the protection of the environment; and, fourthly, the protection of the health of this community. We will pursue all these objectives in our handling of these three Bills. 
I turn now to the first Bill, the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill. This Bill purports to provide the administrative framework for monitoring research and control of the effects of uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers Region. Because the Alligator Rivers Region will be the subject of the three Bills, I will remind the Senate, by reading an extract from the Fox report, of just what is the Alligator Rivers Region. I refer to page 1 7 of the second Fox report which states: 
The distinctive  subregions  and the large seasonal changes give rise to a wide diversity of plant and animal habitats. As a consequence, the Region is rich in numbers of species of both flora and fauna. Zoologically and  botanically  it is representative of a large part of the far north of tropical Australia. However, because of the diversity of the native species which occur in the Region, it is regarded as one of the biologically richest in Australia. 
It goes on: 
Terrestrial and aquatic vegetation and animals have adapted to survive the rigorous changes between wet and dry seasons and the variations imposed by years of low and high rainfall. Some survive by avoiding the stresses: for example, some plant species are annuals, and some are deciduous or have distinct annual growth cycles. 
The report states further: 
The Region and surrounding areas have been occupied by Aboriginals for at least 25,000 years. 
Further in the report, it states: 
Although western-type foods are readily available at the centres of population, traditional foods remain an important part of the diet of most of the Aboriginals, and foraging and hunting are still widely practised in parts of the Region. The Aboriginal population of the Region has been estimated to be about 800, in a total population of about 1 .000. 
A further description of the geophysical characteristics of the area is given, and the report states: 
In these respects it is one of the most important and valuable parts of Australia. 
This is the region which is supposed to be achieving protection in the legislation before us. In reviewing the quantity and quality of pollution to be released by uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers Region, the Ranger Commission decided that a completely different outlook to mining company proposals was needed. It expressed uncertainty about the types, amounts and chemical forms of mine pollutants; in the environment; changes in toxicity of contaminants with time or place; sensitivity of the environment to toxic substances; and effects of other non-toxic factors such as eutrophication. Yet, as proposed, large amounts of contaminated water will be placed in the Magela Basin on the strength of a few simple toxicity studies. 
In concluding that there is at present no scientific basis for deriving water release standards on the Ranger project site, the Commission has recommended that all practicable means using best available technology be used to reduce pollution of all types from the mine. Meanwhile, our lack of knowledge on the environmental effects of mining can be corrected by means of a local research institute headed by a supervising scientist who would also be  chairman  of a coordinating committee of government, Aboriginal and mining representatives. The co-ordinating committee would help to develop the monitoring and research programs for the Region and would review any major changes proposed for the Ranger project. The Bill before us at this stage sets up a co-ordinating committee and institutes the position of supervising scientist in an attempt to implement the Ranger inquiry recommendations for these arrangements. However, in the view of the Opposition, the requirements of the Ranger recommendation are not implemented in the legislation before us. 
In summary, our objections to this Bill are as follows: First of all, the supervising scientist is not independent of the Minister and the provisions for his reports and recommendations to come before the Parliament are inadequate. The Parliament and the public will not have access to the findings of the supervising scientist. Findings detrimental to the Government's credibility could be concealed. The co-ordinating committee which is to work with the supervising scientist in monitoring the effects of mining is too narrow in its Ranger membership and could be dominated by pro-mining interests. 
Clause 3 1 of the Bill places undue restriction on the supervising scientist's access to relevant information enshrining the principle, as it does, of business confidentiality and putting this principle above the principle of thorough and complete reporting by the supervising scientist. The supervising scientist is empowered only to reveal information which the business interests and the mining interests in the regions are happy to have revealed. A further unsatisfactory aspect of the Bill is the exclusion of the construction of towns and camps and facilities for towns and camps for mining workers from the provisions of the Bill. It should be clear to the Senate that such constructions and facilities could and probably would endanger the environment in many ways. Yet they are excluded from the regulatory provisions of this Bill. 
Yet a further unsatisfactory aspect of the Bill is that the rights of the supervisory scientist in clause 29 override the provision in the Aboriginal Lands Act 1976 which prohibits a person from entering or remaining on Aboriginal land except for the purposes of that Act. Overall, this legislation is unsatisfactory. It does not implement all the recommendations in chapter 1 7 of the Fox report. It is an inadequate attempt to come to terms with the issues raised in that chapter. For example, recommendation 15 of chapter 1 7 states: 
Thai mining and milling not be allowed to start until it is demonstrated that all components or the monitoring system operate satisfactorily. 
It is quite clear at this stage that we have not developed the monitoring system sufficiently to see whether it does operate satisfactorily. I think that is one example in which a significant recommendation in chapter 17 of the Fox report has not been implemented. We oppose this Bill and will move amendments, based on our opposition, at the Committee stage. 
The second Bill of the three that has come before us for discussion this evening is the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill 1978. This Bill is the vehicle for the proclamation of the Kakadu National Park. Although Australians generally and the Australian Labor Party in particular are most anxious to have the Kakadu National Park declared we cannot support the Bill in its present form. The declaration of the Park is incomplete. I suggest that it is a travesty of the environmental concept of a national park. The Government is trying to foist on the Australian people the contradictory concept of a national park that contains hazardous and destructive uranium mining sites within its region. Because we genuinely support the concept of the Kakadu National Park, because we genuinely want this unique, exotic and highly significant region, part of which is to become Aboriginal land, to be protected from despoilation, we strongly oppose any and all uranium mining within the catchment area of the Alligator Rivers region. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
On how many occasions did (a) Liberal and (b) Labor Federal Parliamentarians appear on ABC News or  This Day Tonight  programs in Tasmania in January and February 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) Have certain popular Australian Broadcasting Commission programs, such as the  Norman Gunston Show  and  Steptoe and Son,  moved to commercial stations. 
What criteria are used by Australian Broadcasting Commission program managers in deciding to discontinue programs which have proved popular with audiences. 
Are these decisions taken as a result of government cutback in ABC funding or is it now the function of the ABC to test audience responses for commercial television companies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 1 April 1978: 
1 ) Which members of the Australian Government Task Force Inquiry into a national communications satellite system have travelled overseas, in their capacity as members of the Task Force, to visit organisations and companies concerned with communications satellite equipment. 
Which organisations did each of the Task Force members visit, and who accompanied them. 
Did the Australian Government meet the cost of these visits; if so, how much did each visit cost; if not, who paid for the visits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister received an application from the manufacturers of the suppository drug, Prostaglandin E2, for approval to market the drug in Australia; if so, what was the Minister's response to the application. 
If no such application has been made, will the Minister assure the Senate that any decision on whether to approve the marketing of the drug will be based on its merits, and that he will not allow the opposition of the Right to Life Association to impede the development of this beneficial medical procedure. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) Has the Attorney-General 's Department received a request for legal aid from  Mr Ivan  Kayne the Victorian  President  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association, who has undertaken legal action in the Industrial Division of the Federal  Court  in an effort to prevent impending elections for the positions of Federal President and VicePresident of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association being carried out by rank-and-file ballot. 
Has legal aid been granted to  Mr Kayne  if so, according to what criteria. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 8 May 1 978: 
Will the Government correct the injustice being suffered by recipients of Australian Government Employees' Compensation pensions, which have not been adjusted since 1976. 
The Opposition opposes this clause entirely. The purpose of the clause is, in fact, to ensure the confidentiality of business information acquired by the Supervising Scientist or his staff in the course of their duty. We are opposed to the enshrining of the principle of business confidentiality above the requirement for the Supervising Scientist to have the freedom to report any information that may be of interest to the Minister or the Parliament. 
I move: 
In proposed section 1 7a, leave out sub-section (3 ). 
The Opposition believes that undue concern has been given to protecting mining interests- 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! It being 10 p.m., in accordance with Sessional Orders, I put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 The Chairman  having reported accordingly- 
I move: 
Leave out clause 6, insert the following clause: 6. (1) The Supervising Scientist has power to do all things that are necessary or convenient to be done for, or in connexion with, the performance of his functions. 
Any recommendations for action shall be made in writing to the Minister, who shall, as soon as practicable after he has received them, cause the recommendations to be laid before both Houses of Parliament. 
Either House of Parliament, within15 sitting days after the recommendations have been laid before that House, may, in pursuance of a motion upon notice, pass a resolution disallowing the recommendations for action. 
If neither House of the Parliament passes a resolution in accordance with sub-section (3) disallowing the recommendations for action, the recommendations for action become a mandatory requirement from the day immediately following the last day upon which such a resolution could have been passed by either House. 
If, at the expiration of 1 5 sitting days after notice of a motion to disallow an order, either wholly or in so far as it related to a part of the code or of the variations of a code approved by the order, has been given in a House of the Parliament, being notice given within15 sitting days after a copy of the order has been laid before that House- 
the notice has not been withdrawn and the motion has not been called on; or 
the motion has been called on, moved and seconded and has not been withdrawn or otherwise disposed of, this Act has effect as if the order had not been made, or as if that part of the code or of the variations of the code had not been approved by the order, as the case requires. '. 
I have read out in full the amendment which I have moved on behalf of the Opposition because it explains the nature of our opposition to clause 6 as it is presented in this Bill by the Government. We wish to make the Supervising Scientist independent of the Minister. We wish to make it possible and indeed mandatory that all the recommendations of the Supervising Scientist shall be brought before the Parliament, not just the annual report or the reports that the Minister may choose to call for. We wish to make all the recommendations of the Supervising Scientist available for perusal within the Parliament. We believe that those recommendations, if not opposed by the Parliament, should require the Government to take certain actions. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (2 ), insert the following new sub-clause: (2a) The list to be prepared by the Minister under subsection ( 2 ) shall include: 
the Australian Academy of Science; 
the Australian Conservation Foundation; 
the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies; 
the Northern Land Council; and 
the Northern Territory Environment Council. '. 
The Opposition moves this amendment as it considers that the co-ordinating committee as proposed, and even as expanded by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in the amendments he has just moved, will still not be representative enough of all the bodies which will have an interest in this matter. We are still concerned that the committee as proposed will be dominated by pro-mining interests and will not properly represent the interests of those people who have objections to or reservations about mining. Honourable senators will notice that the bodies which we seek to be represented on the committee include prestigious scientific bodies such as the Australian Academy of Science, the Australian Conservation Foundation, which is the body which nationally represents the interests of conservationists throughout Australia and the Northern Territory and the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, which we include because it represents nationally the interests of the Aboriginal people. We propose the inclusion of those bodies specifically, as well as the inclusion of the bodies mentioned in the Minister's amendment to this clause. 
 The Opposition opposes the amendment moved by the Minister. In content, it conflicts with the amendment moved by the Opposition  to  the motion for the second reading of the Bill, which was to the effect that certain pastoral leases should be assumed immediately by the Commonwealth and made part of the national park without reference to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. We were unsuccessful in moving that amendment but we still persist with the view that the Northern Territory administration should not be required to give its consent to certain actions of the Commonwealth. We still believe that the Commonwealth should assume those pastoral leases immediately and not be obliged to get the consent of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in order to do so. 
-Imove: 
After sub-section (2) of proposed section 8c, insert the following new sub-section: (2a) A township shall not be established or developed by the Director on Aboriginal land except after consultation with the Aboriginal Land Council established under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1 976 for the area in which the land is situated. '. 
I believe that the amendment is self-explanatory. As my colleague,  Senator Cavanagh,  has established in his contribution on the previous amendment, we are asserting here the supremacy of the Aboriginals land rights claim over any other claims or developments that shall be made in that area. 
-I move: 
In proposed sub-section (3), leave out "may", insert "shall". 
The import of this amendment is that under the Government's National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill the Director may, for the purposes of Part II of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, surrender to the Commonwealth any interest held by him in respect of land within a park or reserve within the Region. Our proposal is that it should be mandatory that the Director surrender such interest. Again, we believe that such an amendment would be in the interests of the Aboriginal people and would do no harm to the interests of the Director or the interests of the Australian people. 
I do not wish to move an amendment to Clause 8, but I wish to take the opportunity presented by the consideration of clause 8 to correct a misleading statement which was made during the second reading debate this afternoon. Clause 8 deals with provisions relating to mining within the National Park area. In my remarks on that provision during the second reading debate I quoted from an article which  Sir Mark  Oliphant wrote for the  Sydney Morning Herald  published on 9 May 1978, in which he described the effects of radon gas, which is one of the inevitable consequences of the milling and mining of uranium. 
Later in the debate  Senator Jessop  disagreed with the views expressed in  Sir Mark  Oliphant 's article which I had put forward.  Senator Jessop  made a claim which I believe seriously misrepresents the position of  Sir Mark  Oliphant with respect to uranium mining. As I recall,  Senator Jessop  claimed that he had had a conversation with  Sir Mark  Oliphant and  Sir Mark  Oliphant was not opposed to uranium mining and did not consider it hazardous. I am not quoting  Senator Jessop  's exact words, but that was certainly the effect of the claim he made. 
During the suspension of the sitting this evening, I telephoned  Sir Mark  Oliphant because I was concerned that his position had been misrepresented. He told me that he was opposed to uranium mining. He said he was against uranium and the use of uranium reactors.  His  main reason for opposing the use of uranium reactors was not based on health considerations but rather on proliferation considerations. He does not believe that there are any safeguards which can guarantee against the proliferation of nuclear reactors. He does not believe that written guarantees regarding safeguards provide any assurance that there will not be a proliferation of reactors. That is the main reason for his opposition. 
He did say that there were steps which could be taken to safeguard workers in the industry against the very harmful effects of radon gas. He said that these were not difficult steps to take but would be very costly. Indeed, he described these steps in the article from which I quoted. They involved such measures as complete washing down of workers, providing a separate air channel for them and so forth. I take this opportunity to correct the misrepresentation made by  Senator Jessop  with regard to the position of  Sir Mark  Oliphant who is against uranium and against the use of uranium reactors. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
Section 1 1 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting paragraph (c) of sub-section (2) and substituting the following paragraph and words: 
specify an address to which such representations may be forwarded, and, in the case of a plan of management in respect of a park or reserve wholly or partly within a prescribed area, shall serve a copy ofthe notice on the relevant  Chairman.  '; 
by omitting paragraph (d) of sub-section ( 10) and substituting the following paragraph and words: 
specify an address to which representations in connexion with the plan may bc forwarded, and, in the case of the plan of management in respect of a park or reserve wholly or partly within a prescribed area, shall, not later than the date of publication of the notice in the  Gazelle,  serve a copy ofthe plan and of the notice on the relevant Chairman.'; and 
Where, under sub-section (13), the Minister refers to the Director the plan of management in respect of a park or reserve wholly or partly within a prescribed area, he shall cause a copy of his suggestions referred to the Director with the plan to be served on the relevant  Chairman,  and the  Chairman  may, within the period of 14 days after receiving a copy ofthe suggestions, make representations to the Director in connexion with the suggestions. 
When a plan of management is laid before both Houses of Parliament under section 12, the Minister shall cause the plan to be accompanied by- 
copies of any representations and comments, and of any report and recommendations, submitted to him under this section in connexion with the plan, other than those that have been given effect to in the plan; and 
in a case where he has made alterations to the plan under sub-section ( 19)- a report specifying the alterations and setting out any views expressed by the Director, and, in the case of a plan of management in respect of a park or reserve wholly or partly within a prescribed area, by the relevant Chairman, in respect of matters to which the alterations relate. 
On behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
In proposed sub-section (4), leave out 'he thinks fit', insert he thinks necessary to ensure that the Director complies with the plan of management'. 
This amendment relates to a report given to the Minister which would indicate whether the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service had in fact complied with an agreed plan of management. The Opposition does not believe that the Minister should determine the matter other than in accordance with the plan of management. We believe, therefore, that the wording of the amendment will, if accepted, tighten up the intent of the Bill, will make it more explicit and will give a clear direction to the Minister as to his function in determining the matter. 
I should like to continue the remarks I was making last evening when the Senate was debating these Bills. These three Bills are a part of the package of Bills that the Government has brought before us to enable uranium mining in the Northern Territory to proceed. The Opposition is, of course, opposed to uranium mining. We have not been successful in our opposition to the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill which in fact permits uranium mining to proceed. However, we continue our opposition to the three Bills before us now because, although they pur.poit to provide machinery and measures whereby the environmental and hazardous effects of uranium mining can be controlled and regulated, we find that the provisions are not satisfactory. 
In particular I will address my remarks to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill 1978. The Opposition cannot support this Bill in its present form. We genuinely support the concept of the Kakadu National Park. We genuinely want this unique, exotic and highly significant region- part of which is to become Aboriginal land- to be protected from despoilation. But we strongly oppose any and all uranium mining within the catchment area of the Alligator Rivers Region within the Kakadu National Park. Of course, the Bill - 

 - Senator Baume seems to be confused about the nature of our opposition. The Opposition supports the declaration of the Kakadu National Park. It cannot accept the concept, as embodied in this legislation, of a national park which will have three uranium mines within it. In chapter 5 of the second Fox report, the known and unknown dangers of mining to the region are discussed. It is evident from that discussion that there can be no guarantees of containing the effects of mining within the region to the mining lease areas. The whole ecosystem of the Kakadu National Park will be vulnerable to destruction from the three mining leases which are permitted to proceed within the National Park area. The Bill excludes three mining sites from the declared park area, even though they are physically within the area. They are the Ranger, the Pancontinental and the Noranda leases. It is the view of the Oppositionindeed, it was the view of the Ranger inquirythat mining of this kind within the National Park area will detrimentally affect the entire parkland area. There will be pollution of the waterways. There will be contamination of the air. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to one particular consequence of uranium mining in the area- the production of radon gas. My colleague  Senator Melzer  in an earlier debate on uranium spelt out in great detail the nature of radon gas and its disastrous consequences in all sorts of ways. In an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 9 May this year  Sir Mark  Oliphant gave his expert view on the nature of radon gas, and said: 
Rich uranium ores contain a gram or more of the daughter substance of the slow radioactive decay of uranium, radium, together with all the subsequent radioactive substances it produces, including the gas radon. 
Radon is one of the rare gases, without chemical properties, and the only way to remove it from the environment is to freeze it out with a coolant like liquid air. The radon itself undergoes  sponstaneous  radioactive decay into a series of substances, themselves radioactive, ending up finally as ordinary lead. 
Radon will be released into the air from the ore as it is mined, crushed, and dissolved in acid, while the other radioactive products of the radium series, being solid, will bc present in any dust. All, in sufficient quantity, are potentially lethal. Oust masks should give reasonable protection against the solids, but cannot remove the radon . . . 
As with asbestosis, the effects of these low doses of radiation, which can be well below the officially prescribed limit, can be delayed for decades. There is now growing evidence in the United States, as told to the Congressional inquiry in February last, that those who have been in contact with uranium, for instance in mining, in reactor operation, and in the maintenance of nuclear reactors for submarine propulsion, may develop  leukemias  and other forms of cancer, 20-30 years after initial exposure. 
Radon is the gas that will be released into the environment of the Kakadu National Park when mining proceeds on these three leases. We have a further objection to the legislation that is before us with regard to the Kakadu National Park. We object to the existence of two privately owned leases- Gimbat and Goodparla- within the region. The existence of these pastoral leases poses a further threat to the environment of the National Park, for reasons which will be evident to the Senate and which have been discussed in detail in the Fox report. We urge the Government to follow the Fox report's recommendations on these leases, that is, that the Government should acquire the leases and add them to the proposed National Park. 
The Bill is further inadequate in the provisions for consulting with and recognising the wishes of the Aboriginals in this area. I remind the Senate that the declaration of the park became possible only after the Northern Territory Aboriginal Land Council let it be known to the Ranger inquiry that local Aboriginals would agree to Aboriginal land becoming part of the national park. I believe- and the Opposition believes- that the Aboriginals in that area are entitled to better protection of their interests than is provided for in this Bill. Certain provisions in this Bill override the provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act and we believe that that is a breaking of faith with the Aboriginal communities in this area which have gone to so much trouble and have been so co-operative as to agree to have certain parts of Aboriginal land incorporated in the national park. 
In summary, the Opposition cannot support the Bill in its present form. We are very anxious to see the declaration of a national park; that is, one free of uranium mining. We do not oppose the Bill in its entirety. However, on behalf of the Opposition, to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time, I move: 
At end of motion, add', but the Senate: 
opposes mining in the catchment area of the Alligator Rivers, portion of which is within the proposed boundaries of the Kakadu National Park; and 
urges the Government to proceed forthwith to acquire the Goodparla and Gimbat pastoral leases'. 
I proceed now to the third of this series of Bills which the Senate is now debating and that is the Bill relating to the enforcement by the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory of Australia of certain provisions for the protection of the environment in the Alligator Rivers region. The purpose of this Bill is to confer jurisdiction within the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory in relation to the enforcement of the requirements for the protection of the environment in this area. The Opposition cannot support this Bill. We do support the principle that a jurisdiction should be established in relation to the enforcement of certain legal requirements for the protection of the environment in the Alligator Rivers region, but we do not agree that this jurisdiction should be in the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory. It is the view of the Opposition that jurisdiction for this enforcement should be in the Federal Court of Australia. Similarly, it is our view that the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill should be in jurisdiction of the Federal Court of Australia, and one of my colleagues will explain our position on that at a later stage. Our reason for wishing the Federal Court and not the Northern Territory Supreme Court to have jurisdiction over these matters is that uranium is a national issue and the regulation and control of it should be a matter of national responsibility. It is not simply a territorial matter or a State matter. It is a national matter. The legislation enabling uranium mining to proceed is a matter for the national Parliament. So we believe that the matter of jurisdiction, of enforcement of regulatory procedures should also be a federal responsibility and a matter for the Federal Court. In our view the same laws and the same interpretation of those laws regarding the regulation and control of uranium mining should apply throughout Australia. Putting the jurisdiction, as this legislation does, in a territorial court is a failure on the part of the Federal Government to accept federal responsibility in this matter. 
A further specific objection to the Bill is this: Access to the court which will have jurisdiction in this matter is too restrictive. It is restrictive in fact to two people- the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service and the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. Of course, both of these people should have access. We do not query that, but all other people and groups are denied access and in the view of the Opposition this is wrong. The Land Council itself finds it wrong and has communicated this view to us. The Bill as it is currently worded provides that the  Chairman  of the Land Council and the Director of the Wildlife Service will have entire responsibility for taking action when there have been any breaches of the regulatory procedures. A whole new body of uranium law is being developed at this time. 
The Opposition of course is very unhappy about the nature of that law; nonetheless we recognise the reality that this law is being developed to control this highly hazardous industry. Yet individual members of the public or concerned groups will have no access to this law. In our view there should be a single federal court with access for all concerned citizens to deal with breaches of the law relating to uranium. The Bill does not provide this, so the Opposition will oppose the motion that the Bill be read a second time. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
What is the breakdown, by sex, of the number of people, both adults and juniors, who have renewed training under each of the employer subsidy training schemes. 
What type of training, in accordance with Commonwealth Employment service job categories, has been provided to adult and junior beneficiaries, of both sexes, of employer subsidy schemes. 
How many employers have taken advantage of the various schemes, and how many times has each employer done so. 
How many employers have terminated the employment of government-subsidised trainees, when the Government allowances have terminated. 
Are all applications from employers for subsidies for trainees carefully scrutinised. 
What safeguards are in force to: (a) prevent employers dismissing existing staff to take advantage of subsidies; and (b) ensure that employers do not dismiss trainees at the end of the period of Government allowances. 
What type of labour market research is being done by the Minister's department to determine areas where skills are needed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In answer to my question on notice on this subject the Minister said that no information was available on the number of employers who had taken advantage of employment subsidy schemes or on the number of times they have used them. Why does this Government which employs Draconian measures to check the validity of all pension claims not keep records which would provide a means of safeguarding against abuses by employers of the subsidy schemes? Is it the case that the Government has the information but is not prepared to release it? 
The Opposition believes that undue concern has been given to protecting mining interests in this whole series of Bills. For example, I refer to the question of penalties for a supervising scientist who discloses a matter that he discovers in the course of his supervisory duties. That is dealt with in the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill. The principle now is enshrined that business confidentiality must come before the thoroughness of the work of the supervising scientist. For that reason the Opposition objects to this clause. 
If it is necessary to have an industrial or health inspector or any other kind of authority to monitor and restrain the activities of a corporate body, surely the least we can do is to give that authority the freedom that is extended to industrial inspectors and other authorities who have a responsibility, by virtue of their public position, not to disclose information irresponsibly. The Opposition feels that this clause is an unwarranted concession to private interests. It will enable private interests to withhold information on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate them. We feel that it is a dangerous clause which smacks of totalitarian procedures rather than democratic procedures and we strongly urge the Senate to accept the amendment. 
I move: 
In proposed section 17 (C), leave out sub-section (4). 
Proposed sub-section (4) reads: 
The Court shall not, under this section, require a person to furnish information or a document if the Court is satisfied that compliance with a requirement to furnish that information or document might tend to incriminate that person. 
Our objection to the inclusion of this sub-section is similar to our objection to the provision on which the Senate has just divided. The Opposition believes that already there are adequate safeguards for individual rights in court procedures. The only incrimination we can envisage is of the very type that ought to be brought out. The problem is that if people, businesses or companies breach the enviromental protection measures outlined in the Bill in such a way as would be destructive to the environment, to the health of workers in the industry, or to the community generally, they may conceal that breach by claiming that the information which would establish it would lead to their incrimination. So much protection is offered by this sub-section against prosecution for certain breaches of the law that no remedy would be possible. All sorts of powerful restraints are available to corporate bodies to restrict the flow of information- to such an extent that it is very difficult to police their behaviour. 
The court ought to have the discretion, privately or in public hearings, to have access to that type of information. Certainly, the subsection refers to the incrimination of a person, but in many cases acts for which corporate bodies are responsible can be punished only by prosecuting an individual. We believe that such individuals, acting as agents of corporate bodies, would have undue blanket protection under this sub-section. Of course, in the particular case we are dealing' with, it would be the mining companies- the corporate bodies- that would have this built-in protection against prosecution for breaches of the legislation before us. We believe that the proposed sub-section should be omitted. 
The Opposition opposes clause 16. For the reasons I outlined earlier we want it to be omitted from the Bill. Aboriginal interests should take priority over national parks, wildlife or any other interests in the disposal or administration of Aboriginal land or the allocation of purposes to Aboriginal land. We believe this clause makes an unnecessary and unwarranted intrusion into those rights if in the administration of those lands we are really interested in Aboriginal land rights and Aboriginal priorities. 
I move: 
After the definition of 'requirement', insert the following definition: 
Supervising Scientist' means the Supervising Scientist as defined in the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Act 1978;. 
The amendment is self-explanatory. We wish to involve that office in the provisions of this legislation. 
-by leave- I move: 
In  sub-clause ( 1 ),  leave out 'at the suit of the Director or of a Land Council, to make orders for or in relation to the enforcement, in relation to uranium mining operations in the Alligator Rivers Region', insert 'at the suit of the Director, the Supervising Scientist, a Land Council or any person or persons whose interests are affected by uranium mining operations in the Alligator Rivers Region, to make orders for or in relation to the enforcement, in relation to uranium mining operations in the Region, '. 
After sub-clause (1), insert the following new subclauses: ( 1  a)  An organisation of persons, whether incorporated or not, shall be taken to have interests that are affected by uranium mining operations in the Region if concern with the environment in the Region is a matter included in the objects or purposes of the organisation or association.  (IB)  Sub-section (Ia) does not apply in relation to a particular happening, incident or transaction occurring as part of uranium mining operations in the Region if the matter occurred before the organisation or association was formed or before the objects or purposes of the association included concern with the environment in the Region. '. 
The Opposition has moved these amendments because it does not favour the legislation as whole; it favours the jurisdiction for this legislation being given to a Federal court. However, we were not successful with our amendment to that effect to the second reading of the Bill. We are now trying to improve some of the weaknesses in the Bill with these amendments. It is clear from the wording of the two amendments that it is our intention to widen access to the jurisdiction by including persons or groups which have a legitimate interest in the effects of uranium mining in the Territory. 
Two proposed amendments to clause 6 were circulated in my name. Those proposed amendments were consequent on an earlier amendment I moved, which was unsuccessful. The second of my proposed amendments was designed to protect private individuals who might have access to the court from running the risk of having to pay costs. But as no private individuals will have access to the court, such an amendment would not be appropriate. Therefore, I do not wish to move my proposed amendments. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  The question now is that the three Bills with which we have dealt in Committee be reported with amendments. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 8 May 1 978: 
What consultative arrangements for children's services exist at present in New South Wales and Victoria. 
What are the details of the role of the Children's Services Sub-Committee of the Australian Capital Territory Consultative Committee on Social Welfare. 
Does the Minister intend to establish similar committees in the States. 
What mechanism exists for the Australian Capital Territory Sub-Committee to consult with community groups interested in children 's services as users or producers. 
Must approval for funds spent on children's services in the Australian Capital Territory go from the Australian Capital Territory to the Director-General of Social Security in New South Wales before obtaining final Ministerial approval. 
Who will make decisions on the allocation of funds in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Is the Minister aware of a great deal of dissatisfaction among deliverers of children 's services because their Child Care Office cannot guarantee funds for more than three months in advance. 
Is the Minister aware that the Belconnen Family Day Care has a waiting list of more than 400 children; if so, can the Minister assure the Belconnen Community Service that priority will be given by the Child Care Office to finding a solution to this problem. 
I present the following petition from 42 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Senators here assembled we the undersigned humbly pray: 
.  That the Government ensures Item 6469 is not removed from the standard Medical Benefits Table. 
That this item under which an estimated 49,145 contributors claimed in the 1976-77 financial year, covers a legal and medically approved procedure. 
That the removalof this item from the schedule would destroy the conceptof universal health insurance, and would have the most serious repercussions for women and their health. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. A petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That withdrawal of Government benefits under schedule 6469 for first trimester abortion would discriminate against and disadvantage the least privileged in our society. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Under no circumstances withdraw Government benefit under schedule 6469 for first trimester abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise tonight to participate in this debate to draw attention to the decision by the Minister for Home Affairs,  Mr Ellicott,  to block funding for the Film Australia production  The Unknown Industrial Prisoner.  I draw this matter to the attention of the Senate this evening because I am concerned, the Opposition is concerned, the industry is concerned and responsible sections of the media are concerned that the Minister has made a bad decision, a decision that cannot be justified, a decision that he has not even sought to justify. The decision to block  The Unknown Industrial Prisoner  project has grave consequences for the Australian film industry. It has even graver consequences for the entire question of public patronage of the arts in this country. 
For the benefit of honourable senators who are not familiar with the project I will inform the Senate of some of the salient facts. Film Australia, which is the film making arm of the Australian Film Commission, had set up the production for a film of the award winning Australian novel by David Ireland,  The Unknown Industrial Prisoner.  The script was written by Alan Seymour, author of the controversial but highly successful play  The One Day of the Year.  The subject of the film was to be the condition of modern industrial man. The specific environment of the film was to be that of workers in an oil plant. The novel exposes and illustrates the alienation, the dehumanising effects, of the sort of work that workers in those industries do. I believe that the content is certainly worthy of attention by Australian audiences generally. 
The budget which Film Australia sought for the film totalled $550,000. This was to be broken down as follows: $425,000 was to be provided over two financial years; some $325,000 was to be provided in 1977-78 and $100,000 in 1978-79. The remaining $125,000 was to be internal costing which covered Film Australia's facilities- cameras, mixing theatre, editing equipment and the Film Australia cast. I turn now to the employment potential of the film. Over 30 speaking parts were to be cast in the film. Crew, including laboratory personnel and musicians, would have been well in excess of 40 people. Only six of these were to have been Film Australia personnel. This means that more than 64 people would have been involved from the freelance side of the industry. Of course, the cancellation of the project has had its greatest effect in the free enterprise or private part of the industry. 
A total of nine assessors read the script and made recommendations to the Australian Film Commission. Not one assessor recommended that the film not go into production. I have here a sample of favourable comments, which I shall not take the time of the Senate to read, but I shall name the people who made them because I think it is significant that they are all highly experienced, competent people in the business of film making. They are: Cyril Branley, Fred Schepisi, Peter Rose, Alan Wardrope, John McQuaid, Tim Reid, Denys Brown, Phillip Adams and Jim McElroy. At the first Australian Film Commission meeting which considered the proposal unanimous approval was given to the project. This approval was passed on to the Minister. 
The Minister then asked the Australian Film Commission to reconsider the commercial viability of the film. Fred Schepisi and Jim McElroy were asked to read and assess the film script from the point of view of commercial viability. They both thought the film should proceed. I think it bears mentioning at this stage that Fred Schepisi 's film  The Chant of Jimmy Blacksmith  only this last weekend has received great acclaim at the Cannes Film Festival in France.  His  competence is a matter of objective fact. At the full meeting of the Australian Film Commission that followed this second assessment by Fred Schepisi and Jim McElroy only one person, Graham Burke, spoke against the project. The voting at the meeting was four to one in favour of the project going ahead. Thus, with a total of nine assessors and four commissionersthat is, 13 people in favour of a project and only one against it- the Minister still found it possible to reject the project. We in the Opposition were very concerned about the Minister's rejection and on the second of this month  Dr Moss  Cass in the House of Representatives asked the Minister to explain his decision. The reply the Minister gave was quite confusing and rather confused and I believe not adequate so far as his ministerial responsibility is concerned. I shall not read the Minister's answer but he said that if Film Australia is going to make a film it should be one for which there is a special reason that Film Australia should make it instead of the private  sector  doing so. He said that a film should be able to achieve popular acclaim at the box office. He also said: 
. I relied entirely on advice which was given to me by the Australian Film Commission or on documents supplied to mc by the Commission ... I have to base my assessment on what is put in front of me. 
The Minister then went on to quote selectively from the assessments which he had before him. He in fact quoted only one, and that was the one unfavourable assessment, in order to attempt to explain his decision to the Parliament. He went on to say that the proposed film did not have what he considered to be a reasonable chance of being commercially acceptable. He stressed this and concluded by quoting from the one assessment which said that the film would not be commercially viable. The Minister's answer raises a number of serious questions. Firstly, what are the responsibilities of the Minister for the administration of the Australian Film Commission Act? After all, the Minister is not a film maker. He cannot be expected to have expertise in these matters. But he has ministerial responsibility and he has guidance and indeed there is a requirement on him to exercise that responsibility as set out in the Australian Film Commission Act. Section 5 of the Australian Film Commission Act clearly sets out the functions of the Commission. The Minister made no reference to these functions when he sought to answer a question in the House of Representatives. Section 5 sets out the functions as follows: 
to encourage, whether by the provision of financial assistance or otherwise, the making, promotion, distribution and exhibition of Australian films: 
subject to the approval of the Minister, to make, promote, distribute and exhibit any films and, in particular- 
films that serve the purpose of a Department of State or an authority of Australia; 
films that deal with matters of national interest to Australia; and 
films that are designed to illustrate or interpret aspects of Australia or of the life and activities of the Australian people; 
It seems to me and to many people who have read this Act and who have tried to understand the Minister's answer in terms of this Act that the Minister has not addressed himself at all to section 5 of the Act. It seems to me also after a fairly careful reading of the novel  The Unknown Industrial Prisoner  that at least in terms of content the Film Australia project did indeed meet the criteria as set out in terms of section 5 of the Australian Film Commission Act. I believe that the subject matter of the film is a matter of national interest to Australia and that a film about modern industrial man would illustrate or interpret aspects of Australia. After all, a large proportion of the Australian work force works in situations like those depicted in the novel and the proposed film would deal with the activities of the Australian people. So at least as far as content is concerned the project should have received serious attention from the responsible Minister. 
The other thing that is clear from a reading of the Act is that it is the role of the Australian Film Commission to advise the Minister not only in respect of section 5 of the Act but generally in respect of the support of Australian films. What was the view of the Australian Film Commission? I have already given the statistics of the number of assessors and film commissioners who were in favour of the project. I should like to read a few extracts from the letter dated 20 April 1 978 from the Australian Film Commission to the Minister in which it dealt with the project in great detail. I shall not read the entire letter, a reading of which makes clear that the Film Commission, after careful and proper consideration of various aspects of the project, including the aspect of commercial viability, had concluded that the project should proceed. For example, in paragraph 3 of the letter to the Minister the Commission states: 
It was generally agreed that Film Australia should not make films which no one will see, and in this regard box office is a measurement of the number of people who see a film. Where films or ideas exist which by a large area of opinion seem significant and well worth making, but which by their nature would be difficult to finance in the private sector, their commercial viability of course remains a factor, but not the only factor. 
Paragraph 4 states: 
The Commission had before it additional statements from  Mr Fred  Schepisi, the Producer/Director of 'The Devil's Playground' and 'The Chant of Jimmy Blacksmith',  Mr James  McElroy, one of the producers of 'Picnic at Hanging Rock' and 'The Last Wave',  Mr Peter  Ross and  Mr Branley  provided an additional comment; . . . 
The Commission was also assured that the suggestions of the assessors for certain script alterations had also been willingly accepted by the writer, and that most of these had already been included. 
The Commission felt that with the impressive nature of the idea and the quality of the script it remained satisfied that the usual requirements which it has in mind in looking at the National Program were met. 
The letter then goes on to deal with, and indeed to present, the one unfavourable assessment which was the assessment of  Mr Graham  Burke. I think the Commission very fairly placed that in its entirety before the Minister, but it concluded by stating: 
The Comission. with  Mr Burke  voting against the proposal, decided to confirm its decision to seek your approval for the project. 
The question to be asked is: Why, in view of this letter from the Australian Film Commission, in view of the overwhelming support from all but one of the competent persons who were engaged to assess the film, did the Minister decide to refuse funding? The Minister, in the answer which I quoted this evening from  Hansard,  said that he was taking the advice of the Australian Film Commission; but clearly he was not taking that advice because if he were taking that advice he could not have come to the decision to which he in fact came. Then the question to be asked is: What advice was he taking? If he was going outside the body which has the statutory responsibility to give the Minister advice on these matters and seeking alternative advice, what was the source of this alternative advice? The Minister does not state what it is and I think he has a responsibility to state what it is. 
Why does the Minister insist in raising the straw man of commercial viability? He presents that as if it were the only criterion involved in reaching his decision; yet clearly it would be properly only one of the many criteria which have been taken into account. Ultimately it is the only reason he gives. One must ask: Does the Minister understand the Act that he is administering? Had he familiarised himself with section 5 of the Act, which sets out the functions of the Commission, before he reached the decision? Why does he not give proper reasons for his decision, as indeed he is required to do under section 8 of the Australian Film Commission Act? Of course the consequences of this decision for the industry in the short term are very grave. I have given an indication of the number of people who would have had employment as a result of the making of the film. Honourable senators will, I hope, be aware of the extremely high levelperhaps 80 per cent to 90 per cent- of unemployment in the acting industry and associated industries. 
Yet the Minister proceeded with the decision which in this instance will deny 64 people employment. Since the Minister announced his decision, all major guilds and unions have expressed objections to stopping the making of the film. Telegrams and letters have been sent by the Australian Theatrical Employees Association, Actors Equity, the Musicians Union, the Australian Writers Guild, the Australian Cinema.tographers Society, the Film Editors Guild, the Producers and Directors Guild and independent producers. The Minister has not issued a reply to these telegrams and letters, apart from the unsatisfactory answer given in the Parliament. A delegation representing the industry, including delegates from some of the bodies I have just named, visited the Minister last week and asked him to reconsider his decision. But their mission was apparently quite unsuccessful. The script writer of the film, the famous Australian playwright, Alan Seymour, in an article in the Melbourne  Age  on 1 May again raised the question why the Minister reached the decision that he did. He said: 
In every project there is an element of risk, especially when audience taste is changing so rapidly. Is that the key? Is the Minister, not conversant with the new developments in this specialised field, basing his decision on out-of-date terms of reference? 
The implication in his veto is that the film makers have erred in their judgment. Perhaps it is he who is the prisoner of no longer relevant ideas? 
He asked: 
Why, by the way, must the film be a hit at the box-office? We, none of use, want to make films that nobody goes to see. However, Film Australia, as the central Government-funded film-making institution in the country, is expected, indeed encouraged, to experiment, to innovate, to take risks that more economically oriented companies might be reluctant to take. Every society needs such creative innovation if it is not to stagnate. 
My own view is that the nostalgia cycle in Australian cinema has become so enervating that exactly what is needed is a hard-hitting, penetrating, above all, contemporary movie. 
So his article continued. I have said that the Minister's refusal raises the question of political censorship. I made that statement outside the Parliament and I would like to explain what I mean by it. One of the reasons that I have raised this question is that when the Minister chose to quote from the assessments of the script in his answer in the House of Representatives he quoted the one unfavourable assessment- and it was the one assessment that was cast in political termswhich was critical of the subject matter from a political view, which spoke of the film having appeal only to middle class socialists and so forth. I do not think it was coincidental that it was the only assessment that the Minister chose to quote. 
Despite the ministerial discretion which is indeed in the Act, ministerial responsibilities are involved in this matter. I believe it is the responsibility of the Minister to listen to the Australian Film Commission, to judge the assessments that come before him fairly and to give a proper explanation in terms appropriate to the Act. It is not the role of government or of individual Ministers to become involved in a personal way in the business of making artistic value judgments. It is their business to make decisionsresponsible decisions- based on proper advice. It is not the business of Ministers to treat publicly supported agencies set up to stimulate creative activities as if they were political propaganda machines; nor is it their business to treat them as an opportunity to exercise a personal whim. Has the Minister,  Mr Ellicott,  done either or indeed both of these things in relation to  The Unknown Industrial Prisoner"]  In answer to that question, I would say that it is not clear. I do not say that the Minister has certainly done so, that he has engaged in an act of political censorship or has acted out of personal whim. It is not clear but I say that he has behaved in such a way- arrogantly and irresponsibly- as to cause these questions to be properly raised inside and outside of Parliament. The Minister is unwilling either to explain his decision or to review it. As I said, a delegation representing most sectors of the industry came to see him last week but he has refused to budge. In this case I would say that the Minister seems to have adopted a stubborn rather than a strong stance. 
I am aware that the business of providing public support for creative activities, such as film making or the arts, is a sensitive business. In moving into the area of value judgments, any government is leaving itself open to criticism. Criticism, justified and unjustified, is always forthcoming and it certainly was so during the period of the Whitlam Administration in matters of the arts, as well as others. In a pluralistic democratic society such as ours there will never be overall consensus on matters of taste. A film that is exciting or enriching to some might appear trivial or irrelevant to others. Because it is such a sensitive area, it seems to me that the Minister responsible has a particular responsibility to follow scrupulously the terms of the Act under which he operates and to give careful, objective and balanced consideration to the advice that he receives. I contend that the Minister,  Mr Ellicott,  has done neither of these things. In his answer to  Dr Cass  in the other place, he made no reference to section 5 of the Act nor did he present a balanced picture of the assessments that he received from the Australian Film Commission. 
I raise this matter tonight because I believe the Minister owes the Parliament and the public a proper explanation. The immediate consequences of his decision are very damaging to the Australian film industry. But the long-term consequences of a Minister involving himself in a personal, idiosyncratic way in the disbursement of public moneys for creative projects are even more serious. If such behaviour were to continue, public support for the arts very quickly would become government control of the arts. Government control of the arts is antithetical to democracy and I would point out to honourable senators that government control of the arts exists only in countries that have totalitarian political systems. The Opposition does not want this sort of control of the arts; I believe that the Australian public does not want this sort of control of the arts. I expect that the Government does not want this sort of totalitarian control of the arts. I hope the Minister,  Mr Ellicott,  does not want it and I hope he will review his decision about  The Unknown Industrial Prisoner,  and indeed his whole approach to the Australian Film Commission, in the light of responsible democratic values which are very well expressed in the Australian Film Commission Act. 
Ultimately that is the only reason why I am raising the matter tonight. I believe that the Minister did not make his decision properly, that is, he did not make it after referring to the Act; I believe that he should have done so. I do not see that there should be any overwhelming obstacle to his going back to the Act- to section 5 of the Act- and looking again at those nine favorable assessments. I would hope that he would respond in a positive way to all the representations that have been made to him by the industry. I would hope that he has also been receiving representations in this matter from Government members. Certainly, the question has been raised in the Senate. I hope that the matter is not over; I hope that there is an opportunity for a responsible and proper reconsideration of the whole question. I think all Australians would agree at this stage that the Australian film industry has developed very encouragingly in the last few years. I think we are all very pleased with its success overseas and I hope that the Minister at this stage will not act in a way that would cause that development to be thwarted in any way. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security which refers to the recent arrest on the day of the funeral of  Sir Robert  Menzies of  Mr Ronald  Orbinski. Has the Minister ascertained whether  Mr Orbinski  was a pensioner or beneficiary of the Department of Social Security or was entitled to a social security benefit? Has she ascertained whether help had been offered either by welfare workers in her Department or the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs? Has she further inquired whether help was given to  Mr Orbinski  through the homeless persons' assistance program of her Department. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Last week I asked the Minister a question about the terms and the extent of the inquiry into an ethnic television channel. At the time the Minister was unable to inform me about the matter. This morning I heard on an FM radio  broadcast an  announcement that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications had decided to establish a new channel for ethnic television and to extend ethnic radio throughout Australia. Will the Minister confirm this statement? Will he now inform the Senate to what extent groups and individuals involved in ethnic broadcasting were consulted by the Government before it reached this decison? 
I raise for discussion in the Senate today the following matter: 
The failure of the Government to maintain the independence, objectivity and high standard of national broadcasting. 
This is not the first time that this matter has been raised in the Senate in recent years. Various attacks by the Government on the Australian Broadcasting Commission and its functions are already on record in  Hansard.  They include such attacks as the 1 5 per cent cut in funds in the first Lynch Budget, the imposition of staff ceilings and the staff wastage policy, what I might refer to as the  Sir Henry  Bland fiasco, the changes to the legislation affecting the ABC which have weakened its independence, the introduction through legislation of a Special Broadcasting Service in terms which in the future will allow the Special Broadcasting Service to encroach upon the national broadcasting functions of the ABC, and the removal for blatantly political reasons of the ethnic radio station 3ZZ by the simple expedient of refusing to supply funds. 
The Opposition raises this matter again today because the position of the Australian Broadcasting Commission as the national broadcasting service of this country continues to be weakened by a combination of hostile government policy and what can be termed as self-censorship by senior management within the ABC. Although a new Minister-  Mr Tony  Staley- has been appointed to take charge of the ABC and has spoken out in support of the ABC, apparently he has done nothing to stop the inefficiency of the staff ceilings policy, to stop the reduction in funds, to stop the restriction of services and to stop the drain of creative people from the ABC. It appears to us that he has done nothing to implement those acceptable recommendations of the Green report. 
The functions of the ABC, as set out in the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, are extremely important. The ABC is a crucial part of the fabric of our democratic system. Section 59 of the Act states: 
Subject to this Act, the Commission shall provide, and shall broadcast or televise from transmitting stations made available by the Austraiian Telecommunications Commission adequate and comprehensive programs and shall take in the interests of the community all such measures as, in the opinion of the Commission, are conducive to the full development of suitable broadcasting and television programs. 
The Commission is required to broadcast daily from all national broadcasting stations regular sessions of news and information relating to current events within the Commonwealth and other parts of the world, to employ an adequate staff, both in the Commonwealth and overseas countries, for the purpose of collecting news and information to be broadcast, to endeavour to establish and utilise in such manner as it thinks desirable in order to convey the greatest benefit on broadcasting or television groups of musicians for the rendition of orchestral, choral and band music of high quality and so forth. Many other requirements are placed upon the ABC. 
It appears to the Opposition and, I think, to members of the community generally that the ABC has been hobbled in its ability to carry out these crucial functions by what ultimately results from government policy. I mention briefly that there is an overwhelming necessity for the ABC to extend the services that it has established over the years. For example, there are many country areas which are not properly serviced by the ABC in respect of either radio of television broadcasting. We in the Oppostion find this totally unacceptable. Citizens living in remote areas and in country towns contribute through taxation to the running of the ABC just as do citizens living in cities. Yet the access of citizens living in remote areas and country towns to the services of the ABC is totally unsatisfactory in many cases and very unsatisfactory in other cases. 
For example, in Alice Springs, which is an important centre of population in the outback area, there is no local content on television. One of the constant sources of complaint that we hear is that the equipment provided for the ABC now is substandard and leads to unsatisfactory or inadequate broadcasting in many cases. I cite what I presume to be an illustration of this inadequacy of equipment the recent decision by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to go outside the ABC and to employ a private television production company to produce a recent address to the nation. This was an unprecedented decision. I have asked questions about the reasons for it. I have not received answers as yet, but it would seem that the Prime Minister considered the facilities of the ABC not to be up to standard and that his response was to go outside the Commission rather than improve the facilities. 
I come now to the most serious charge which I wish to make in the course of this debate against the Government's management of the ABC and the conduct of the ABC generally, that is, the development of political bias. Traditionally, the ABC has had a very high credibility among the citizens of this nation for reporting objectively matters of importance. However, I believe that that reputation is no longer justified. I would like to describe at some length why I make this charge. For as long as public affairs reporting has been allowed to develop in the ABC there have been charges, almost always from conservatives, that the ABC is biased, that it is dominated by left wing influence and that it harbours sinister communist cells. I am reminded of a statement in this chamber along those lines by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  shortly after the election of the Fraser Government. He said, that the ABC was full of left wing propagandists and that he intended to clean it up. 
The program  Four Corners,  now in its eighteenth year, was the first to attract controversy because it broke new ground in Australian journalism. It was consistently innovative and I think most honourable senators would agree that it brought depth, maturity and respectability to television journalism. Then came  This Day Tonight  and more ground was broken. The more successful these programs were in exploring sensitive issues and increasing public awareness, the more strident became the critics, with conservative politicians leading the way. The impact of these critics has been most noticeable since the 1975 federal election. After that campaign ABC reporter Richard Carleton was forced to leave the ABC, not by command but by attrition. After the 1977 election campaign the removal of another ABC current affairs reporter, George Negus, was more blatant. Negus was unceremoniously removed from Canberra. He was not sacked outright but he suffered the indignity of seeing his name excluded from staff rosters and from pre-season promotion of  TDT  this year. So he left. I think it is common knowledge that both Carleton and Negus, with their style of persistent and relevant questioning, had upset the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, although I understand that the current Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Tony  Staley, has protested that this was not the case. 

 TDT now offers what can fairly be described as an extremely thin veneer of specialist political cover through the current reporter for the Parliament, John Penlington. John Penlington of course is a reporter whose prestige is high, and deservedly high. However, he has been given what must be a nearly full time job of running the Canberra news bureau without serving  TDT  as well and the end result of this is reflected in the figures. In the months of February and March 1977 George Negus made 16 political reports from Canberra. For the same period of this year John Penlington has made seven appearances on  TDT.  I point out that if anything political activity in Canberra has been more worthy of interest this year than it was last year. If that trend continues- there is no reason to believe otherwise- TDT will have lost more than half of its national capital content. The value of having a full time political commentator of course is that he develops a knowledge and expertise in that field and one could expect his questions and comments to be informed and to the point. If political content is to come from reporters outside Canberra, for example, in Sydney or Melbourne, or from a part time reporter in Canberra, the risk is that these reports will be superficial and lightweight. One can only assume that this is what ABC senior management, the Prime Minister and the Government want. 
George Negus was removed from Canberra under the guise of streamlining the  TDT  public affairs operation. For the first time in 10 years, at a time when political awareness and knowledge of politics are higher than ever before, it suddenly becomes unnecessary for  TDT  to have a full time correspondent in the national capital. I also remind the Senate that some time before George Negus was removed from Canberra ABC management, by dropping altogether a program called  State of the Nation,  showed its anxiety not to displease the Government. At that time  State of the Nation  was the only specialist political television program being aired on any of the four television networks. Its budget was almost insignificant and its elimination represented almost no cost saving to the ABC. To what extent such actions have come about as a result of direct pressure from the Fraser Government and to what extent they are the result of self-censorship and of management over zealously interpreting the wishes of the Government, is not entirely clear. Certainly during the last election campaign there was at least one example to direct pressure successfully being applied by the Fraser office. 
On 26 October 1977 the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  appeared on  TDT on  request for a half hour phone-in program. The following day, 27 October, the Prime Minister announced the election date. A few days later the Fraser office began to pressure  TDT  management for a similar program of equal duration.  TDT  executives apparently resisted the pressure on two grounds; firstly, that earlier in the year  Mr Fraser, Mr Lynch  and Bob Hawke had each conducted phone-in programs on TDT of 35 minutes, 60 minutes and 36 minutes duration respectively, without the same facility being provided to the Opposition Leader. Secondly,  Mr Whitlam  had been invited to discuss a specific issue which was then current; his credibility as Leader of the Opposition and for which there was no onus on  TDT  to provide a balance. Within days, however,  TDT  was informed by David Barnett,  Mr Fraser  's Press secretary, that it would be accommodating  Mr Fraser  for half an hour on 15 November, two days before Labor's campaign opening. Several hours later senior management confirmed Barnett 's edict. 
Another example of what I can interpret only as political bias was more recent and that was the refusal of equal time to the current Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Bill  Hayden, following an address to the nation by the Prime Minister on the occasion of his leaving on a trade mission to Japan. Again no satisfactory reason was given for this although the request did go to the Commissioners themselves. That kind of provision of equal time should be a matter of policy which should be implemented by management. Earlier this year I asked a question on notice to which I recently received an answer regarding the ratio of appearances of Federal Labor politicians and 
Federal Government politicians on Tasmanian ABC. The answer stated that there had been 30 appearances by Federal Government politicians and eight appearances by Federal Opposition politicians. Again one wonders what has happened to the guidelines regarding the balance and objectivity in presenting to the Australian public, and in this case to the Tasmanian public, a fair coverage of Federal politics. 
Probably the biggest threat to the ABC is the Government's wastage policy. That is the policy whereby a certain reduction in staff must be achieved. It cannot be achieved by sacking permanent officers so it has to be achieved by not replacing officers who leave through retirement or ill-health or to take a job elsewhere. Wastage is not an efficient way of streamlining an operation like the ABC. The loss of creativity and experience through this policy is severe. Even before the wastage policy was introduced the clerk to program-maker ratio was seven to one. Presumably that ratio is now even worse. Another comment I make about this policy is that it has led to harsh employment practices with regard to temporary staff. There have been a number of instances of temporary employees being put off before they are due for permanency. There is a particular case of a woman named Grace Gorman, a temporary employee, who has been sacked after four years employment in the ABC with no rights of appeal even though she has contributed to the superannuation fund during this time. I believe that it is totally unacceptable for any government with a policy of fair employment practices to tolerate a situation of this kind within a statutory body. 
I think the most serious effect of the wastage policy is the drain of creative and experienced people away from the ABC. The tragedy for the ABC is that in the area of program making it has invested time and money for years developing television and radio expertise of producers, directors, film editors and so on. That investment is being rapidly dissipated. Staff losses are escalating. The more creativity is lost the more morale declines and of course the more morale declines the more the creative drain accelerates. One example of what is happening can be found in the cine-camera area. In the Sydney branch of the ABC there are 28 positions for cinecameramen. Only 16 of these are currently filled by qualified cameramen; the rest have been filled by assistants on higher duties. In the Sydney news department alone recently six of the seven cameramen were assistants on higher duties. Cameramen with as much as 15 or 16 years experience are leaving out of sheer frustration. 
If we look at  TDT  and  Four Corners  we see that almost all the original reporters and producers- the real innovators of those programs- have gone, not just from public affairs but also from the ABC altogether. I shall name some people involved in this phenomenon. They are: Stuart Littlemore, Michael Willesee, Gerald Stone, Peter Couchman, Peter Luck and producers Tony Ferguson, Don Simmonds, David Salter and Lachie Shaw. The kind of experience that these people represent cannot be found overnight; it takes years to build up. That building process it seems is just not taking place any more. Experience is being lost and little effort is being made to replace it. The end result is a weak and discredited ABC.  TDT  is a prime example of what has happened to a program that is forced to function under these conditions.  TDT  has lost its former high credibility as a current affairs program and is now a pale shadow of what it once was. Clearly unsatisfactory staff management policies prevail in the ABC at the moment. As I have suggested, this situation has arisen because of government policies and also, to an extent apparently because of senior management staffing policies. 
This brings me to the question of the position of the staff-elected commissioner of the ABC which is currently held by Marius Webb. During the course of this debate I seek an assurance from the Minister that the Government intends, at the termination of  Mr Webb's  period of appointment, to continue with the principle established during the period of the Labor Government of having one commissioner, out of the total of II, elected by staff members. It is quite clear that the ABC has enormous staff problems. It would be totally unacceptable for the staff to have no voice at all on the Commission. 
One area in which there is a serious problem and which, as far as I can understand, has received no attention from the Government relates to discrimination against female employees within the ABC. A detailed report on this subject was made last year. It has not been tabled in the Parliament. I have certainly seen it and I presume that Government supporters have had access to it. This report documents a serious case of sex-based discrimination within the ABC. Only two women are members of the Commission. The Fraser Government introduced an amendment to provide for two women commissioners. One hopes that in future appointments that very small number will be increased and that the interests of women staff members will be reflected in the choice of commissioners. 
I hope that I and my colleagues who will be participating in this debate will make out a case that the Minister will have to answer. I hope that we will make out a case that the ABC has lost credibility because of what amounts to government policy. The time has come for the Government to take a serious look at the role and function of the ABC in our political system. I believe it is time for a thorough investigation, perhaps even a royal commission, into the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I believe that the following sorts of questions should be investigated. The first one relates to the role of commissioners of the ABC and their method of appointment. I believe it is undesirable that the appointment of commissioners to the ABC has become purely a party political matter. I do not believe that that results in a balanced body appropriate to concern itself with the policy matters of the ABC. I think that other ways of appointing commissioners should be invesitgated. I certainly think that the principle of a staff elected commissioner should be embodied in legislation. 
Another matter is the role and the length of service of the General Manager. I point out to the Senate that the current General Manager of the ABC,  Mr Talbot  Duckmanton, has been in that position for 12 years, whereas with the British Broadcasting Corporation changes are made to the comparable position every seven years. That matter should be considered by the Government. The staffing policies of the ABC need thorough investigation. There seems to be a need for much greater devolution of decision making to the production level and for a degree of worker participation which does not exist at the moment. Obviously a need exists for a clear statement to be made on a non-discriminatory and equitable employment policy within the ABC. 
The funding of the ABC is an annual problem. I believe that the Government should investigate the desirability of triennial funding and of guaranteeing a level of funding over the years. These two changes would bring a measure of real independence to the ABC. lt is totally unrealistic at this stage of government policy and principles about funding public bodies to expect any statutory body that has to depend on an annual budgetary allocation to act with true independence from the government of the day. 
I believe that program priorities also need urgent review. Clearly a change is needed in program priorities if the ABC is to produce high quality, diverse programs with a high degree of 
Australian content. I believe they are the sorts of programs that the community desires. There is the overall desirability of removing national broadcasting from blatant political interference, from which I believe it has suffered during the period of the Fraser Government. I think a number of legislative measures concerning the appointment of commissioners, the role of the General Manager and the source and nature of funding could achieve that removal from party political interference. 
As I said at the opening of my remarks, a new Minister has recently been appointed to have responsibility for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. He has said a number of things with which the Opposition would concur. I wish to read to the Senate some of the remarks made by the Minister,  Mr Staley,  on the program  Broadband  on 21 March of this year.  Mr Staley  said: 
 I believe that the ABC is so important to life in this country that I can hardly feel that life in Australia would be worthwhile without the ABC . . . 
He went on to say:  1 think that to have a good Australian society we need to have a good ABC, a good, strong, viable, ABC which encourages a critical approach which, as well as providing all the other sorts of national services which it does provide. 
He went on further to say:   . . I believe in an ABC which is free of political interference and an ABC which can vigorously debate controversial issues in the Australian community as well as providing the national sort of services that so many Australians enjoy. 
I refer to those statements of the Minister,  Mr Tony  Staley, and I say again that I find myself in agreement with them, and the Opposition finds itself in agreement with them. Our argument with the Government in relation to the ABC is not in these statements of principle expressed by  Mr Staley  but in what has happened.  Mr Staley  has made these statements and, ironically enough, he made them on the program  Broadband  which is one of the few programs which deals in any depth at all with controversial issues or current political issues. He made them on the program  Broadband  shortly after the time allowed for that program had been halved, with no proper explanation being given for that action. Despite his giving tacit support to the program by appearing on it, the time allowed for the  Broadband  program or this type of in depth political program has not been increased. 
If the Minister does believe, as we in the Opposition believe, that the ABC is a crucial part of Australian life, if he does believe that the ABC should be independent and should be able to handle controversial issues and should offer high standard programming of all kinds on radio and television, what does he intend to do about those beliefs? I hope that the Minister for Education in replying to my remarks will give us some indication, because so far all we have had from  Mr Staley  is this statment of principle. We have had no action. 
Another Budget is forthcoming. At this stage we have no indication that the financial inadequacies from which the ABC has suffered in the last couple of years will be remedied. We have had only a very modest and almost insignificant change in the staff ceiling for the ABC- a change which will allow for a net gain of a mere 20 officers. We have had no suggestion from the Minister that he is looking properly at the problems of management and at the problems of inequitable staffing policies; we have had no expressions of concern from him about the reduction in Australian content, about the loss of the ABC of very popular Australian programs, which were developed through ABC talent and which have now been taken up by commercial stations. We have had no statement of principle, other than his remarks on the  Broadband  program, about the role that this Government sees for current affairs reporting, such as the kind that the television program  This Day Tonight  used to do and the television program  Four Corners  still does. 
We are seeking in the course of this debate such a statement. The sittings of this Parliament are shortly to conclude and these very serious questions remain unanswered. I put it to the Minister and to the Government that they will be responsible if national broadcasting in this country erodes to the stage where it has no credibility whatsoever. I look forward to hearing the remarks of government supporters and the Minister during this debate. I urge the Minister to address himself to the very serious issues that I have raised. 
My question to the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  refers to the statement he brought down in the Senate last night foreshadowing legislation to abolish compulsory membership of student associations at the Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education. I ask the Minister: Can he explain what circumstances have caused him to make a decision that totally overrides the views and the wishes of the Council of the Australian National University which considered that the retention of compulsory membership of student organisations was desirable and that adequate procedures for exemption on the ground of conscience already existed? I refer to a letter in the  Canberra Times  this week on 3 1 May in which Colin Plowman, the Assistant Vice-Chancellor of the ANU, expressed that view, although I imagine that the Minister, being the Minister responsible, would be familiar with the view of the Council on this matter. Can the Minister explain why he has been persuaded by a handful of members of the student Liberal organisation to intrude in this unprecedented way on the autonomy of the Australian National University and apparently all other Australian Universities? 
Can the Minister for Social Security confirm that it is still the Government's intention not to impose a means test on family allowances? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister noted the concern expressed in the Schools Commission Report for the Triennium 1976-78, over the grave housing problems facing teachers in country areas, and the concomitant difficulties in finding teachers to staff country schools. 
Will the Minister take action to ensure that adequate funds are made available for the provision of suitable housing for teachers in country areas. 
) Will the Minister take action to ensure that the housing is at a rental and of a standard to act as a positive incentive for experienced teachers to transfer to areas which are at present difficult to staff. 

 Senator Carrick: The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The recommendations of the Schools Commission in its June 1975 Report covering the 1976-78 triennium were based on a presumption of the likelihood of continuing real rapid growth in the level of Commonwealth education expenditure. On that basis the Commission recommended to the Government that $20m be provided for teacher housing over the triennial period. As you will recall in September 1975 the then Minister for Education requested revised recommendations for 1976 which the Whitlam Government had decided would be a year of no growth. In its response to this the Commission presented a brief Report in October 1975 which stated: 
Under the guidelines laid down by the Government, the proposals to support teacher housing, residential accommodation for students and a loans guarantee scheme for non-government school buildings, are initiatives which cannot be proceeded with in 1 976. ' 
Although subsequent Government guidelines have given the Commission more scope for flexibility in its recommendations the Commission has not recommended to the Government in any of its later reports that Federal funds be made available specifically for teacher housing. 
The States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1977 and earlier Acts permit the application of capital grants by States to the provision of housing or other residential accommodation for teachers (or other staff) outside of the capital cities. The Commonwealth has appropriated 5367,144.000 to the States in 1978 specifically for government school programs and $139,443,000 (December 1977 prices) of this amount is for projects of a capital nature. These grants are in addition to substantially increased funds available to the States by way of general revenue grants made under the tax reimbursement arrangements. Such funds could be applied to teacher housing if States deemed such needs to have sufficient priority in their programs. 
Whilst I appreciate the importance of adequate teacher housing in country areas I must point out that State Governments are responsible for the administration of primary and secondary education in government schools. This responsibility includes the staffing of these schools and remuneration and arrangements made for staff. 
Whilst I agree that adequate teacher housing in country areas could only assist the development of a more experienced and stable teaching force in such areas this is a responsibility which State Governments could, in fact, meet through the application of current Commonwealth funds. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Have any approaches been made to the  Chairman  or other members of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal within the last few months suggesting changes in the points system for Australian content on television? If so, will the Minister inform the Senate what has been suggested and what response has been made? 
I endorse  Senator Missen  's remarks about this report. I repeat that the situation, which the investigation revealed with regard to the availability of readable updated legislation, Acts, statutory rules and territory ordinances and regulations as amended, is most unsatisfactory. I also endorse the remarks of  Senator Missen  to the effect that a continuing review of this area is necessary.  Senator Missen  referred to the urgency of the inquiry and the very short space of time allowed for it. He also pointed out that many serious issues surrounding the unsatisfactory situation remain to be investigated. I take this opportunity to endorse  Senator Missen  's remarks with regard to the support of the secretariat in bringing the report before the Parliament in such a short period of time. We look forward to the implementation of the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Publications, particularly with respect to the ongoing review of this matter. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted. 

 Senator Sir REGINALD WRIGHT (Tasmania) by leave- I give my strongest support to what has been put to us by  Senator Missen.  I regard it as an inexcusable dereliction of duty, on the part of those who have the administration of the law, that the law as printed in a final form is not available to members of the public and many sections of the professional world who have to advise them. It is one of the essential arteries of democracy, and the neglect of it leads to all the confusion, mistakes and substitution of administrative decisions for law. I think that one of the most imperative things in the publishing activities of the Government is to bring up to date the statutes and regulations of this Parliament. I see with dismay and sadness a substitution of a whole mountain of immaterial printing that should be relegated to the sixteenth stage for the legislation of this Parliament which should have first priority, not because it is necessarily important, but if we make law it is important that the people we represent know what laws we make by which they are bound. 

 Senator MISSEN (Victoria)-by leave-I thank the two senators for their support and their remarks. I hope that more will be said about this matter. I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
This clause deals with the abolition of bulk billing for optometrists. The Australian Labor Party indicates its opposition to the abolition of bulk billing in the case of optometrists, using the same argument which it used to oppose the abolition of bulk billing generally. 
Again I rise to oppose clause 9, which deals with the guidelines for medical and hospital benefits plans. We oppose the concept with which the guidelines will be dealing. As I said in my speech during the second reading debate, we also oppose the practice of bringing in guidelines and changes by regulation rather than by legislation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 10 agreed to. 
Clause 1 1 (Interpretation). 
I wish to register again our opposition to clause 8, which deals with deductibles. I will restate briefly our reasons for opposing the deductibles. Firstly, they erode the universality of health cover and, secondly, they are an inequitable redistribution of health costs away from those who are less often sick to those who are most often sick. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Guidelines for medical and hospital benefits plans). 
The Opposition opposes this clause, which abolishes bulk billing by private funds. I would seek explanation at this stage of the debate of the objectives of the Government in abolishing bulk billing for the private funds. The Government is making the case that by abolishing bulk billing it will be saving expenditure.  Senator Baume  emphasised the need at all costs to reduce expenditure on health services. As the private funds do not incur any public expenditure in operating the bulk billing system, we are interested to know in what way the Government expects to save money from this provision. We are interested to know also why the Government, which is apparently so dedicated to freedom of choice for health funds, will not allow a fund which desires to retain a bulk billing system to do so. 
I wish to voice the Australian Labor Party's opposition to this clause. Again, it is concerned with allowing funds to operate optional deductibles. I think I have explained the reasons for our opposition. I would just say again that, contrary to what the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has just said, it seems that by allowing optional deductibles, universality will be eroded. For example, if a person opts to pay the first $200 and a lower contribution rate under this scheme and, when the time comes, does not have that $200, although he has entered into this scheme of his own choice, he is uninsured. That seems to us to be an erosion. The other problem is that funds may opt out of paying for certain procedures. A person who is insured by a fund may need to have a procedure undertaken and will either have to have it done uninsured or, as has been stated in the other place, declare himself or herself no longer to be a member of that fund and fall back on to Medibank. That, of course, does not affect universality but I think it is an anomalous way to conduct a dual system of private and public health insurance funds. 
I rise simply to indicate our opposition to clause 6. 1 will not speak on this clause as it introduces the question of optional deductibles, which I have canvassed previously. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Conditions of registration). 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
What is the average amount of career counselling which students in Australian schools are currently receiving. 
The Opposition has no objection to two of the Bills and I do not propose to make any further comment on them. However, we have the gravest of objections to the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1978 and the National Health Amendment Bill 1978. I shall explain those objections in the course of this debate. At the outset, in respect to the Health Insurance Amendment Bill, I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to exclude (a) reduction of the level of benefits from 85 per cent to 70 per cent of the scheduled fee, (b) the abolition of bulk billing for all except eligible pensioners and their dependants and (c) the introduction of optional deductible schemes, and be re-introduced immediately to include the other measures '. 
In respect of the National Health Amendment Bill, I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to exclude (a) the concept of optional deductibles, (b) the banning of bulk billing arrangements for medical services, other than those provided to eligible pensioners and their dependants and (c) an increase from $2 to $2.50 in the patient contribution for a pharmaceutical item, and that the Bill be re-introduced immediately to include the other measures'. 
The Opposition opposes clause 3 which deals with the definition of deductibles and the introduction with deductibles of what are called approved medical benefit plans within the meaning of section 72E of the National Health Act. I think I indicated in my speech during the second reading debate that we are opposed to deductibles of any kind because they will place a greater contribution burden on those who are more frequently ill and a lesser contribution burden on those who are less frequently ill. I was very interested to hear a Government senatorSenator Baume- elaborate on what was meant by 'deductibles'.  I  must say that my worst fears were confirmed, that the Government has in mind a system whereby there will be two classes of people- those who, according to  Senator Baume,  experience good health, and are to be rewarded, and those who do not experience good health. This clarification is very helpful for us in the Opposition because that is exactly what we are opposed to. We are opposed to rewarding those who have very few health problems and punishing those, by way of a higher contribution and so forth, who are frequently ill. 
We do not believe in general that people choose to be ill or choose to be well, although we thoroughly support community education programs which will lead people to adopt healthier life styles. But it is quite clear from the remarks of  Senator Baume  that people who are rarely ill will be rewarded. I think that the Minister for Social Security used the expression 'no claim bonus'. I must state again most clearly our objection to this system, and it is that we believe it to be inequitable. We believe that the burden of paying for health costs should be spread equitably through the community, and we are totally opposed to the idea of rewarding those who are fortunate enough not to need frequent medical services. We also are very concerned that we still do not know where we are going with regard to deductibles. The Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  in a paper dealing with this subject earlier said: 
Unfortunately, no information is available to determine exactly what size of deductible within tolerable limits would begin to have an important effect on the demand for medical care. 

 Senator Baume also said that the Government did not have an adequate data base for many of the changes that it proposes. In our view these changes should not be implemented until information is available. The other comment I must make in regard to deductibles concerns the confusion about the purpose of deductibles and the way the system will be administered. I again quote from the comments which the Minister for Health made on 8 June in the other place. He said something similar to what  Senator Baume  said tonight. He said: 
Those people who choose not to smoke, those people who choose not to drink alcohol and those people who choose to adopt a fairly sensible life style could use a deductible scheme. How on earth a health insurance fund could administer such a proposal I do not know, . . . 
The Government is moving into an area which is supposed to be cost-saving, although we have no evidence of that, and the Minister himself is admitting that he has no idea as to how a deductible scheme should be administered. I repeat that we are totally opposed to this confused, inequitable and unresearched proposal. 
Clause 11 increases the prescribed amount payable by patients for pharmaceutical items on the schedule from $2 to $2.50. We are opposed to this clause because of the hardship it will impose on low income families and individuals. We are opposed to it also because we do not have from the Government any indication of the economic arguments in favour of the increase. We feel that it may lead to situations where people who need certain pharmaceutical products will not get them because they cannot afford them. This harsh and unjustified increase we believe undermines the original aim of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, which was to provide basic pharmaceuticals for all people who need them. 
I wish to voice the opposition of the Labor Party to this clause which reduces the benefit from 85 per cent to 75 per cent and increases the maximum gap for those doctors charging the scheduled fee from $5 to $10 per item. From what has been said by Opposition senators in the debate to date, it is obvious that we are particularly concerned with the effect of these increases on low income patients. I should like to point out at this stage also that these increases in the cost the patient will have to pay are payable on every separate item. So if a person has an operation and a number of items are involved, this increased charge will be charged for each item. Therefore the overall cost could be very high. 
It is worth pointing out too that although the Government has claimed in a sense that is technically true that it has not increased the Medibank levy, it is by these means increasing the cost of health services to levy patients as well as to everybody else. We are concerned also that only those people who are eligible for pensioner medical services will be excluded from the reduction to 75 per cent of the scheduled fee. Again I point out that there are many hundreds of thousands of social security beneficiaries in Australia who are not eligible for pensioner medical services but who may in fact be in a worse position economically than such pensioners. I include of course, those many low income families who are not beneficiaries but are in employment, or have one member of the household in employment but who are suffering severe economic hardship and will be very detrimentally affected. I wish to register the strongest of opposition to these two parts of clause 5, that which reduces the benefit from 85 per cent to 75 per cent of the schedule fee and that which increases the maximum patient contribution from $5 to $ 10. 
-Clause 7 abolishes bulk billing for Medibank patients. I explained in the second reading debate on the earlier Bill which abolished bulk billing for private funds why the 
Opposition favours bulk billing and strongly opposes the abolition of bulk billing for Medibank. During the course of this debate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and  Senator Baume  have emphasised that the abolition of bulk billing will hold health costs down. I submit that at this stage we still have no evidence that that is the case. Certainly we have evidence that there has been fraud, but it seems to the Opposition that a more reasonable way in which to proceed would be to develop ways of cutting out fraud rather than abolishing the whole system which has so many merits in terms of administrative efficiency and so forth. We are not convinced that the substitute system which will be made available, the 'pay doctor' cheque system, will be free of fraud. 
It appears to us that the Government is proceeding with this abolition of bulk billing out of ideological prejudice rather than out of sound economic argument. We still wait for evidence which shows that the abolition of bulk billing and the partial replacement of bulk billing by the pay doctor' cheque system will reduce costs or the incidence of fraud. We are very strongly opposed to the abolition of bulk billing for Medibank. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
Will the Minister indicate whether nationally acceptable standards will be established in relation to: (a) maximum and minimum temperatures in classrooms; (b) the number of toilet bowls a school of a given size should have; and (c) the minimum level of maintenance staff in schools of a given size. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 29 May 1 978: 
How many persons applied for admission to the Italian Interpreter/Translator Course at the Canberra College of Advanced Education in 1 978. 
What were the reasons for the rejection of those who failed to gain admittance to the course. 
How many failed applicants were proficient in both Italian and English. 
What were the changes made by the Canberra College of Advanced Education administration to the selection procedures for students applying to enter the Italian Interpreter/Translator course in 1978, and what were the reasons for those changes. 
How many students arc undertaking each of the language courses offered by the College. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 June 1 978: 
1 ) What support was given to  Mr Robert  Orbinski who was arrested and convicted in Melbourne on 19 May 1978, by officers of the Minister's Department. 
What approaches, if any, were made to the Minister's Depanment, either by  Mr Orbinski  or on his behalf. 
What assistance, if any, would  Mr Orbinski  be able to obtain from organisations funded under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act 1 974. 
-I present the following petition from 652 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of New South Wales and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Here follow the signatures: 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) Is the committee of inquiry set up to examine the question of a communication satellite for Australia regarded as a public inquiry or an interdepartmental committee. 
Who are the members of the committee, and from what organisations do they come. 
Are the members acting as representatives of their organisations, or as individuals. 
Is the transcript of the public hearings held by the committee available to the general public. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) What was the cost to Telecom of the banquet hosted by Telecom for delegates to the International Press Institute conference held in Canberra in March 1978. 
What is the estimated cost, in terms of standard consumer charges, of the telephone facilities, local, subscriber trunk dialling and international, made available free to delegates at the conference. 
What costs apart from the Telecom banquet and free use of telephones did any Government departments or statutory bodies incur in respect of the conference. 
Why did the Government provide financial support and public resources for the International Press Institute conference which is run for the benefit of newspaper proprietors and editors. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
What is the average time for which schools in Australia have been waiting for departmentally-approved building plans to proceed. 
I present the following petition from 769 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition  or  the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That the citizens of New South Wales and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our schools be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of S per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and refers to two statements made last night by the Treasurer: firstly, that all Australians are to be entitled to a basic medical benefit of 40 per cent of the schedule fee totally funded by the Commonwealth from general revenue; and, secondly, that the benefit will be paid by private health insurance funds on behalf of the Commonwealth. Can the Minister explain which agency will be responsible for paying the 40 per cent benefit to persons who choose not to take out health insurance and what the mechanism for such payments will be? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) How much did it cost the Government to hire the private production company, Colorvideo, to produce the Prime Minister's address to the nation which was screened nationally on 16 April 1978. 
Are such talks traditionally produced free of charge by the Australian Broadcasting Commission; if so: (a) did the Prime Minister's choice of a private company result from the shortages of staff and facilities at the Australian Broadcasting Commission which are the result ofthe Government's staff ceilings policy; or (b) was the decision intended to imply that the Australian Broadcasting Commission's skills and facilities were inadequate for the purpose. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 May 1 978: 
1 ) Will ethnic groups be considered on an equal basis to other community groups if they apply to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal for a public broadcasting licence. 
What are the criteria being used by the Minister in his selection of persons to be appointed to the Special Broadcasting Service. 
Will the Minister provide a list of persons so far appointed to the Special Broadcasting Service, including the names of any persons who were appointed, but are no longer working for the Special Broadcasting Service. 
When, and through what media, will the Special Broadcasting Service begin operating. 
Is the inquiry, announced by the Minister, into an ethnic television station, to be a public inquiry. 
Who will be permitted to present views to the inquiry, and who will have access to the proceedings of the inquiry. 
What assistance will the Government provide to groups who wish to participate in the inquiry. 
What role does the Minister envisage for the Australian Broadcasting Commission in ethnic broadcasting, after the Special Broadcasting Service has commenced operations. 
What research has been conducted for the Minister into the potential audience for ethnic broadcasting. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
1 ) How many vacancies for the positions advertised by the Department of Defence in the  Age,  dated 29 April 1978, inviting applicants to train as Electronics Technicians in the Air Force which stated female vacancies had already been filled were open to women and to men. 
When did the Department advertise the female vacancies for the positions already filled, and by what means. 
If there was a less than 50 per cent quota on the number of vacancies open to women, will the Minister explain the reasons for the Department 's decision to limit the number of female trainees. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 9 June 1978: 
What are the details ofthe support given by the Minister's Department to  Mr Robert  Orbinski who was arrested and convicted in Melbourne on 1 9 May 1 978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
Will the Minister define the guidelines used by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in ensuring political balance in its News broadcasts and in current affairs programs such as  This Day Tonight. 
2 ) Do those guidelines apply in all States and Territories; if not, why not. 
I present the following petition from 769 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of New South Wales and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our schools be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister ibr Home Affairs, upon notice, on 9 June 1978: 
Does the Minister intend to introduce amendments to the Australian Film Commission Act 197S to change the role of Film Australia to make it a fully commercial operation in direct competition with the private sector, in view of the rejection by the Minister of the Film Commission project, 77ie  Unknown Industrial Prisoner,  on the grounds that the project did not have commercial potential. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
Last week I asked the Minister a question about the terms and the extent of the inquiry into an ethnic television channel. At the time the Minister was unable to inform me about the matter. This morning I hear on an FM radio broadcast an announcement that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications had decided to establish a new channel for ethnic television and to extend ethnic radio throughout Australia. Will the Minister confirm this statement? Will he now inform the Senate to what extent groups and individuals involved in ethnic broadcasting were consulted by the Government before it reached this decision? 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General and I ask: Were any persons other than Ministers and senior public servants present at the setting of the terms of reference for the McGregor Royal Commission on 23 April and again in relation to the enlargement of the terms of reference on 30 May? 
Before proceeding to debate the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill 1978 and the associated Bill, I would offer my congratulations to  Senator Mason  who has just resumed his seat.  Senator Mason  has just made his maiden speech in this place, and I believe that he raised some matters of fundamental importance to the Australian parliamentary system. I was particularly gratified to hear the emphasis  Senator Mason  placed on the plight of the unemployed youth in our community, and I expect from his contribution that we will be able to look forward to support from  Senator Mason  and the Australian Democrats in this place for active and effective measures to come to terms with the problems of youth unemployment. 
The Senate is debating the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill 1978 and the associated Bill. These Bills have been brought into the Parliament by the Government in response to the Norgard Committee of Inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service which was set up in 1976. Such an inquiry was not untimely as the Commonwealth Employment Service had been operating virtually unchanged in its present form since 1 945 when it was first set up. Of course many things in Australia, particularly the employment situation, have changed drastically since then. The Opposition supports the legislation in principle. We will not oppose the legislation, but we will move a second reading amendment at the appropriate time. However, I must point out that whilst the Opposition will co-operate in all ways to ensure that the services offered by the CES are updated, we find many inadequacies in the legislation before us. We find the legislation an inadequate response to the Norgard report and the many sensible and practical recommendations made in it. 
It is important to emphasise that this legislation to upgrade the CES is being introduced in a particular context. It is being introduced in the context of record unemployment. At this stage there are at least 410,000 Australians unemployed, that is, there are 410,000 Australians registered as being unemployed. There are, of course, many more who are not registered. The question we have to ask in this context is this: Is this legislation an adequate response to the situation, to the crisis of unemployment that confronts us? Is it an adequate response, particularly given the structural nature of the unemployment that confronts us? The Opposition considers that it is not. According to the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  the Bill has three main elements. They are the establishment, functions and powers of the Commonwealth Employment Service; the position and responsibility of the National Director of the Commonwealth Employment Service, including the status of the staff of the Service; and the establishment, functions and membership of a national advisory committee on the CES and provision for the establishment of regional and local advisory committees. So far so good. 
Whilst this legislation will marginally improve the existing CES operations in the ways the Attorney-General has set out, it cannot be seen as the ultimate panacea to the tragic employment crisis in Australia today. According to the Attorney-General, the Bill is designed to provide a legislative framework for the CES which is appropriate to its development as a modern manpower service. However, to this extent it should be noted that the Norgard Committee report pointed out that what the CES needs more than any of the improvements suggested above is the political will and support of the Government to upgrade its activities so that it can function as a modern manpower service. I repeat those words:   . . a modem manpower service. 
Indeed the Minister in his second reading speech used the phrases 'manpower service' and 'manpower program' several times. The question I put to the Senate is: What is the manpower policy of the Government that this new updated CES will carry out? In the view of the Opposition, and I believe in the view of the public, the Government has not total manpower policy. The current employer subsidy schemes do not constitute a manpower policy. The Opposition does not condemn or oppose these schemes, in particular the Commonwealth Youth Support scheme. But in relation to the total labour force problems the Opposition is of the opinion that the existing programs are merely superficial; they merely shift the same limited number of jobs around the ever increasing pool of the unemployed. To that extent the payment of what is now a decreased subsidy to employers to take on unemployed persons for a certain period cannot be regarded or put forward as a manpower policy. 
The Minister also mentioned in his second reading speech the National Employment and 
Training Scheme. He referred to it as one of the manpower programs which this Government is currently administering. I think that is a rather gross overstatement on the part of this Government considering, firstly, what the Government did as soon at it came to office in respect of the allowance payable to NEAT trainees. Honourable senators will recall that the allowance during the Whitlam Administration had been an amount similar to the minimum wage- about $97.50 a week. It was reduced immediately the Fraser Government came into office to an amount more approaching the unemployment benefit, which, of course, was an absolute discouragement to many persons from undertaking training; many persons had to drop out of training schemes and of course many more people were not able to get into them because of the low level of allowance paid. Secondly, it must be stressed that even during the period of the Labor Government the NEAT scheme by itself was not a manpower policy scheme; it was a scheme which paid an allowance to people who were willing to undergo training in various skills or educational institutions that were available at the time. 
In my view and in the view of the Opposition, there is a very big difference between a scheme that simply pays an allowance or a subsidy to people seeking training and a scheme which is actually a manpower policy scheme. I will not take up the time of the Senate now by denning what, in the view of the Opposition, would be an adequate manpower policy scheme, but certainly it would have characteristics such as these: If the Government were serious about having a manpower policy scheme, it would seek out and support areas of stable employment in both public and private sectors. Having found those areas and having supported them, it would then set up and conduct training schemes to train unemployed persons to fit into them. Simply paying subsidies alone does not constitute a manpower policy scheme. 
I stress that even in the current unemployment crisis there are still areas of employment where jobs are available if unemployed persons had the skills to take them up. One illustration of this point is that the Government runs its current immigration intake program on the basis of skills categories. Every month or every few months the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  puts out a list of skills categories under which persons wishing to migrate to Australia can qualify as being eligible for immigration. In doing this the Government admits that there are areas of skill which are needed in 
Australia, which are not available in the Australian work force and for which qualified migrants then become acceptable to come to Australia. If the Government can identify those areas of needed skills for the purpose of its immigration program, surely it could identify them for the purpose of establishing a proper work force training program. Of course it has not done that. 
If the Government does not want full employment- its present economic strategy appears to be evidence of this- the Commonwealth Employment Service, no matter how much it improves its efficiency, cost effectiveness and so forth, will not be able to overcome by itself the problems of the unemployed. Only last week the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  admitted that the dole queue will grow in the next year. As reported in the  Age  on Thursday, 1 7 August, he said that the Federal Government had budgeted for an average of 25,000 more people being on the dole this financial year than in 1977-78. There we have an admission- surely it would not be an overstatement from the Treasurer- that unemployment will grow. Although the Treasurer did not state this, no appropriate response is being made by the Government to this growing pool of unemployed. 
There are several other difficulties with the legislation before us. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  pointed out in the debate in another place, what the Service needs most is the utmost co-operation of a sympathetic government which will be willing to give the Service the autonomy and the resources required to develop initiatives to overcome the unemployment problem. Nowhere in the legislation before us do we find such adequate resources or the autonomy. The Norgard report states that the management of the CES should be vested in a statutory authority wholly and solely concerned with employment and manpower methods, including analysis of the labour market and formulation of manpower programs. The Government has decided against implementing this recommendation; it has decided against making the CES a statutory authority but it has not explained why it has made this decision. 
I must say at this point that members of the Opposition do not entirely support the idea of an independent authority, as recommended by the Norgard report. Nonetheless we would be interested to hear why the Government rejected this proposal. The legislation gives the CES little independence, which in our view would not be a major shortcoming if the Government had arrange of manpower programs, the implementation of which would keep the CES occupied. But of course it does not have such programs. 
At this stage of the debate I think it is important to look at the current labour market, the imbalances, the special groups of unemployed, the changing structure of Australian industry, the need for more co-operation between training and educational institutions and the labour market in order to judge the efficacy of the legislation. The total picture, of course, is absolutely appalling. I shall quote now some figures from the labour force survey conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in May 1978. For the last 12 months, in every respect there was a deterioration of the labour market. In May 1977 the unemployment rate for women was 7.3. per cent; a year later it was 8 per cent. In May 1977 the unemployment rate for men was 4.5 per cent; a year later it was 5 per cent. 
Let us look at the smaller categories of unemployed. If we look at the hardest hit group, young persons 15 to 19 years of age, looking for their first jobs, we find that in May 1977 there were 16,100 women unemployed; a year later there were 23,900 young women in this category; that is, 18.7 per cent of women between 15 and 19 years of age looking for their first jobs were unemployed. In May 1977, 13,400 young men were unemployed; a year later 18,000 were unemployed; that is, 14.8 per cent of young males looking for their first jobs were unemployed. Similarly, the situation for migrants has grown worse. The unemployment rate now for migrant women in the 1 5 to 19 years age group is 1 9.7 per cent and for males 19.2 per cent. For all migrants the unemployment rate currently is 9. 1 per cent for women and 5.6 per cent for men. 
Further indication of the imbalance in the unemployment situation is revealed in the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication Employed Wage and Salary Earners June 1971 to June 1975 and Employed Wage and Salary Earners June 1977'. This publication shows that manufacturing employment fell by 142,700 in that period and construction employment by 34,900. In January this year there were 64.49 males for every unskilled job vacancy. Vacancies are falling faster in unskilled areas, which is a matter of great concern. Between 1975 and 1978 vacancies for unskilled workers fell by 56.9 per cent. The comparison with other areas of the work force shows a fall of 25 per cent for professional, clerical and administrative workers, 54.6 per cent for skilled workers, and 30.07 per cent for semi-skilled workers. 
Dealing in more detail with the ABS publication 'Labour Force November 1977', I will cite the number of unemployed to give an indication of the nature of the unemployment we are currently facing. In the manufacturing industry there were 72,400 unemployed; in construction 27,400; in the wholesale and retail trade 67,800; in the category of people looking for first jobs there were 44,200 unemployed; in the category described as tradesmen, production workers and labourers there were 1 19,600 unemployed; male electrical workers 27,900; building workers 20,200; sales 29,200; and service, sport and recreation workers 34,100. I bring those figures to the attention of the Senate to demonstrate the nature of the unemployment crisis. It is not spread evenly throughout the community. It is a crisis that has come about through the collapse of the manufacturing sector and the building and construction industry. In the light of those major structural problems we find the provisions in the legislation before the Senate inadequate. 
There are other questions that I wish to raise in regard to this legislation. I welcome the fact that in his second reading speech the Minister acknowledged that the Commonwealth Employment Service should provide specialised services for disadvantaged groups. These services have not been provided to date, but I should say at this point that the Opposition offers no criticism of the CES officers for failing to provide these specialised services. We recognise that the Government's policy of staff ceilings, the low level of training for CES officers, and other factors emanating from Government policy are reasons why CES officers have been unable to provide specialised services for disadvantaged groups. There is clearly a need for more resources and, in particular, for more training of CES officers if the special needs of disadvantaged groups are to be met. 
In his second reading speech the Minister seemed to acknowledge this need, and indeed referred to training. The Opposition waits with interest to see exactly what training schemes will be supported by the Government. In regard to the question of providing further training for CES officers, I refer to the opening yesterday of a youth employment centre in Sydney, which was televised on national television. This centre, which offers a co-ordinated service to unemployed youth and which should be of some assistance to youths seeking jobs, is a self-service centre. It struck me as being rather ironic that in a climate where the Government should be attempting to create more jobs and more services for the unemployed its major initiative has been to set up a self-service centre; that is, an understaffed centre with very few people to give personal advice and counselling to young people. The Minister may care to explain that apparent contradiction. 
The Minister did mention that there are categories of persons who need special services, including the handicapped, Aboriginal people and migrants. However, he did not mention what is perhaps the largest and most neglected category, the category of unemployed women. It emerges very clearly in the statistics I have just read to the Senate that unemployment amongst women in all age groups, but particularly in the younger age groups, is significantly higher than unemployment amongst men. To the Australian Labor Party that is an intolerable position. For the benefit of those honourable senators who may need this fact restated, I will say briefly that it is the Opposition's view that every person has the right to employment, regardless of marital status. What is happening with regard to unemployed married women is that their plight is being hidden. Their unemployment is simply not being measured by current techniques for measuring unemployment in the community. This stems partly from the fact that an unemployed person whose spouse is in employment is not entitled to unemployment benefit. I do not wish at this stage to enter into a debate on the rights and wrongs of that situation, although I do believe it is fundamentally wrong. Because unemployed married women whose husbands are in employment are not entitled to benefit they usually fail to register at CES Offices. 
Another situation about which I have received many personal complaints occurs when married women are laid off, thus being deprived of the income upon which their families were dependent, either solely or partly, for the maintenance of their standard of living. When they go to the CES and say that they are married the CES loses all interest in them. I have had many reports of married women actually being discouraged from reporting regularly to the CES. Of course, once they are discouraged they drop out of the labour force and are no longer counted as unemployed persons. We do not really know how many unemployed women are in this category; that is, unemployed but not counted in any of the mechanisms for counting the unemployed. However, a recent study in the United States showed that for every 100 women who were laid off, 70 of themthat is 70 per cent of women who had lost thenjobs dropped out of the labour force and were no longer counted. Such people very quickly become discouraged because they know that there is no chance of getting unemployment benefit and they do not go to the CES offices. When the ABS household surveys are taken and the question is asked, 'Have you been actively seeking work in the last week?', they say no because they know that there are no jobs for them and they are thus out of the labour force. 
We have reason to believe that there are many unemployed workers who have become discouraged and whose numbers are no longer counted. From my own experience and study of this problem I believe that the situation of unemployed married women is a very grave one indeed. I have no indication that the legislation before us will offer any better services to unemployed married women seeking employment. However, if the CES offices are going to become more efficient and better co-ordinated, if they are going to have more and better trained staff- all the things suggested in the Minister's second reading speech- then I hope that married women who lose their jobs will get assistance from the CES in the same way as any other person who loses his job. 
Another objectionable feature of the legislation is that the role of the CES in determining eligibility for the payment of unemployment benefits is continued. In the view of the Opposition, that is not a proper role for the Commonwealth Employment Service. In the view of the Opposition, this role has caused a lowering of the status of the Service in the eyes of the unemployed, who have to go there and register fortnight after fortnight in order to fulfil some of the eligibility criteria for the receipt of social security benefits. They cease to regard the Commonwealth Employment Service as a service for placing unemployed persons in employment, which is its proper role. I note that all the peak labour councils are of the view that this particular role of the Commonwealth Employment Service should be removed. It is their view, and it is the view of the Opposition, that this function diverts the very scarce resources of the CES away from its main function which, as I have just stated, is the placing of persons in jobs. Paragraph 2.35 of the Norgard report recommends a new procedure to relieve the CES of this function. At this point I should like to record that the Opposition considers it most unfortunate that the Government has not included this particular recommendation of the Norgard report in the legislation. 
In conclusion, I say that the Opposition welcomes some measures of the legislation. We do welcome the setting up of advisory committees at national, State and regional levels. We do welcome the inclusion of employer and employee representatives on those committees. I suggest that the committees could have been even further strengthened had they included representatives from educational bodies. However, we do welcome these moves. At this stage I would like to make clear that the Opposition is willing to cooperate in any proper way with any serious, genuine measure the Government comes up with to improve the plight of the unemployed and indeed to improve the efficiency of the CES. We are willing to co-operate and we are therefore supporting the legislation. 
We see inadequacies in the legislation, some of which I have enumerated and some of which will be enumerated by my colleagues subsequently in the debate. But fundamentally, because we are in total co-operation with the principle that the situation of the unemployed needs to be assisted by improved CES services, we support the legislation. However, on behalf of the Opposition, I move the following amendment to the motion That the Bill be now read a second time ': 
At end of motion, add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the Commonwealth Employment Service as envisaged under this legislation would be grossly inadequate as a vehicle for an effective manpower policy'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Senior members of staff of the Australian Broadcasting Commission are in dispute over the use of outside contract labour by the ABC in a current ABC Television series called  The Marcia Hines Show.  In respect of this series, can the Minister inform the Senate how many instances there have been of the use of contract labour for work that could have been done by ABC employees and, secondly, what has been the cost to the Commission of the use of this contract labour. 
I  present the following petition from 284 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of N.S.W and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our schools be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools in 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of S per cent in real terms on base level programmes for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the widespread concern among ethnic communities about the delay on the part of government in reaching a decision on ethnic television? Can the Minister now answer my previously unanswered questions, No. 482 of 24 May 1978 and No. 708 of 12 September this year, about the extent to which the ethnic broadcasters have been consulted in this matter? Can the Minister indicate when the Parliament may expect a decision on ethnic television? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 9 June 1978: 
1 ) Was  Mr Robert  Orbinski arrested and convicted in Melbourne on 19 May 1978, entitled to Legal Aid from the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
Was  Mr Orbinski  seen by an Australian Legal Aid officer when charged in Melbourne on Friday, 1 9 May 1 978. 
Did that officer consider whether he was fit to plead; if not, why not. 
Has the Commonwealth Government provided sufficient funds for the Legal Aid Office in Melbourne to operate effectively. 
5 ) What experience has the duty Legal Aid officer at the Melbourne City Court had, and what case load does he have to carry. 
Is the Legal Aid officer instructed to act for people on contested matters on the day. 
I present the following petition from 456 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition ofthe Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of N.S.W. and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1 979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following pet  ition from 54 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned, members of the Sydney University Postgraduate Representative Association, and like minded people, respectfully showeth that the Government decision to tax Commonwealth Postgraduate Research Awards will result in: 
a further serious decline in living standards for postgraduate scholars performing valuable low cost research for the Australian community, and 
a reduction in the standard of research at the universities as top scholars will be forced to reject offers of inadequately financed Research Awards. 
Your petitioners strongly urge that the Commonwealth Government take appropriate action to revert to the former policy of award adjustments in line with the Consumer Price Index. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Howard Budget which the Senate is debating this evening is in many ways a predictable document. It is predictable in that it restates in tedious and monotonous terms all the ideological prejudices, class biases and outdated and discredited economic theories that have characterised the Fraser-led coalition Government since it. first sought, and grabbed power. As we would have suspected, obsessed with the pursuit of reduced inflation, the Budget does not even attempt to tackle the scandal of unemployment. On the contrary, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  admits that unemployment will grow in the next 12 months. The half a million or thereabouts unemployed Australians are told to wait in their poverty and hopelessness until some future time, unstated, when the Fraserian economics start to work. Of course, Fraser 's economics will not work. All the evidence shows that. Already we have had a decline in inflation but at the same time we have had a rapid and continuing escalation in unemployment. 
The familiar attack on wages and wage earners is repeated again and again throughout the Howard Budget which failed entirely to face up to the real issues, such as the structural problems in the local economy, the weakness in managerial and entrepreneurial skills in the private sector, the huge profits which are made by foreign-owned companies and are taken out of the country, the destabilising effect of the unplanned introduction of new technology in the work place, and the failure of consumer demand in this period of economic depression. Failing entirely to confront these problems, the Government resorts to its single familiar theme- the attack on wage earners.  Mr Howard  tells us that real wages are still too high and this remains a major cause of the unacceptable level of unemployment. That is all he has to say. 
The attack on the public sector and on the public employees continues. The Budget Speech contains a thinly veiled threat that any increase in Public Service wages will lead to sackings in the Public Service and these sackings, we must presume, will be over and above the 15,000 jobs in the public sector that will have disappeared, having been eliminated by the Fraser Government, by the end of the next financial year. Again in the Budget we recognise the Government's fraudulent approach to the consumer price index. The Budget contains further evidence of the Government's determination to play tricks with this figure. We are told that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission should discard all the real increases in the consumer price of alcohol, cigarettes and petrol as a result of the new indirect taxes when considering the consumer price index so that the index can be kept artificially low and the Government can persist with its dubious claim that inflation is under control. 

<graphic href="078232197809135_52_5.jpg"></graphic>

Indeed. There are very serious further threats to the independence of the Commission in the Budget. The Treasurer made the point that if the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission refused to act as the creature of government in these matters and maintained its independence in determining what the wages of Australians should be, the Government as an employer would respond to this persistence of independence by abolishing even more jobs. That is stated quite clearly. 
Predictable as the Howard Budget was in these ways, it also contained some surprises. It did come as a surprise to the community that the Government of tax reform, the Government that has touted around the electorate promises to reduce taxation, has proceeded to make changes to our taxation system. For example, it has introduce taxation on post graduate scholarships, the pittance that post graduate scholars receive to the extent that they will have their real income reduced by up to one-third. It has withdrawn taxation rebates for taxpayers supporting people overseas. That is another attack on the ethnic communities. It has imposed taxes on all pensioners and recipients of benefits, no matter how disadvantaged they are. It proposes to tax the income of children. Finally, of course, it has imposed a tax surcharge on 1 1 per cent of the income of all taxpayers, thus wiping out for most taxpayers the tax reductions which were so famous or, should I say, notorious during the 1 977 election campaign. 
Even the most cynical citizens in Australia were shocked by such a blatant disregard for public promises made by public persons and commitments made by governments. It is a matter of concern to me not only that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has brought himself into disrepute by this complete about-face from that which he promised and that to which he committed himself in 1977 but, also, to me as an elected representative ofthe people, that this sort of about turn, this breaking of promises, calls into disrepute the whole of our Parliament and the whole of our parliamentary system. How can the citizens of Australia be expected to have confidence in and to trust their elected representatives when we have performances of this kind from the Prime Minister and his Cabinet? 
Of course, the Government is now backing down on some of its more gross and callous tax excesses. There seems to be a backdown by the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  on the matter of the taxation of blind pensioners. Some sort of withdrawal has been published by the Treasurer in relation to that matter. There seems to be a backdown by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  with regard to the provision to tax the income of children. The Minister has told us that it was not intended that the income earned by children in their own right should be taxed and that she will introduce regulations to change the situation. One must ask what these late backdowns mean. Do they mean that the Government is completely incompetent and that it does not understand the effects of the provisions it introduces? That is one possible interpretation of the change of heart. Does it mean that the Government is totally cynical, that it introduced all these callous measures but that it did so with the knowledge that it could back down and so appear to be responsive to expressions of community concern after the event? I would like an answer to those questions from the responsible Ministers in the course of this debate. 
Thank you,  Senator Tate.  Then we come to the bizarre changes in the health insurance scheme. Even the most vociferous opponents of the national health insurance scheme- I am referring to members of the Australian Medical Association- were astounded by the irrational and eccentric changes introduced in the Budget. The changes are costly, chaotic, confusing and do not necessarily lead to a reduction in expenditure by the Government on health. They are changes which seem to have only one purpose, and that is again to artificially deflate the consumer price index. By removing the Medibank levy from the measurement of the CPI there will be in the short term an artificial deflation of the CPI. That seems to be the only positive effect in terms of the Government 's own ideology, of the changes to the health insurance scheme. 
At this point of the debate I would like to register my total opposition to the provision which will require doctors- medical persons- to judge who in our community are socially disadvantaged and who can be entitled to have their medical bills met. 

 - Senator Coleman says that it is an audacity. It infringes the famous doctorpatient relationship about which we hear so much from the AMA and supporters of the coalition. It is an entirely repugnant measure. During the Senate Estimates committee hearings questions will be asked about the cost to the taxpayer of advertising this series of changes to the health insurance system in an effort to inform people about what they are up for at this particular stage. 
After the proud boast of the Minister for Social Security last year that she had taken politics out of pensions by legislating for an automatic sixmonth CPI adjustment to pensions, we were surprised and disgusted to see that that particular boast proved hollow, to see pensions reduced to a yearly adjustment, and to see age pensioners condemned to a 16-month lag behind increased prices. 
I now proceed to other matters in the Budget which have received little attention to date. I deal, firstly, with the budget for the Australian Broadcasting Commission- the body which has the vital, crucial function in our society of providing a national broadcasting service to all Australians. The Budget appropriation for this year is $ 160.6m, which is 3 per cent more than last year's allocation. The inflation rate is 8 per cent. That reduces the ABC's budget in real terms by over 4 per cent on last year's level of funding. In order to maintain last year's level of funding $167m would have been necessary. Since 1 974-75 funding has declined in real terms each year. Taking into account CPI inflation rates since 1974-75, an appropriation in 1978-79 of $197m would have maintained merely the 1974-75 level of funding. However, all that has been allocated is $ 160m. So this year the Budget allocation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission represents a 19 per cent reduction on the 1974-75 level of funding. 
The problems facing the Australian Broadcasting Commission as a result of these progressive reductions in funding centre around where the economies are to be made. The public is being cheated. It is not getting the high standard of national broadcasting services for which it is paying. The production of new programs will suffer. More repeat programs will be broadcast. Current affairs programs have been cut and will be cut further. As far as staff ceilings are concerned, the Minister made an announcement only last week that yet another 168 jobs are to go. The staff ceiling is now down to 6,075 jobs. That represents a reduction of one in every five jobs since 1975. This reduction in the staff ceiling has had an effect mainly in the creative and production areas of the Commission, while the managerial and administrative sectors remain comparatively well off. The result is not only that the pool of available production talent in the ABC has been depleted but also that fewer people are being trained in production work. The shortage of money and the concomitant vulnerability to political pressure has caused much frustration amongst Commission staff. Talented, creative personnel have been leaving and they are not being replaced. 
The run-down in production staff has provoked industrial problems within the Commission. In March of this year there was a dispute over the use of outside contract labour. In an answer to a question in the Senate the responsible Minister stated that the necessary production skills for the job in question were not available from within the ABC. That was as a result, of course, of the staff ceilings policy. In answer to questions on notice which I put to the Minister I received the information that in 1975-76 $6.1m was spent on outside contract labour by the ABC and that in 1976-77 $5.5m was spent on outside contract labour. This expenditure is a waste of the taxpayers' money. It is money which is being spent to employ people outside the ABC to do the work which the ABC, if properly resourced and managed, should be doing. Apart from that, it is a trans.ferance of public money to the private sector, to the profits made by the outside companies which have performed the work which should properly have been performed by our national broadcasting service. 
The money allocated to broadcasting in this Budget is to be distributed as follows: 95.8 per cent is to go to the ABC; 2.3 per cent, which is $3. 6m, to the Special Broacasting Service; and $2.9m, which represents 1.8 per cent of the total allocation, to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. I would like to question this figure of $3. 6m which is to go to the Special Broadcasting Service. The Special Broadcasting Service, it is claimed by the Government, has been set up to provide broadcasting services for ethnic groups throughout our community. However, the legislation was so drawn that the Special Broadcasting Service has the possibility of becoming and could easily become something which is properly described as a propaganda machine for the Government. If that is what the Special Broadcasting Service is to become, the expenditure of $3.6m for this purpose is scandalous. If, on the other hand, the Government is sincere in its intentions to make the Special Broadcasting Service a broadcasting service to which all ethnicgroups in Australia have access, the expenditure of $3. 6m for this purpose is ludicrously small. 
My comment on the allocation of a mere $2. 9m to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal is again that this is inadequate. The Broadcasting 
Tribunal has new and important functions, functions with which in principle the Opposition agrees. But it is quite clear from the actions of the Tribunal in recent times that it is inadequately resourced. A new and I think very encouraging venture in public broadcasting has been undertaken by the Broadcasting Tribunal. But at the very outset we found the procedure of the Tribunal receiving applications from public broadcasters and proceeding to try to consider these applications to be a complete fiasco. Half of the applications in the first instance  were  ruled to be ineligible because the Broadcasting Tribunal had not collected them by the due date. When the matter was investigated it was found that inadequate resources within the Tribunal rather than dilatoriness on the part of the applicants was the cause of this fiasco. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  solves the problem by intending to introduce retrospective legislation, a very clumsy way indeed of solving the problem, which would never have come about if the Broadcasting Tribunal had been given adequate resources. 
The inadequate funding of the Australian Broadcasting Commission indicates a lack of interest in this very important area and a lack of imagination by the Government. There is a complete failure by the Government to provide measures which would enable the ABC to raise its own revenue through entrepreneurial activities. The ABC would be very well placed to do just that if it were assisted. The ABC runs orchestras, conducts concerts, issues records of ABC orchestral concerts and publishes various items arising from its own programs. All these sorts of activities could be developed in such a way as to be revenue raising for the ABC, but the Government, because of its total prejudice against any sort of public enterprise, seems totally blind to the possibilities in this direction. 
When we proceed to consider the funding of the Australia Council again we see Budget figures whose accuracy is dubious and which are intended to mislead the public as to the extent of funding for the arts in Australia. An appropriation of $25. 95m is made for the Australia Council, a monetary increase of 9.3 per cent or $2. 2m. The program expenditure for 1977-78 was $124m, $660,000 over the actual allocation of that year. That extra money is for the two Elizabethan Theatre Trust orchestras which are likely to be transferred to the opera and the ballet. The excess money was not returned to revenue but was withheld because of the pending transfer. It should have been included in the 1 977-78 Estimates but was included this year. So the $2m increase that appears in the figures presented in the Budget is in fact only a Sim increase. An increase of only 3.6 per cent over last year's funding of the Australia Council is being made. This cut follows a decline of 12.7 per cent in real terms in 1976-77 and of 24.8 per cent in the two years 1975 to 1977. 
The staff ceilings set for the Australia Council have been reduced to twice the extent of the Public Service as a whole. Last year the Australia Council complained that the shortage of funds would severely hamper its community arts program. Although the Council allocated 31.5 per cent of its program budget to community arts in 1976-77 it was worried whether it would be able to fulfil this, its most socially important function. In 1976-77 the arts paid out $400m in salaries. So the arts industry is a very significant employer and the erosion of the arts budget means more than simply a cut back on the esoteric pursuits of the few. The arts could be a potential area for greatly increased employment in Australia, but again the Government, with its bias against public activities of this kind, has been too short sighted to see this. 
Over one half of the Australian population has direct contact with subsidised arts activities. A Morgan gallup poll taken in 1977 showed that 70 per cent of the population believed that cultural activities needed more not less financial support from government. Nevertheless, the Government has continued to deny the Australia Council sufficient funds, so that many of its projects have been either chopped altogether or simply limited. For example, reductions have been made in support for Aboriginal arts. Literary fellowships have almost halved since 1973 and their real value has declined by one third. Grants for the Visual Arts Board for the conservation of art works are well below the needs. 
On the other hand, the Government has demonstrated its willingness to interfere in the arts when it disagrees with funding decisions. The refusal of the Minister who is responsible for the arts, the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Ellicott,  to accept the majority decision of the Australian Film Commission to proceed with the film  The Unknown Industrial Prisoner  was a case of direct political interference. More recently, the Minister intervened in the Theatre Board's decision to discontinue funding of the Old Tote Theatre. This was done with the supreme assurance of executive power, despite the fact that the Australia Council is a statutory authority. In the view of the Australian Labor Party, government funding of the arts is desirable only when there is a guarantee of freedom of expression. The Fraser 
Government is not committed to free expression and will make its influence felt both directly and indirectly through funding. The arts budget demonstrates the elitist view of this Government with respect to the arts. 
It would appear that according to the Fraser Government those people who want the arts can pay for them and the rest can do without. In this respect the Government has been completely unimaginative. It fails to see the area of the arts and the Australian film industry as a potential area for both job creation and increased productivity. The Government has provided tax concessions to encourage investment in the film industry. But what it fails to see is that cutbacks in the Australian Broadcasting Commission reduce the training possibilities for the Australian film industry. It is very clear to anyone interested in this area of activity that most of the people who are currently having success in the Australian film industry were trained through the Australian Broadcasting Commission. But such training opportunities have now been severely restricted. 
It should be pointed out to Government also that we cannot have a film industry without actors. Yet the great Government tax reform has failed completely to make any changes to correct serious inequities in tax requirements for actors. Not only is there an unemployment rate of something like 80 per cent in the acting profession, but also are the tax burdens quite inequitable. For example, actors cannot average out their earnings. They are taxed at a normal rate on lump sum termination pay. Of course, this is very burdensome. An actor's minimum wage is $ 149.50 a week, although I know many actors who work for less than that. So tax savings for periods of unemployment is not possible. They get no recreation leave or sick pay and they have no security of tenure. Previously employers could issue a statement of earnings but this Budget forces employers of actors to deduct pay-as-you-earn taxation. 
The making of television commercials represents sustenance for many actors in Australia. Often large amounts are paid in a lump sum for such work between long periods of no work or low pay. Under the present taxation provisions performers must pay tax on the lump sum and, as I said, they are unable to equalise their earnings over a period. So the Government has shown a complete insensitivity to the needs of the acting profession, an insensitivity which is all the more deplorable as it comes at a time when the Australian film industry is, as I have said, an area with a great deal of potential for development,  forexpansion,forproducingproductsthatcould  be sold overseas, for creating employment and so on. On the one hand, the Government appears to want an Australian film industry and to be prepared to encourage investment in such an industry, but on the other is unprepared to look at the problems facing actors without whom, as I have said, there could be no film industry. 
Again, in its decision to introduce rebates for taxpayers who make gifts to certified institutions such as art galleries, museums, et cetera, the Government has failed to come to grips with the problems of people working in the arts in Australia. Certainly, a provision like that might assist the growth and the collections of galleries in certified institutions but, of course, it must be the case that those who are in a position to make these gifts and attract these concessions are the affluent. Very rarely are they the actual producers themselves, the artists. 
At the same time, the Government has failed to address itself to the problems of the actual producers, craftspeople, jewellers and others engaged in that sort of production who, similar to actors, must face iniquitous tax provisionsprovisions which make it very difficult for them to continue in their line of production and to conduct what this Government should see as commercially successful enterprises. 
It just seems to me that this Government has an elitist, narrow view of the arts. It fails to see that the arts are, firstly, important to all Australians, not only those who can afford to make donations to art galleries or invest in films; that the arts are a very exciting area for future development in economic terms, in job creation, in the development of skills and the expression of creativity. All it has done, really, is to provide assistance to those who have simply an entrepreneurial interest in the arts. 
<para pgwide="yes">I repeat that this Budget has been a combination of the predictable and the surprising, the predictable in that there is nothing new by way of solutions to unemployment; nothing new by way of the use of the public sector to create jobs, to create wealth for the country; nothing new by way of taxes on excess profits of multinational companies operating in this country. There are plenty of the same tired, old suggestions that wage earners are to blame for everything, that only by the reduction of the living standards of the average Australian can profits rise to the desirable extent. There is a totally unexpected attackonthemostseverelydisadvantaged people in our community through the decision to cut back the indexation of age pensions from a six-month to a 12-month frequency; by imposing new tax burdens on other recipients of social security pensions; by taxing family allowances through the mechanism of taxing children's incomes; by abolishing the maternity allowance, which was a very minor form of assistance to families; by imposing a totally inequitable form of increased taxation through indirect taxes which, of course, fall more heavily on the poor than on the rich; and by failing entirely to raise new and proper sources of revenue from the very rich and fruitful enterprises which are carried out in the minerals and energy sector of the country. The Budget is a deplorable document, one which I believe has been criticised throughout the community for its various failures and one which it seems even the Government itself cannot defend as it has already begun to reduce, amend or change the various provisions in it. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to a report in this morning's Melbourne  Age  which describes complaints made by an Australian Broadcasting Commission television journalist about derogatory, in fact racist, remarks made to her by a senior officer of the ABC. I ask the Minister to explain what mechanism exists within the ABC to examine such complaints. If such charges are found to be true, what action is open to the ABC management to protect ABC staff from insult and harassment by senior officers? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Can the Minister explain why, in view of his numerous public assurances that he and the Fraser Government would maintain education standards in the Australian 
Capital Territory, he has now instructed the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority to impose further staff reductions which will lower teaching standards in the Australian Capital Territory schools? Does the Minister agree that by retreating from the promises he has given publicly in relation to this matter he has provoked and is responsible for the industrial action now planned by the ACT Teachers Federation? 
I present the following petition from 136 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of N.S.W. and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our schools be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1 979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programmes for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Radio Station 3CR, Melbourne 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the fact that experimental operations involving a new communications technology called Teletext are at present being conducted by several television stations throughout Australia. As the Australian Broadcasting Commission so far has been excluded from the experimental development of Teletext, can the Minister indicate whether the Government has any intention to involve the national broadcasting service in this important new development? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and follows on from other questions directed to her this morning. I seek information regarding the declaration now required to be made by mothers on their children's income earned in the 1977-78 income year. What documentation of this income will be required by the Government, bearing in mind that payments for children's odd jobs, such as baby sitting, is typically by cash and without receipt? What will be the response of the Government to parents who have no documentation of their children's income during this period? Will the Government be informing all families affected by this new provision of the appeal provisions which are available to them under various Acts? 
I rise this evening to raise a matter which I believe to be of great importance to all honourable senators and, indeed, to honourable members in another place. It concerns the role of the Parliamentary Library. I particularly want to ask what information, in the view of the Government, can legitimately be obtained by officers of the Library for the use of honourable senators and honourable members? There seems to me to have been a sudden and unannounced change of policy on the part of the Government in respect of the role of the Parliamentary Library. Library officers now are being denied access to factual information which in some cases has already been published and in all cases should be publicly available. I wish to make it quite clear that my remarks are in no way intended as a criticism of library officers, whom I have found- I am sure other honourable senators have found alsoalways to be competent, co-operative and highly professional. But in my experience there have been two recent incidents of denial of information which I have taken very seriously. I have no way of knowing whether other honourable senators have experienced similar difficulties. 
A few days after the Howard Budget was presented I asked the Parliamentary Library for figures relating to the Government's staff ceiling policy for this year and for the past two years. This material had been published already in such forms as annual reports of the Public Service Board. I sought from the Library a concise summary of this highly significant information. This information is particularly significant to me as the constituency which I represent has a majority of wage earners employed by the Government. I expect that this information would be of interest to all honourable senators. It is just statistical information on staff ceilings. It is the sort of information that I imagine would be easily available to parliamentary officers who sought it from the Public Service. It should be on file in the 
Parliamentary Library, readily available for members and senators seeking access to it. However, when the officer of the Parliamentary Library sought this straightforward information from the Public Service Board the Parliamentary Library officer was told that the Public Service Board could not make this information available. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  to explain this evening why this was the case. Today, again at my request, an officer from the Parliamentary Library sought from the Office of Child Care figures relating to the expenditure by government on child care since 1975. 1 also sought to obtain a breakdown of this expenditure as between full day care and other forms of child care which are funded by the Federal Government. The Office of Child Care told the Parliamentary Library officer that the Office could not provide this information to the Parliamentary Library. The officer was advised that the senator or member seeking the information should ask a question in the Parliament of the Minister. Through you,  Mr President,  I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: What is the significance of this advice being given today by the Office of Child Care to an officer of the Parliamentary Library? Why should the Parliamentary Library be denied access to straightforward information of this kind? Again I say that it is information to which many senators and members may wish to have access at short notice and which should be on file in the Parliamentary Library for this purpose. 
Honourable senators will realise from repeated experiences in this chamber at Question Time that, in their responses to questions seeking detailed information about funding of particular government programs, Ministers generally advise honourable senators to place such questions on notice. If honourable senators do that, how long do they have to wait for answers? From looking at the Notice Paper for this month it is clear that many questions have been languishing on the Notice Paper unanswered for several months. At present there are unanswered questions on the Notice Paper from 28 February and 1 March. I have a question of 7 March which is still unanswered. Clearly the mechanism of placing a question on notice is quite useless if an honourable senator needs immediate information for his or her constituents or for some other proper parliamentary purpose. It is totally unsatisfactory and in my view and the view of the Opposition contrary to the interests of a democratic parliamentary system for factual information relating to government not to be readily available to members and senators in their Library. I ask the responsible Minister to explain this evening why access has been restricted in the cases I have outlined. I ask him to inform the Senate whether there has indeed been a change of policy by the Government with regard to access to information by the Library. I ask whether new instructions have been issued to public servants by Ministers in relation to these matters. Finally, I ask the Minister to state clearly what in the view of the Government is the role of the Parliamentary Library in our parliamentary system and what information the Parliamentary Library should properly and readily have accessible for members and senators. 
I present the following petition from 97 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of New South Wales and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Radio Station 3CR, Melbourne 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, refers to an announcement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that  Mr Harold  Cottee is to be appointed Commissioner of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. I ask the Minister: Is this the same  Mr Cottee  who, as  Chairman  of Metro West Broadcasters, was twice the unsuccessful applicant for a commercial radio licence for Sydney's western suburbs last year? Is  Mr 
Cottee 's appointment to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission an attempt by the Government to avoid a second High Court injunction being lodged by  Mr Cottee  against the granting of this licence to another applicant? 
I rise to take the opportunity presented by the first reading debate on the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bills before the Senate this evening to draw attention to a matter of great importance to me and my constituents, the people of the Australian Capital Territory, that is, the state of depression, decline, low morale, high unemployment and general disorganisation of the Capital Territory, the nation's capital, that has resulted from three years of Fraser Government. There was a time when Canberra was the success story of decentralisation, the success story of growth centres. There was a time when the Australian Capital Territory seemed to represent and to be able to achieve many of the things to which communities in other parts of Australia aspired. There was a time when I suppose we in the A.C.T. could have been fairly criticised for being an advantaged community, advantaged in that it was a planned community, a growing community, a community with excellent educational standards and wide employment opportunities, and a community which was thriving in many ways. It was a place which generally was harmonious in terms of the society that we had created here. 
But since the Fraser Government first grabbed power in 1975 and subsequently retained that hold on power, a very different picture has emerged here in the A.C.T. Far from being the thriving growth centre, far from being the developing and flourishing national capital which it had been, it has now become a seriously depressed place, a place where for the youth and the children of the community there is very little hope. This all bears discussion in the national Parliament of Australia because it is really here in the Australian Capital Territory that the policies of the Fraser Government are most clearly manifest. Here in the A.C.T. there is no State government which we can blame or from which we can seek protection from the excesses of the Fraser Government. The A.C.T. has one tier of government only and that is the Federal Government, although we have a locally elected body which many of us had hoped would become a territorial government. That body is still at this stage an advisory body. 
So all the policies which are implemented in the A.C.T. emanate from the Fraser Government. All the effects of those policies must be seen as matters for which the Fraser Government is responsible. Here in the Australian Capital Territory the Fraser Government has had a perfect opportunity to develop its ideology- its anti-public sector ideology, its anti-growth ideology. We see the results. I think that what has happened here is really an example of what is happening throughout Australia, but it is happening throughout Australia more slowly or in a less systematic way than it is happening here. The extraordinary growth in the level of unemployment, the decline of the building and construction industry, the decline in the retail industry- the absolute disorganisation of private enterprise generally in the Australian Capital Territory- is a pattern that we will see repeated throughout Australia, but of course it will not progress as rapidly elsewhere as it has progressed here. 
Let us consider what the Opposition considers to be the crucial issue of our time, namely, the employment issue. It is the crucial issue of our time because in our society the right to earn a living is a basic right. This is a society in which success in economic terms means success in all sorts of other terms. That is not a situation which the party I represent necessarily supports; nonetheless, it is a situation which we recognise exists. So if in our society a person is denied the right to earn a living that person is denied all sorts of other freedoms, liberties and opportunities which are consequent upon economic independence. 
Let us look at the employment situation in the national capital, which is ruled solely by the Fraser Government and has been ruled by it since the end of 1975. Of course, the unemployment situation in the Australian Capital Territory is much worse than the actual statistics indicate. This is because unemployed people leave the Australian Capital Territory as soon as they become unemployed if they can and if they have any prospect of finding employment elsewhere. But of course it is not possible for all unemployed people to leave. So let us take a look at the situation that has developed with respect to employment opportunities in the Australian Capital Territory since the Fraser Government has ruled this city. Since 1975 there has been a 480 per cent increase in the level of unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory. In May 1975 only 1,200 persons were registered as unemployed. In August this year over 5,800 persons were registered as unemployed. We must add to that figure all the unregistered unemployed persons we know to be suffering unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory. 
There are 5,800 persons registered as unemployed. During August this year the Commonwealth Employment Service managed to place in jobs only 8 per cent of those people who were seeking employment. The hardest hit are the young people. Last month 65 unemployed youth were seeking every job vacancy. I think that that is a ratio which probably is not worse in any other part of Australia. Since May 1975 there has been a 32 per cent decrease in the number of people working in the building and construction industry. 
The building and construction industry was the second largest employer, after the Commonwealth Government, in the Australian Capital Territory. Private industry has lost 4.6 per cent of its jobs but the labour force has grown by 12.4 per cent, that is 1 1 ,000 people. So the number of people in the Australian Capital Territory classified as not being in the labour force has increased by 6,300 or 18 per cent, whilst the number of people in work has increased by only 8 per cent. The most recent annual report of the Department of the Capital Territory shows an actual decrease in the number of Commonwealth Government employees since 1975. That is a decrease from 53,300 to 52,900 people in 1 977. The report shows a decrease in the number of civilian employees from 34,500 in 1975 to 33, 100 in 1977. 
That decrease in employment opportunities in the public sector in the Australian Capital Territory is not significant only in terms of" the hardship it imposes on those people who have lost their jobs or who cannot find jobs; it is significant also because it means that the level of public services being made available to Australian Capital Territory citizens has declined quite drastically. As a locally elected senator- a representative of this community- I am very much aware of the long delays in attending to very urgent matters, such as processing housing applications, processing applications for emergency housing for homeless families, processing applications for emergency welfare assistance from women who have been deserted or from homeless youth or any other person in urgent need of assistance. In all these crucial areas, where the Public Service should be offering efficient and effective assistance, that assistance has deteriorated in its quality because of the decline in the number of persons who are working in the relevant areas. 
When we turn to the private sector what do we find? Ironically, private sector employees and employers in the Australian Capital Territory have suffered under the Liberal Government in a way which would never have been possible under a Labor government. During the past year we have seen a remorseless decline in the construction industry in Canberra. This decline has had profound effects on many other areas of commercial life and has caused considerable social dislocation and unemployment. Despite the fact that evidence to this effect has been available ever since the Fraser Government came into office, last year the Fraser Government made it almost impossible for anybody to get a Commissioner for Housing loan. By reducing to $232 a week the combined income level for eligibility for this loan the Government virtually cut off government finance for home buyers. It would be quite evident to honourable senators present that there would be many families whose combined income might be slightly in excess of $232 a week but who would in no way be able to qualify for private housing finance. 
The introduction of this severe eligibility test for Commissioner for Housing loans has meant a collapse in the demand for government housing and, indeed, a total standstill in the Government's home building program in the Australian Capital Territory. Last year only 200 government houses were built, compared with 862 houses in 1975. Public works programs have slowed down and planned construction projects show no signs of going ahead. Because skilled builders and trades people cannot get work they are leaving Canberra. Last financial year 50.5 per cent fewer indentured apprentices were taken on in the building and construction industry. The building industry employs 10 per cent of the total Australian Capital Territory work force and it indirectly affects the jobs of many more people. It is vital that the downturn in the industry is arrested, otherwise we will see thousands more people out of work. 
It is imperative that immediate action is taken to stimulate the construction industry. Income levels to determine eligibility for government loans for home buyers should be set at a realistic level. A program of public works should be set in train to include, for example, the sealing of rural roads in the Australian Capital Territory, the construction of a bridge at Tharwa, the realignment of the coast road and the construction of the Belconnen Health Centre. These are all projects for which the community has great need and which could usefully be developed at this stage. The development of these projects would create employment opportunities in the most depressed area of employment in the Australian Capital Territory. The underlying cause of the slump in Canberra's economy and the decline in the building industry is this Government's obsessive cost cutting. Progress along the road back to recovery is dependent upon raising Public Service staff ceilings and providing proper services for the public. Only in this way can there be a return to the planned development of Canberra which, in turn, will give a revival of confidence to the private sector. 
When we turn to consider the Government as an employer in the Australian Capital Territory- indeed, an employer of nearly twothirds of the employees in the Australian Capital Territory- we find that the Fraser Government has a very bad record indeed. There has been a decline in real terms in public sector employment. Whilst taxes have increased and the cost to the taxpayer of services provided by the Government has increased, the services have deteriorated. The Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security are doing less to help their clients; they seem more concerned with preventing persons from getting their benefits than they are in assisting them to find employment. 
Legal aid was one of the great reforms of the Whitlam era. A few years ago we heard a commitment from the coalition parties that legal aid would be continued, but legal aid has been cut back to a point where almost no one is eligible for assistance. The Government has refused to increase the staff of the Legal Aid Office and in order to save approximately $100,000 the Government has refused to adjust Commonwealth Government employees' compensation pensions and has thus ensured deprivation for the widows and families of public servants killed in the line of duty and for those invalided out of their work. 
An example of how the Government is eroding the opportunities for public sector employment in the Australian Capital Territory is the current uncertainty with regard to the future of Medibank. At the moment approximately 400 officers are employed by Medibank in the Australian Capital Territory- 5,000 officers are employed nationally- and at least half of these officers are faced with retrenchment soon unless the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  is able to reach some satisfactory arrangement with the private funds whereby Medibank can continue to compete in a realistic way with the private funds by offering a variety of health insurance services to the public. If  Mr Hunt  is not able to achieve this end at least another 200 public servants in Canberra will be out of work. 
The argument against self-government in the Australian Capital Territory has always been that self-government would lead to an increase in charges, but if we look at what has happened in the Territory in the last three years we find that there has been a drastic increase in charges with no increase at all in community participation and decision-making with respect to the setting of those charges or, indeed, the purposes to which revenue so raised is put. At this stage Canberra people have no say at all in how their rates are set, the level of the rates and how those rates are spent. The Government treats the Australian Capital Territory as a fiefdom from which it can raise revenue at will and to which it has no responsibilities. 
This year's Budget levied an overall increase of 14 per cent on Australian Capital Territory costs and charges, and that is twice the current inflation rate. For example, revenue from parking fees has increased 153 per cent, revenue from rates has increased 9 per cent and revenue from motor vehicle registrations has increased 13 per cent. The justification offered by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  for these increases is that Canberra must pay its way but there has been no real effort by the Fraser Government to ascertain to what extent Canberra people actually do pay for the services that they get. No proper system of territorial accounts has yet been introduced into the Australian Capital Territory. The system of municipal accounting as present so far is a farce. For example, the 
Commonwealth does not pay rates on its properties in the Australian Capital Territory and, of course, it is a very extensive tenant of properties in the Territory. So we have this totally confused debate about the proper course of development for self-government in the Australian Capital Territory which is somehow dependent on the extent to which local charges will be increased, yet we still have from the Fraser Government no clear accounting procedure by which the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory can actually judge what they are paying and what they are getting in return and what any form of selfgovernment would mean in terms of increased charges or perhaps even reduced charges. 
When we turn to the education system in the Australian Capital Territory we see a very sorry sight indeed. I believe that one of the great achievements during the period of the Whitlam Government was the establishment of an independent schools authority for the Australian Capital Territory. At the time of its establishment there was a great deal of idealism about the nature of this schools system and about how it would develop into being one which was responsive to community needs, in which there was a very high degree of parent participation and professional participation by the teachers in making decisions and, indeed, in which there was a high degree of student participation in the high schools and secondary colleges. It was hoped that the Australian Capital Territory would be able to develop more options in regard to the education of children from all backgrounds and that it would be able to introduce educational innovations in areas such as assessments, the kind of education offered to senior secondary students, alternatives to traditional academic education and so forth. 
The Australian Capital Territory had become a focus for educational innovators and educational thinkers. Many of the fruits of the thoughts of these people were embodied in the early plans for an Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority. Indeed such an authority was established and a system of secondary colleges was introduced. A system of school boards with a high degree of parent and teacher participation was also introduced. We now find that the education system is foundering because of the cutback in funds by the Federal Government and more particularly because of the totally irrational, across the board, rigid, inflexible staff ceilings policy. If we are to have in the Australian Capital Territory the son of education system for which people across the community express support we cannot operate on a rigid staff ceilings basis. 
Another element which is of significance in the provision of educational services in the Australian Capital Territory is the high proportion of children in our schools who were not born in Australia or whose parents were not born in Australia and do not speak English in the home. This is one of the factors which makes it very desirable that there be a particularly flexible and community-responsive education system, but again the ideals of providing multi-cultural education for children from different ethnic backgrounds in the Australian Capital Territory has foundered because of the staff ceilings policy. Of course, the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  has been extremely defensive and perhaps less than frank in his responses to criticism from teachers and parents in the community in the Australian Capital Territory with regard to the staff ceilings policy. The Minister for Education has claimed that the staff ceiling for the next year will be the same as for last year, but if schools are to be run on the same formula and staff-student ratio as has been established in the Australian Capital Territory then currently there is a need for at least an extra 34 staff members. It would appear that the Minister for Education intends to change that formula and to reduce the staff-student ratio. It would also appear that it is the intention of the Minister for Education that there will be cuts in regard to the secondary colleges. 
I point out that at the moment the secondary colleges are not only serving in the traditional way that final school years institutions have served- that is, to prepare students for higher education or subsequent education- but also are serving, because of the wide range of courses they are able to offer students, as a preparation for the work force. They are also serving to provide practical assistance in vocational guidance and counselling for those students who will leave school to seek employment at the end of the school year. At a time of record youth unemployment the role of the secondary colleges in preparing students for the work force cannot be underestimated. Yet it would now appear to be the intention of the Minister for Education to cut back in this very vital area of the last two years of schooling of Australian Capital Territory students- the years which are crucial to them, particularly if they are to leave the education system and seek employment. The Minister talks about setting up a review, but from his point of view he seems to be using this as an excuse for the reduction in the provision of staff in secondary colleges. 
The parents of school students in the Australian Capital Territory have not been unaware of the changes in policy during the period of the Fraser Government. There have been many complaints from parent organisations in the Australian Capital Territory. As a locally elected representative of the Australian Capital Territory, I am contacted daily by parents and citizens organisations which are expressing their concern about the disorganisation, the decline in standards and the failure of the Government to respond to the real education needs of the children of the Australian Capital Territory. Some of the major complaints that I have received from parent and teacher organisations are as follows: Firstly, teaching standards or educational standards are under threat because of staff ceilings. As I have just said, staff numbers are not to be increased even at a time when there will be an increase in the school population and an increase in the number of schools and staff numbers to be administered by the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority. 
The conditions of employment of teachers will deteriorate. In fact, they have deteriorated. This leads to a lowering of the morale of teachers and, of course, a decline in professional standards. The allocation announced in the Howard Budget of $2. 8m represents a real cut in expenditure of 3 per cent. The library maintenance scheme for the Australian Capital Territory is not being satisfactorily administered. The amount allocated, $5 per student, is well below the assessed need of $16 per student. Of course, the allocation of $16 per student is more typical of the levels operating outside the Australian Capital Territory than the amount of $5 per student. The Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority is still in its early stages yet its development as an administrative body and as a body developing curriculum and advice for teachers has been cut back by the staff ceilings policy. Serious deficiencies in Australian Capital Territory education can be found also in areas such as the textbook allowance and additional staff for literacy and numeracy, multicultural education, career education and counselling. 
One of the things that we hoped for when  Mr Ellicott  became Minister for the Capital Territory was some progress in the area of law reform. Indeed,  Mr Ellicott,  on assuming his portfolio, promised that the community could expect reform in several areas. In particular, he undertook to investigate and act quickly in the area of legislation relating to rape laws. He made an immediate commitment, publicly as well as privately, to make progress in this area. Yet here we are in 1 978 and there is still no sign of progress in this area. The local Rape Crisis Centre was not consulted or invited to join in discussions about changes in legislation for the Australian Capital Territory. There has been a failure on the part of officers of the Minister's Department to consult with the local police and hospital staff on this very urgent issue and no women's groups have been invited to participate in discussion. 
The major failure in the area of law reform has been the failure of the Fraser Government to honour its promise to bring a measure of selfgovernment to the Australian Capital Territory. The objective of some form of self-government for the Australian Capital Territory has been pursued by Australian Capital Territory citizens since 1932. We are still waiting for a degree of self-government in this Territory. After the issuing by the former Minister for the Capital Territory of a number of very confusing proposals we had hoped for a clarification of this situation and for some progress from the current Minister,  Mr Ellicott.  However, in recent weeks  Mr Ellicott  has added to the confusion, first of all by putting out a statement saying that there would be held simultaneously a referendum with regard to the wishes of Australian Capital Territory citizens in respect of self-government and an election for some form of legislative body. Of course, the contradictions in this proposal were immediately recognised by the community and there was a great deal of complaint. Now the Minister has changed his mind and has offered a referendum to the community this year on the issue of selfgovernment and an election for some form of self-government next year. However, this backing down does not satisfy the criticisms that have been made. 
To sum up the situation, the people in the Australian Capital Territory have been faced in the last three years with increasing charges in every area- the municipal, State and federal-type areas- with increasing unemployment, and with drastic changes in the development and the growth of Canberra. In all this situation the locally elected representatives of the Australian Capital Territory- that is, the members of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly- have had no say whatsoever. This is a travesty of democracy and the proposals put up by the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Ellicott,  do not reduce the nature of that travesty. What we have is simply more confusion. It would seem that the Government yet again is retracting one of its major promises, at least here in the Australian Capital Territory- that is, to proceed to some form of Territorial government. I notice that my colleague from the Australian Capital Territory,  Senator Knight,  is in the chamber at this time. I wonder what comments he will have to make about the failure of the Government of which he is a supporter to honour its promises to introduce some form of self-determination to the Australian Capital Territory. The situation is entirely unsatisfactory. 
The situation in regard to the basic services in the Australian Capital Territory- education, health, employment opportunities and employment training opportunities- has become totally chaotic. What we want from the Government is some clear indication of its policy for the future of the Australian Capital Territory. Is the Australian Capital Territory to have any status at all as a national capital? Has it any future as a growth centre or is it simply to become a skeleton of the bureaucracy providing services for bureaucrats in other parts of Australia? These are very serious issues which I raise tonight. Perhaps they are not issues of very great interest to other honourable senators who are naturally enough preoccupied with the States from which they come. But I raise these matters tonight at this stage because, as I have said, there is only one tier of government in the Australian Capital Territory and that is the Federal Government. There is only one forum in which the aspirations and the disappointments of the 200,000 citizens of the Australian Capital Territory can be discussed. I raise these matters tonight in the Senate to bring to the attention of honourable senators from other parts of Australia just what has happened in the Australian Capital Territory and to point out, by this very sorry example, what kind of administration the Fraser Government runs all by itself when it has no other State government to blame or from which to seek assistance. 
We have a critical situation in the Australian Capital Territory in terms of the overall development of this nation. Canberra is the nation's capital. More importantly, from my point of view, we have a critical situation in terms of the future of the hundreds of thousands of families who live and work in the Territory, whose children have been borne here and who would have hoped a few years ago to have their futures here. We do not know what the future of the Australian Capital Territory is. We do not know what the future of our children in the schools will be. We want answers from the Government and we would hope to have them in the course of this parliamentary session. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Webster)  adjourned. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
The Opposition welcomes the appearance of this report which we have been awaiting anxiously for some time. However, we have many reservations about the report and about the task force which produced it. Of course, the Opposition will study the report in detail before making any policy statement on it. However, I would like to mention at this stage some of the major reservations which are held by the Opposition and, I believe, by the wide community in respect of the report insofar as we have had time to study it. 
First of all, the issue of costs of a communications satellite system has not been dealt with satisfactorily in the report. Of course, the most obvious evidence of that is that the Department of Finance, which was a party to the task force, has brought down a dissenting report. According to the Department of Finance, adequate consideration has not been given to the costing for a national satellite communications system. In the dissenting report put in by the Department of Finance, the view is expressed that there is no evidence that the cost of a satellite system would be justified in terms of the marginal benefits it would bring to the community. 
The Opposition's second area of serious reservation concerns the lack of public and industry involvement in the task force which made the report. The membership of the task force was quite unrepresentative of the industry. This is a matter which I raised from time to time in the Senate but which was never accommodated by the Government. There was no involvement of the Australian broadcasting system in the task force. No member of the Australian Broadcasting Commission was included in the membership of that task force. In our view, that was a major omission. In fact, there were no broadcasters at all on the task force which inquired into this satellite system. That again was a major omission, given that the most radical effect of introducing a satellite communications system would be to change completely the nature of the broadcasting industry in this country. Indeed, I was pleased to see that in the body of the report there is an admission that members of the public have inadequate understanding of the issues involved in setting up a satellite communications system. I point out that the semi-secret nature of the inquiry conducted by the task force did nothing to assist in public understanding of the issues involved. However, as the report calls for more public understanding of the issues, I hope that the Minister will take adequate steps to see that the public has an opportunity to become informed of them and to discuss them. 
Another major reservation of the Opposition in regard to the task force report is the role of Telecom Australia. As honourable senators probably know, Telecom spent 1 5 years studying and researching the issue of establishing a satellite communications system for Australia. It presented a report on the results of this research in 1976. In that year Telecom, which had conducted this extensive research, found that there was no case, at that stage, to progress towards establishing a satellite system. It seems to us that the task force in its inquiries did not give adequate weight to the Telecom research. 
Another important point which should be considered in regard to Telecom's involvement in this issue is that at this stage Telecom has $6, 500m invested in the current communications system, which is called the earth system or the terrestrial system. That is a huge public investment. The report does not consider adequately the impact that a satellite system would have on this huge public investment. That is another area in relation to which the Opposition would like to see much greater detail provided, more research and more public discussion. While I am talking about costs, I would like to query the cost efficiency of spending a quarter of a million dollars on this task force report- that is what it cost- when the results of the report do little more than duplicate research that has already been carried out by Telecom. 
The other serious reservations that the Opposition has are in the areas of the social and economic implications of introducing a satellite system. The report does not give enough consideration to these matters. The report does not give adequate consideration to the employment implications of setting up an entirely new communications broadcasting system in Australia. A communications satellite system, as recommended by the report, would have a data transmission facility. The use of this facility by bodies such as banks, insurance companies, businesses of various kinds and various sections of the communications industry would drastically reduce the need for manpower in these areas. It would particularly reduce the need for white collar clerical manpower. Of course, this is an area which is already very seriously threatened by unemployment and retrenchments as a result of other unplanned technological change. 
The question of consumer services is one which needs much further discussion than is provided in the report. The report describes how a communications satellite service could improve the provision of radio and television broadcasts in rural areas. Of course, it is the case that such services could be improved. However, there is a solid body of opinion to the effect that these services could also be improved simply by an extension of the existing ground systems; that is, they could be improved and the same effect could be achieved without the Government entering into an open-ended financial commitment to a system the cost of which is not known. But at the outset it would cost at least $190m. I would point out on this issue of extending services to rural areas that not so long ago the Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  made the very same point, that existing services could be improved by an extension of the ground system without entering into this huge financial commitment for a new satellite system. It is very important, I believe, in subsequent debate on this issue that the very real disadvantages suffered by the people living in rural areas in respect of television and radio broadcasts should not be used as an excuse to introduce a very extravagant and technologically radical new system the real advantages of which would go to the business sector. 
The question of ownership and control has been raised in the report but again this is not adequately dealt with. As far as the Opposition is concerned, the question of ownership and control of any communications facility is a basic question. The report is quite unsatisfactory in this area. It is the Opposition's view that all communications and broadcasting facilities are public property, and indeed this has been the case to date. Telecom Australia, the Australian Postal Commission and the airwaves are public property, and indeed the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal made that very same point when it brought down its report on self-regulation. As  Mr Gyngell,  the  Chairman  of the Tribunal, said: The airwaves are a public utility'. The system in Australia to date has been that commercial enterprises may lease these public facilities under certain terms and conditions. The Fraser Government and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  seem to have maintained this principle in respect of the procedures laid down for the Broadcasting Tribunal. The public airwaves remain a public facility. Licencees will have to apply to the Tribunal to lease the airwaves, and of course they will then have to perform in a certain way in order to retain such licences. 
However, I was very disturbed to see in the recommendations concerning ownership and control on page XIV of the report that there seems to be a suggestion of joint ownership by a consortia of users and a proposed national satellite commission. Joint ownership by commercial enterprises of a public facility would be a drastic departure from what has been the practice in Australia to date and indeed what has been the practice of the Fraser Government in respect of television and radio licences. 
The report does not appear to be, in summary, an adequate basis for government action with regard to a satellite communications system. There is a need, as is admitted in the report itself, for a full public debate on all the issuestechnological, economic, social and industrial. We believe that the Minister should facilitate such a debate, and we hope to hear some confirmation that he will. There should be debate and discussion outside as well as inside the Parliament. The debate and discussion outside the Parliament must include all of the industry representatives involved- the relevant trade unions, community groups, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and of course the general public. It is of the utmost importance to Australia that the Government not be precipitated into a commitment to a costly new communications system that would bring only marginal benefits to the community and at the same time provide the opportunity for higher profits and further monopolisation of media ownership for one major media proprietor. Pending an opportunity for the Opposition to consider this report in detail, I conclude my remarks. 
I present the following petition from 29 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. A petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth; 
That withdrawal of Government benefits under schedule 6469 for first trimester abortion would discriminate against and disadvantage the least privileged in our society. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Under no circumstances withdraw Government benefit under schedule 6469 for first trimester abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that the Minister has made a block fund allocation to the States for child care services in women's refuges? If so, will she consider allocating money directly to the Canberra women's refuge for child care purposes, or will funds be allocated to that refuge for that purpose from the funds allocated to New South Wales for child care purposes? 
by leave-  Mr President,  I acknowledge the courtesy and promptness with which you have responded to the matters I raised during the adjournment debate on Thursday, 21 September, concerning the role of the Parliamentary Library, However, I must say at this stage that the reply you have just given is not a satisfactory reply to the matters I raised. In particular, I refer you to a sentence in the fourth paragraph of your answer in which you said: 
The Parliamentary Library deals in 'published or publishable information' and it has never had authority to command access to information which a government department or authority may not wish to divulge. 
The exact point I made in the adjournment debate was that the information that the Parliamentary Library was seeking at my request did fit into the category of published or publishable information. Some of it had been published in prior annual reports and certainly all of it was publishable. I sought the information from the Library rather than going through the lengthy process of analysing annual reports and things of that kind. I believe that the information I sought regarding expenditure by the Department of Social Security on child care and the numbers of public servants under the staff ceilings policy, which I sought from the Public Service Board, was published or publishable information and therefore should have been available automatically. There is an implication in your reply that if there has been no change of policy with regard to the Parliamentary Library there has been a change of policy with regard to Ministers in that they are now directing officers in their departments not to release information which formerly was released automatically to the Parliamentary Library. I seek a further comment on that from you or perhaps from the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick). 
As to your advice that when a Parliamentary Library officer is unsuccessful in obtaining information for a member or senator, that member or senator has recourse to asking a question of the relevant Minister, I simply repeat what I said in the adjournment debate. That mechanism is unsatisfactory when the senator or member needs the information urgently. I have had questions on the Notice Paper since March or April this year and other honourable senators have had unanswered questions on the Notice Paper from as early as February this year. I cannot accept that straightforward published or publishable information should be delayed for several months in reaching senators who are seeking the information. You say in your statement that in the case of the inquiries I asked the Parliamentary Library to make on my behalf the normal practice was followed. Do you mean by that that it is normal practice for published or publishable material to be unavailable in the Parliamentary Library at the direction of an officer of the Public Service? 
I believe that at a time when there is debate throughout the community and in the Parliament on the matter of freedom of information and a great demand by the public and members of parliament for increased access to information it is not appropriate for information available to senators and members in their Parliamentary Library to be restricted. I am still concerned that there is such restricted access by the Parliamentary Library to published or publishable material from officers of the Commonwealth Public Service and I ask for a further response from you and from the Leader of the Government in the Senate on these matters. 
I rise to support the amended motion moved by  Senator Button.  I wish to make some remarks in respect of the Archives Bill.  Senator Button  has made out a case for the reference of the Freedom of Information Bill to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and 
Legal Affairs and later this evening my colleague,  Senator Evans,  also will make some remarks about that Bill. 
The Opposition has many objections to and many reservations about the Archives Bill as it is drawn at present. There also has been concern expressed in the wider community about the nature of the Bill. In summary, our reservations are these: First of all, there is a waiting period of 30 years during which records must be kept before they will be made available to the Archives. I hope that the Committee considering this Bill will consider the possibility of reducing that waiting period to perhaps a period of 15 years. There would seem to be too many instances in which there is no case at all for such an extended period of time before Commonwealth records can pass to the Archives. We also have reservations about the ministerial powers in respect of the Archives Bill, and I will explain those reservations later on. The enormous number of exemptions of material and the nature and scope of the exemptions of material from the Archives even after the 30-year period is also a cause for concern. A major reservation which the Opposition has about the Bill is the provision relating to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It would appear from the way the Bill is currently drawn that ASIO records will never become part of the Archives accessible to the public. I will have further remarks about that matter. We are dissatisfied with the nature of the appeals provision in the legislation. Finally, I would like to make some comments about the concern expressed by historians and scholars in our community as to the effect of the very restrictive nature of some of the provisions of the Bill on the ability of historians and scholars to have access to material of historical interest. 
The Bill as it now stands establishes an organisation to be called the Australian Archives. Organisationally it will be within a department of the Commonwealth Public Service. The most likely department appears to be the Department of Home Affairs. Archives, unlike the Australian National Gallery and the National Library of Australia, will not be a statutory corporation and therefore will be liable to greater ministerial supervision and control than if it were a statutory authority. Clause 6 of the Bill gives extensive powers to Archives to enable it to perform its statutory functions. These include: 
The establishment and control of repositories; the survey, appraisal, accessioning, arrangement and indexing of Commonwealth records; publishing material which is part of the archival resources of the Commonwealth; publishing indices of archival material; authorising the disposal or destruction of Commonwealth records; training; and providing information and facilities for persons using the material of the Archives. 
The Bill provides in clause  7  for the establishment of an office of Director-General of the Australian Archives who will be a public servant. The Minister will have power to give directions to the Director-General, not inconsistent with the legislation, in relation to the exercise of his powers and duties. It seems to the Oppositionand I hope that the Committee will take note of this-that the ministerial powers are greater than are justified for material of this nature. 
We also have reservations about the nature of the Commonwealth records which will not come within the Australian Archives and handling and access to them by the public. The provisions which are discussed under the heading 'Handling and Access' do not apply to records of a Governor-General or a former GovernorGeneral; records in the possession of the Houses of Parliament or a parliamentary department; records in the possession of a court or the registry of a court; Cabinet records, including Cabinet submissions or proposed submissions and records whose disclosure would involve the disclosure of any deliberation or decision of Cabinet except any official publication of such a decision; and Executive Council records including submissions or proposed submissions and a record whose disclosure would involve the disclosure of any deliberation or advice of the Executive Council except a record which officially publishes an act of the Governor-General acting with the advice of the Executive Council. It is also possible for the regulations to exclude from the operations of these provisions records affected by secrecy or confidentiality provisions contained in other legislation. 
Clause  26  requires the transfer to the Archives of all Commonwealth records when they are no longer required and, in any case, when they are  25  years old. Clause  27  gives the Archives full and free access at all reasonable times to all Commonwealth records in the custody of another Commonwealth institution. However, there are exemptions. Two kinds of records will be exempted. We would wish the Committee to re-examine these exemptions. The two kinds of records that will be exempted are records with a continuing administrative purpose which could not be met if the records were transferred to the 
Archives and records of a highly secret or confidential nature relating to matters of defence, security or international relations. Any Commonwealth institution may, with the Director-General's consent, exempt some or all of its records from the requirements of clauses  26  and  27  and clause  28 ( 1).  It is also open to the Minister responsible for the records in question to exempt some or all of the records of a Commonwealth institution although he must notify the Archives. 
Clause  28 (8)  provides that the concurrence of the Director-General is not required to exempt the Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation records if the Director-General of ASIO determines that they should be exempt. This subclause implies that such exemption can also apply without the consent of the Minister responsible for ASIO records. That is the major objection of the Opposition to the Archives Bill at this time. There is virtually a total exemption of ASIO records- records that are  30  years old. Exemption can be made by the Director-General of ASIO alone with no notification of the Director-General of Archives and no notification of the Minister responsible for the records. This provision is totally unacceptable to the Opposition and I believe to the wider community. I hope it is one which will be changed once the Bill comes under review. 
No one is opposing the reference, as  Senator Baume  says. But I would inform  Senator Baume  that I am taking the opportunity presented at this stage to place on record my objections with regard to the Archives Bill.  1  am not a member of the standing committee of the Senate which will examine the legal and constitutional aspects. Therefore I am placing on record my objections in the hope- not the vain hope- that the committee will amend these matters. 
I refer to an article which appeared in National Times of 4 February this year which demonstrates how ASIO records are kept permanently away from public access. The article states: 
ASIO is one Government department that does not accept the normal requirement that Commonwealth departments deposit their old files with the Australian Archives. 
The last ASIO deposit was in 1964 but it seems that even then a lot of material was withheld. To check this we sought to find if ASIO files on a number of prominent radicals from the Left and the Right had been deposited. 
The people we selected were Jack Lang (former NSW Premier), P. R. Stephenson (Australia First Movement), 
L. Sharkey (Communist Party) and  Adela  Pankhurst Walsh (interned for Japanese sympathies during World War II). All these people are now dead and none had been politically active for some time, so there seemed to be no reason for ASIO to retain their files. All were recorded on the Archives' massive security card index as having a number of files. The result: none had been deposited. 
I cite that example of the degree to which ASIO files are being withheld even from the Archives currently. The provisions, as I have explained, in the Bill as it is now drawn up would continue a situation in which no ASIO records ever got into the Archives or were made available to the public, no matter how old they were if the DirectorGeneral of ASIO so determined. That is our major objection. 
Clause 30 contains a general requirement that the Archives make all Commonwealth records in the open access period available for public access. The open access period is the period which commences 30 years from the end of the year in which the record came into existence. Of course, there are exclusions from this requirement. Again I would submit that no case has been made by the Minister for an exemption period of 30 years. Also the list of exemptions- I will not go through them now because the Senate has other business to deal with- is too long. It includes exemptions for which no case has been made out. For example, one of the areas of exemption is information whose disclosure would prejudice Commonwealth-State relations. I hope that the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs will examine that exemption. I find it difficult to conceive information of that kind which was 30 years old and which would prejudice CommonwealthState relations. I believe that the Government must make out a case for exempting such material when it is 30 years old. In fact, the exemptions are basically the same as those contained in the Freedom of Information Bill 1 978 although they are fewer in number. The Opposition has even greater objections to the exemptions contained in the Archives Bill than to those contained in the Freedom of Information Bill because of the age of the material- 30 years. 
By clause 33 the Director-General is required, in consultation with the Minister responsible for the relevant records or a person authorised by the Minister, to make arrangements for determining which records in the open access period are to be treated as exempt records. He may also determine to what extent partial access to exempt records may be granted without disclosing the information which requires the records to be exempt. Determinations under this procedure are to be reviewed at appropriate intervals, having regard to the nature of the records and any other relevant circumstances. Identification of exempt records may also take place before they enter the open access period. These procedures determining what records are exempt may be either overridden or by-passed where a Minister is satisfied that a record contains information or matter in the first three exemption categories listed. Again we draw attention to this matter. It seems to give too great a power to the Minister to override or by-pass the provisions for access. 
When we proceed to the procedure relating to appeals, again we find an unsatisfactory situation. The Minister may sign a certificate to the effect that certain material is exempt. While the certificate remains in force, it establishes conclusively that the record is an exempt record under the relevant clause, clause 31. The effect of this conclusive certificate is to prevent the Administrative Appeals Tribunal from reviewing the decision to give the certificate or the existence of proper grounds for the giving of the certificate. The Minister gives the certificate, the material remains exempt, and then the Minister does not have to justify his decision, nor can it be appealed against. This is a major shortcoming. 
The Tribunal is prevented from reviewing a decision to give a conclusive certificate or the existence of proper grounds for the giving of the certificate. This applies to ministerial certificates of exemption because of prejudice to defence, security or international relations, breach of government to government confidences and prejudice to Commonwealth-State relations. It also applies to certificates given by the Governor-General's official secretary that records are those of the Governor-General; certificates from the Secretary to the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet that a document is a Cabinet record; and to a certificate by a secretary to the Executive Council that a document is an Executive Council record. In proceedings before the Tribunal the onus of establishing that a record is an exempt record rests upon the person so claiming. 
I have gone into some detail as to the nature of the Opposition's reservations about this Bill. In summary we would hope that the Committee would examine the length of time that material must be in the possession of the Commonwealth before it is transferred to the archives, the ministerial powers which are too great, the exemptions which are too extensive and in some cases not justified at all, the total exemption for ASIO material, the unsatisfactory nature or the limited nature of the appeals provisions against certificates of exemption. Finally, I make the point that historians and scholars will be prevented from having access to material of historical importance. 
I refer briefly to an article on this subject which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 2 1 September. In this article Monash University historian Professor A. G. L. Shaw explains how the Archives Bill, as it is drawn at present, would prevent proper scholarship by historians. He says that the question of what is a Commonwealth record and what are private papers does not seem to have been answered properly in the legislation. There are several other objections that the professor has to the nature of the exemptions and the restriction. I would ask that the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs examine the reservations as expressed by Professor Shaw and take account of them when reviewing the legislation. 
The Archives Bill is an extremely important Bill. It is long overdue that the Australian nation has a proper systematic archival system. I would urge very strongly that the Committee review all these unsatisfactory aspects so that in establishing a national archive system we are in fact establishing a system of access by the public and scholars to archival material and not a system which restricts even further than the situation at present access to such records. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 1978, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 16 of 1 978, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration ) Act 1 9 1 0, be disallowed. 
In the light of the answer the Minister for Education just gave, I ask him whether he said on 16 March 1 976: 
There will be no second best. There is no question of levelling down. If the Australian Capital Territory is ahead of the States in education, then our job is to bring the States up and to the standard of the Australian Capital Territory and as well to let the Territory move ahead. 
I ask the Minister whether he said further: 
This does not mean, of course, that the Government will not continue to support government schools in the ACT at a high level, or that current levels of resource use will be allowed to decline. 
I ask the Minister: How does he reconcile those statements, if indeed they were his words of 16 March 1976, with the current situation in which the levels of resources allocated to Australian Capital Territory government schools have been allowed to decline? 
I present the following petition from 37 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of N.S.W. and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1 979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
. Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5% in real terms on base level programmes for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Acting Clerk-  Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows: 
I move: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 1978, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 1 6 of 1 978, and made under the Seat of Government ( Administration)Act 1910, be disallowed. 
I have moved for the disallowance of the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 16 of 1 978 which was tabled on 1 5 August this year. At the outset I urge honourable senators to consider my purpose in doing this. I point out that I am not wishing to canvass the issue of abortion laws; nor am I wishing to canvass the issue of abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory. This is not the proper forum or the proper occasion for such a discussion. I have a very limited purpose in moving the motion of disallowance. I have moved it because the Ordinance defies a principle of self-government; it defies a democratic principle in its present form. 
The Ordinance, in its present form, has been brought in by the Government in order to circumvent the clearly expressed wishes of the people of Canberra and their elected representatives on the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. It embodies a very bad principle of legislation; that is, to legislate on a grave and controversial matter by the expedient of changing a temporary ordinance brought in for a very restricted purpose into a permanent ordinance which has a much broader and, indeed, a different purpose. In bringing in the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 1978, the Government has flouted the democratic principle and reneged on its own promise, given when the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  said: 
We have decided as a government, and quite rightly so, that matters relating to the Australian Capital Territory, matters that have great social consequence and matters that have wide-ranging consequences for the people in this community will be debated, discussed and decided by those people who were elected by the local community. I pay full credit to the way in which members of the Legislative Assembly have faced up to taking decisions . . . 
That was a reply by  Mr Hunt  on this matter on 24 March 1977. He proceeded to say: 
I conclude by saying that the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly voted to ban abortions outside the recognised hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory for a 90-day period during which time it will debate the wider issues and take decisions in respect of the way in which abortions will be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Honourable senators will understand from those words of  Mr Hunt  that the Government had promised the people of Canberra that they could decide through their elected body, the Legislative Assembly, the manner in which abortions would be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory. The Legislative Assembly was charged by the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  with deciding whether there should be independently run abortion clinics or special abortion clinics run by the Capital Territory Health Commission or whether there should be no abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The Ordinance to which I am referring now was brought in originally as a temporary measure to prevent the establishment of abortion clinics while the Legislative Assembly debated the issue and came to its own decision on the question. It was brought in as a temporary measure, and the words of  Mr Hunt  support that. It was brought in originally as a 90-day temporary ordinance so that there would be no development in the matter of establishing abortion clinics while the Legislative Assembly debated the matter and came to a decision. It was quite proper that the temporary ordinance should have been brought in. I had no opposition to it and the Legislative Assembly had no opposition to it. 
The Legislative Assembly did fulfil the responsibility with which it was charged by the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt.  It did debate the question. Its deliberations were exhaustive and considered. It conducted a public inquiry to which all members of the community had access. As a result, it brought down a report making 47 recommendations with regard to the establishment of abortion clinics in the ACT. One of these recommendations opposed the establishment of privately run abortion clinics. Another one, which was the major recommendation because most of the others related to it, recommended the setting up of a special abortion clinic under the control of the Capital Territory Health Commission and within the grounds of a public hospital. It went into great detail as to how this clinic should operate, how it should be administered, staffing, what sort of counselling procedures it should carry out and so on. 
The Legislative Assembly recommendation that a special abortion clinic should be set up is an accurate reflection of the wishes of the people of Canberra. For example, in May 1977 an Australian National Opinion Polls survey conducted in the Australian Capital Territory investigated community attitudes towards abortion and the establishment of abortion clinics in Canberra. This survey showed that, in answer to the question 'Do you think Canberra should or should not have clinics where doctors carry out abortions under suitable medical conditions?', 70 per cent of the respondents said yes and only 24 per cent said no. It is interesting to note that in the same survey many of the people who did not favour easier abortion laws did favour the setting up of a special abortion clinic. So the people of Canberra, both through their elected representatives and in reputable opinion polls, have made very clear their wish for a quality medical facility for early term abortions. 
But the Government having so forthrightly proclaimed the democratic right of the people of Canberra to decide this issue for themselves, now has completely disregarded their wishes. As I have said, the Legislative Assembly report made 47 recommendations to the Government, concerning mostly the establishment of a public clinic administered by the Health Commission. In response to this, the Government has ignored 46 of the recommendations- the major recommendations- and has acted on only one of the recommendations. The Government has brought in this Ordinance as a permanent measure to prevent the establishment of any abortion clinics, whether they be privately or publicly controlled. It has been claimed that this Ordinance with which we are dealing today does carry out one of the recommendations of the Legislative Assembly report. That is only partly true. It is not a precise expression of recommendation No. 2 in the Legislative Assembly report which states: 
That a permanent Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance be made to ensure that private free-standing abortion ciincs do not operate in the Australian Capital Territory. 
That happens to be a recommendation which I personally support, although that is not the issue at stake at the moment. That recommendation was made and it is true that the Ordinance does partly implement recommendation No. 2. But it goes further than that. Clause 3 (2) of the Ordinance states: 
A registered medical practitioner shall not carry out treatment for the termination of a pregnancy otherwise than at a hospital conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
That is the provision of the Ordinance which is supposed to implement recommendation No. 2 of the Legislative Assembly report. Of course, it does that. Clause 3 (2) will prevent the opening of private abortion clinics. I have no argument with that. But it is so worded as to prevent also the establishment and administration of a public abortion clinic as recommended in the Legislative Assembly report. The Ordinance cannot be claimed to represent accurately or precisely even that one recommendation of the report, although it does so partially. 
It appears that, rather than respect the democratic decision of the Australian Capital Territory's elected representatives, the Government has made the temporary ordinance permanent. The temporary ordinance has served its purpose. Its purpose was to prevent the establishment of a commercial clinic while the matter was being discussed. That was the only purpose it had when it was brought in. It has served that purpose and, in my view, it now should be allowed to expire. A new ordinance should be prepared and introduced by the Government, incorporating the 47 recommendations of the Legislative Assembly report. Any other course of action should be repugnant to anybody who believes in the rights and responsibilities of democratic government. It should also be repugnant to any senator who has championed the cause of selfgovernment for the Australian Capital Territory. It would seem that the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  has preferred the advice of Cabinet, a group of men who are not answerable to the people of the Australian Capital Territory, to that of the representatives of the community affected by his decision. Contrary to his earlier undertaking made publicly in the Parliament he has not allowed the people of the Australian Capital Territory to decide on this grave and sensitive issue. For the purpose of stressing to honourable senators the undertaking which was made by the Minister for Health on this matter, I read again what  Mr Hunt  said: 
We have decided as a government, and quite rightly so. that matters relating to the Australian Capital Territory, matters that have great social consequence and matters that have wide-ranging consequences for the people in this community will be debated, discussed and decided by those people who were elected by the local community. 
I ask the Senate for support of my motion. I hope that all senators will agree with me that the principle at issue is the right of all Australian citizens to democratic government and that a Minister who has given publicly an undertaking in the way that the Minister for Health has done should keep that undertaking. I urge the Senate to support my motion to disallow the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 1978. I point out that the effect of my motion would not be irresponsible. It has been claimed already by some outside groups that the effect of disallowing this motion would be to allow the flourishing of private abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory. That would not be the case unless the Government decided to act in a grossly irresponsible manner. 
I point out very carefully that what I expect the Senate and the Government to do is to disallow this ordinance on the grounds that it does not fulfil the undertaking given by  Mr Hunt,  it does not reflect the wishes of the Legislative Assembly and it does not embody the 47 recommendations of the Legislative Assembly report. Therefore this ordinance which was to be only a temporary ordinance in the first place should be disallowed. During the period of time that this matter will be resolved the Government should develop and present to the Parliament a permanent ordinance which will honour its promise to the people of Canberra that their elected representatives will take decisions in respect of the way in which abortions will be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I urge all honourable senators to consider this matter very seriously and to consider it in the proper terms. The terms are not, as I said at the outset, the rights or wrongs of abortion clinics. Those matters have been canvassed by the Legislative Assembly. The point at issue is this: The Legislative Assembly was asked to report on a certain grave and sensitive matter. It carried out its task in good faith; it reported. The Government, through the Minister for Health, had made a prior undertaking to accept that report. I believe that it has a responsibility now to accept that report even though some honourable senators may object to the recommendations contained in it. I remind honourable senators that there is at this stage only one effective tier of government in the Australian Capital Territory. The Legislative Assembly is not a self-governing body. We still do not have from the Government proper decisions with regard to delegation of powers to the Legislative Assembly. This matter must be raised in the Federal Parliament because it is the only tier of government in which decisions affecting the Legislative Assembly can be made at this stage. 
I do not wish to involve the Senate in matters beyond its jurisdiction, but at this stage the ordinance related to these matters must be allowed or disallowed by the Senate. I urge honourable senators not to be led astray and not to be confused by what I have moved in this chamber today. I have not moved anything relating to the laws affecting abortions or the facilities provided for them. I have moved disallowance of an ordinance which should not have been presented in its present form. I have done so in the hope that if my motion is successful- if this ordinance is disallowed- the Government will accept its responsibility, will fulfil its promise and will bring down an ordinance which all honourable senators can support because it will incorporate all the recommendations by the Legislative Assembly, reflecting the wishes of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is the motion seconded? 
Motion (by  Senator Carrick)  agreed to: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Carrick)  agreed to. 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for Tuesday, 7 November 1 978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 September 1978. 
Are amniocentesis tests available to all pregnant women who wish to have them, or are there guidelines which restrict eligibility for the tests; if so, what are the guidelines. 
What are the criteria under which pregnant women may claim the cost of amniocentesis tests from the various health insurance schemes. 
How many hospitals and clinics are equipped to provide amniocentesis tests, and where are they situated. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. It refers to the decision by the Government to tax post graduate scholarships. I remind honourable senators that the basic scholarship allowance is $4,200 per annum. Is the Minister aware that this decision will result in a drop in income of an average of 1 5 per cent for post graduate scholars? Is this decision an attempt by the Government to force more students out of universities on to the oversaturated job market in order to develop some sort of justification for its failure to maintain funding for growth at a minimum of two per cent as promised by the Minister at the outset of the rolling triennium of 1 976? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and follows the question asked by  Senator Knight  regarding the charge by the Chief Magistrate,  Mr Kilduff,  that there has been a decline in the quality of justice in the Australian Capital Territory. I ask the AttorneyGeneral a further question because I find his reply to  Senator Knight's  question quite unsatisfactory, given the serious nature of the charge made by  Mr Kilduff.  I now ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he will inform himself and the Senate about the length of delays in court hearings, the amount of time wasted by public employees such as police officers because of these delays and the increased legal costs caused to citizens because of these delays. 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
Following  Senator Grimes'  personal explanation, I simply would like to add that I also have been misrepresented in the same article referred to by  Senator Grimes,  an article appearing on page 3 of today's Hobart  Mercury,  in which it is claimed that I along with some of my Australian Labor Party colleagues am, to quote from the article, openly promoting the establishment of private abortion clinics and that I have some interest in a proposal to establish private abortion clinics thereby commercialising the termination of pregnancy. I have never supported and do not at this stage support the establishment of private abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory. When I moved the motion for disallowance of the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance I made that quite clear. I wish to quote now from what I said when I moved that motion. I referred to recommendation No. 2 in the Legislative Assembly report which states: 
That a permanent Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance be made to ensure that private free-standing abortion clinics do not operate in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I said: 
That happens to be a recommendation which I personally support . . . 
Further on in the same speech I said:   the provision of the Ordinance which is supposed to implement recommendation No. 2 of the Legislative Assembly report . . . does that. Clause 3 (2) will prevent the opening of private abortion clinics. I have no argument with that. But it is so worded as to prevent also the establishment and administration of a public abortion clinic as recommended in the Legislative Assembly report. 

 Mr President, the particular ordinance is currently under consideration by the Senate and will be resolved at a later date when presumably I will be able to repeat my position. I simply repeat now the words of  Senator Grimes  that it is highly irresponsible for a newspaper such as the  Mercury  to publish such a misleading article when the subject of the article is a matter of grave concern to all Australians. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
Were women officers in the Defence forces granted equal pay on 1 9 May 1 978, and was it decided that equal pay would be back-dated to 5 January 1978. 
Why have women officers still not received equal pay, and when can they expect to receive it. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refer to an article, which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  yesterday, written by Isabel Lukas, the ethnic affairs reporter for that newspaper. It claims that the Special Broadcasting Service is considering a major reorganisation of ethnic radio which could involve the dismissal of about 400 broadcasters, co-ordinators and contributors in Sydney and Melbourne. I ask the Minister: Is the sacking of these 400 people intended by the special Broadcasting Service? If so, why is it so? What is the intention of the Government in regard to ethnic community participation in the future administration of the Special Broadcasting Service, in the appointment of co-ordinators for the service and in the development of programming policy by the Special Broadcasting Service. 
I seek the indulgence of the Senate to make a personal explanation. In today's  Canberra Times  there appeared a serious allegation about me. The allegation was that I had misled the Senate. I regard that as a very serious matter. I have not misled the Senate. I seek briefly to correct the allegation that was made. It appeared in a letter to the Editor of the  Canberra Times  signed by Kathleen Woolf, the  President  of the ACT Right to Life Association. The letter stated: 
.  Senator Ryan  was quite wrong in claiming in the Senate that private abortion clinics could not open in the ACT if her motion was successful. She now acknowledges this serious error . . . 

 Senator Ryan has misled the Senate, she has misled your newspaper, she has misled the public. 
I have not misled the Senate in this or any other matter. From the outset, when I moved the motion for disallowance of the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance in the Senate I made it quite clear that the successful passage of my motion for disallowance of what I consider to be an unsatisfactory ordinance would require the Government to bring in another ordinance which satisfied the undertaking given by  Mr Hunt  to the Parliament. I made this matter quite clear in my speech to the Senate on 1 1 October 1978 when I moved the disallowance motion. I quote from that speech to set the record straight. I said: 
I urge the Senate to support my motion to disallow the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 1978. 1 point out that the effect of my motion would not be irresponsible . . . During the period of time that this matter will be resolved the Government should develop and present to the Parliament a permanent ordinance which will honour its promise to the people of Canberra that their elected representatives will take decisions in respect of the way in which abortions will be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory ... I have moved disallowance of an ordinance which should not have been presented in its present form. I have done so in the hope that if my motion is successful- if this ordinance is disallowed- the Government will accept its responsibility, will fulfil its promise and will bring down an ordinance which all honourable senators can support because it will incorporate all the recommendations by the Legislative Assembly . . . 
I take the time of the Senate simply to point out, by quoting my words, that I have not misled the Senate and that my remarks on this matter have been consistent in the Senate and in any public statements that I have made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) How did the Department of Defence arrive at its decision, set out in the answer to Question No. 466  (Hansard,  16 August 1978, page 1 18) to allot only 4 out of 250 vacancies for trainee technicians to women. 
Why is it necessary for the Department to run a pilot scheme to determine the viability of providing equal employment opportunities for women. 
3 ) What are the criteria to be used for determining the viability of providing equal employment opportunities. 
Are the employment practices of the Defence Department in breach of the International Labor Organisation Convention No. 1 1 1 which has been ratified by Australia and which binds the Government to a policy of nondiscrimination. 
Will action be taken to ensure equality of opportunity for women in the Defence Force. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications by pointing out that as a result of the Minister's statement in April of this year setting out the Government's policy on the development of public broadcasting, there is now tremendous enthusiasm on the part of many groups who wish to respond to the Minister's statement; further, that test broadcasts are of great value in enabling such groups to build themselves up to broadcasting standard. I ask the Minister whether a decision has been made on the allowing of test broadcasts by groups that intend to apply for public broadcasting licences. 
I raise as a matter of public importance today the following subject: 
The disruption caused to the national broadcasting services by the Government's attacks on staffing and standards within the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
As honourable senators will be aware, today 1,900 members of staff employed in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's head office are engaged in an industrial action. This is a most serious action, involving as it does the disruption of a national service on which millions of Australians depend for news and information. So honourable senators must ask what has led professional broadcasters to an action that is not lightly taken, given the commitment of ABC staff to providing the highest standard of radio and television programming for the Australian public. 
I claim that this disruptive action has been provoked by the savage cutbacks which have been imposed by this Government- cutbacks in funding and staffing which have a clear political intent, that of limiting the independence of the ABC, of hamstringing its ability to provide the independent comment and news that are essential to Australian democracy. Finally, this action has been provoked, of course; by the Government's denial to the staff association ofthe opportunity to elect a commissioner from the staff. That decision to deny a staff-elected commissioner was taken against the wishes of the ABC Staff Association, many members of the management, other members of staff and some commissioners. 
I shall now briefly review the basic facts concerning the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Fraser Government. Since 1975-76, the ABC's total Budget has been reduced by 23 per cent in real terms. Since 1 975-76 staff has been reduced by 1 , 1 00 persons, from 7,400 to 6,400- a decline of 14.4 per cent. The ABC's share of total government expenditure stands at its lowest for 20 years. This is occurring at a time when, because of new technologies, new styles of programming and increased and more vocal consumer demand, its share ought to be increasing. The Government cannot deny the impacts that these cuts have. They are all too obvious to the listener and to the viewer. This year, less than half of the 1975-76 output of Australian drama will go to air. That means that there will be no more programs like 

 Power Without Glory or series of such consistently high quality as  Rush  or  Seven Little Australians. 
In radio, the situation is equally bleak. The frequency modulation service- a service which has been so long denied the Australian publiccannot be further developed by the ABC. Lack of funds preclude program makers from exploring the exciting possibilities of this medium. Fraser Government policy limits FM broadcasting to the eastern States. A particular and strong demand has come from the State of Western Australia for FM radio but that State is to be denied this service. In the course of this debate I might ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  to explain to the Senate and to the people of Western Australia why the people of Western Australia always seem to have to miss out on these new developments and, in particular, extension of the FM service. 
The deterioration in services to the public is obvious and it is becoming daily more so. Who is responsible? It seems to the Opposition that the Government and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  are responsible for this deterioration. As happened when I raised a similar matter in the Senate in May of this year, no doubt the Government will say that my claims are unjustified and unsubstantiated. I remember that during the debate in May  Senator Carrick  pointed out that the Commission consists of 1 1 independent commissioners.  Senator Carrick  suggested that nothing could happen in the ABC without the Commission deciding upon those actions. Yet clearly the ABC is being seriously restricted in its activities to the detriment of the public interest. The Commission collectively has allowed this to happen and has allowed the Fraser Government's policy on the media to be implemented in the ABC. 
What is the media policy of the Fraser Government? It is, in part at least, a policy designed to limit dissent and comment on the coalition Government's unwelcome and illconsidered activities. When Malcolm Fraser seized power in 1 975 he made his views on the public's right to information quite clear. He promised that he would put sport back on the front pages of the newspapers. 
I remind the Senate that when he was Acting Prime Minister after the coup d d'etat and later after he was elected, he said that his idea of a properly run media was to have sport, and sport alone, on the front pages of the newspapers. What this meant was that it was the intention of Malcolm Fraser that there be less news about government, less information for the public and less comment about his dealings and those of his colleages. That has been the media policy of this Government. I ask honourable senators to note that the ABC, as the only national source of informed comment and as the only independent and open forum for debate, other than this Parliament, has been affected by this policy. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has not been an effective Minister in defending the independence and high standards of the ABC. He makes well-intentioned and seemingly authoritative statements about his and the coalition's goodwill towards the ABC. But the Minister is not in the Cabinet.  Mr Staley  waits patiently and forlornly outside the Cabinet room for  Mr Fraser, Mr Anthony, Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Nixon  to decide what they will do in relation to his portfolio. 
The Commission cannot be excused from all blame for the quality of day to day programming on the ABC. It is the Commission which is charged under the Broadcasting and Television Act with the statutory obligation to provide adequate and comprehensive programs. It is on the opinion of the Commission that the development of suitable broadcasting and television programs depend. The Commission acknowledges its powers in its report which was tabled only yesterday. On page 6 it states: 
The Commission feels obliged to point out, however, that under the provisions of  section  43 (2 ) of the Broadcasting and Television Act the number of staff employed by the ABC is a matter Tor determination by the Commission, having regard to its statutory obligations and the funds appropriated to it. 
Certainly, as the Commission points out in its report, the Commission should determine the staffing of the Commission. But in fact it has been the Government, not the Commission that has made staffing decisions about the ABC. I claim that the Commission collectively has not insisted strongly enough on exercising its statutory rights. Why has it not insisted on this? I suggest that partly the reason is that the Commission as a whole, collectively, is not broadly representative of the Australian community that it is there to serve. Of course, this is the fault of the Government, not of the commissioners. I point out that all eleven current commissioners are appointees of the Fraser Government. I do not wish to criticise individual commissioners but rather to criticise the Government of the lack of balance and continuity of service by commissioners. The Commission has now had 2 1 members in three years. This high rate of turnover is hardly in keeping with Minister Staley 's public comments which have suggested approval of a bi-partisan approach to the appointment of commissioners. I point out that not one Labor appointee to the Commission was reappointed. I make it clear that I welcome the most recent announcement in regard to three new appointees to the Commission. I believe that the decisions on those appointments were sound but I still say that the Commission as a whole is too heavily biased toward the political and social values of the coalition parties. 
To bring the debate back to today's industrial action, which is the reason why I am speaking on this subject, I draw the attention ofthe Senate to the present major imbalance on the Commission caused by the Government's denial of the appointment of a staff elected commissioner. It is that decision which has provoked today's industrial action. The Minister's public comment on the  This Day Tonight  program some weeks ago represented to me an evasion of ministerial responsibility. The Minister claimed that he would not appoint a staff elected commissioner because such a  decision somehow  would interfere with the independence of the ABC. He said that if he were invited by the commissioners to consider the appointment of a staff elected commissioner he would do so. He also claimed that there was no need, in the view of the Government, for the appointment of a staff elected commissioner because trade unionists were appointed to the Commission. All of these claims by the Minister do not answer the arguments raised by the ABC Staff Association in favour of the appointment of a staff elected commissioner. 
It is true that two commisioners with backgrounds in the trade union movement are currently on the Commission. But what happened last Wednesday when one commissioner moved that a delegation from the Staff Association be heard by the Commission in order to present the case of a staff elected commissioner? The two commissioners with trade union backgrounds,  Mr Short  and  Mr Glastonbury,  the two commissioners which  Mr Staley  claims are there in a general sense to represent the employees of the Commission, voted against the motion to allow a delegation of the Staff Association to discuss this most important matter with the Commission. So I think it is clear from the action of those two commissioners that  Mr Staley  's view about having trade unionists appointed to the Commission does not answer the case put strongly by the Staff Association for a staff elected commissioner. I must add that the Minister is evading his responsibility by trying to suggest that somehow it is the responsibility of the other members of the Commission to invite the Minister to appoint a staff elected commmissioner. In the words of another commissioner, the Minister should not use the Commission in this way to get himself off the hook with regard to the staff elected commissioner position. I endorse the view of that commissioner. 
The decision not to allow a staff elected commissioner to be appointed is bad because the Commission cannot discharge its responsibilities properly without information about the day to day concerns of its staff. The Commission will not have this day to day information about the staff without a commissioner elected by the staff. At this point in the debate I express the hope that at a future meeting the newly constituted Commission will reverse the decision of the Commission announced last Wednesday, will reopen the question ofthe appointment of a staff elected commissioner and accept  Mr Staley  's invitation to put such a proposal to him. 
I turn now to that other great conservative lever against the ABC, the complaints of left wing bias and the need for the ABC to be balanced in its programming. We should ask what conservatives mean when they talk about lack of balance and left wing bias in respect ofthe ABC. It seems to me to mean any programming which expresses a view different from Government policy; any programming that is more adventurous or serious than the norm set by the superficial and sensational current affairs reporting of commercial radio and television. As evidence of that claim I have just made I refer to the recent statement made by  Mr Anthony  regarding the ABC and the uranium debate. On 24 September  Mr Anthony  complained that the ABC had held up the commencement of uranium mining by broadcasting anti-mining views or the antimining side of the uranium debate. It would seem from  Mr Anthony's  comments that the ABC had a responsibility to present only the Government's view with regard to uranium mining. 
However, balance is defined in the Broadcasting and Television Act as 'adequate and comprehensive programs'. I would say that that means, among other things, giving the Federal Opposition, which represents about 40 per cent of the Australian people, full and fair coverage, as well as giving coverage to Government representatives. In the last  Vh  years there have been times when the ABC has done that. I have many examples and will cite a couple. The Prime Minister  (Mr Fraser)  was given 30 minutes on  AM  to discuss the Budget with members of the public who wanted to telephone the ABC. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was given  Vh  minutes on  AM  to discuss the Opposition's alternative Budget. There were two debates on the question of the cost of air fares- one on 16 June this year and one on 28 June this year- in which the Opposition spokesman, Peter Morris, was given no time at all. The shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Dr Doug  Everingham, was given no time to put the Opposition 's view on the Aurukun and Mornington Island controversies. 
With cuts in staff ceilings there is a real threat to the news service and other vital elements in the ABC's programs output. One could catalogue this deterioration in standards but the ABC report tabled yesterday is testimony to the assault which staff and funding cuts represent. ABC senior management acknowledges these difficulties in its annual report, and it underlined its concern in an Estimates committee hearing last week. A number of very serious matters were raised at that meeting- for example, the matter of educational material. The ABC can no longer afford to publish and to make available to the public transcripts of educational programs such as  The Science Show.  Senator Watson-  questioned ABC officers on this matter. In the  Hansard  record of the evidence given to Senate Estimates Committee F on 1 9 October an officer replied:  lt takes quite an effort to produce even a simple publication. 
Transcripts were being referred to. He continued: 
You need staff and as you know there has been a very large reduction in the staff of the ABC. That was one of the areas in which it was decided to cease the service. 
Another area in which services have been cut back is the area of overseas reporting. The ABC has an obligation to provide to the nation reports of news events overseas. In the course of my discussion with  Mr White-  I ani referring to the same  Hansard  record- it was revealed that there has been a cut in the staff of the ABC's New York and London offices. There are no offices in places such as Africa and the Middle East- the very important and distressing events that are taking place there have to be covered from the London office-and the offices in Wellington and Hong Kong have been closed. This is a most serious matter and I look forward to what comments the Minister will have to make on it. There have also been cuts in training. Again, it was revealed by one of the officers-Mr Bourke- that technical training is not taking place in the ABC at an adequate rate to replace the staff wastage which is occurring.  Mr Bourke  said: 
We do have concern that we are not really providing for the wastage that we could have, looking ahead a few years . . . 
Now I come to the most serious information that was revealed during that Estimates Committee F discussion. I refer to the effects of the. Government's cutbacks on programming.  Mr White,  the Assistant General Manager, Television, said: 
The prospect of further reductions in staff will have a very marked effect on the ABC television's capacity to produce Australian-made programs. We have four major network production studios and we have no activity in two of those at present. The other two large network production studios, which are in Melbourne and Sydney, are working between a four and a half and five day week. Further reductions in staff this year will lead us to consider reducing program output in many areas and it will also possibly lead to considering our ability to provide the level of coverage of outside events, including sporting events. Whereas we have maintained transmission hours at a minimum level which is considerably below that of the commercial sector we have maintained a fairly high degree of Australian content. However, we face the prospect of a much lower percentage of Australian content in ABC television in this upcoming year and a reduction in certain services which we think are very important. 
That was said by  Mr White. 
It is recorded on page 772 of the  Hansard  report of the proceedings of Estimates Committee F of 19 October. I now quote  Mr Mackriell,  Assistant General Manager, Radio. He said: 
Radio is also facing quite serious problems. I can best illustrate that by saying that the head of the Radio Public Affairs Department wrote to me recently saying, that if his Department were to be significantly eroded ... he would find it difficult not to ask that  AM  and  PM,  for example, be off the air for a month at Christmas. That is a combination of staff wastage and a recent award which has given increased leave to people in the area for which he is responsible. It is symptomatic of the quite serious problems which the ABC is going to face in meeting this new target. 
He was referring to the new staff ceiling target. He continued: 
Also, it is not my direct responsibility but it is important to let you know that in the area of our assets . . . we are now reaching the point where there has been some criticism of the way our assets have been maintained. It is not a criticism of the staff which is there; it is a criticism of the staffing level. It would be wrong for us not to refer to the seriousness which confronts the ABC at the prospect of further reduction. 

 Mr Bourke said: 
The same situation really applies in the technical operations area, the engineering department staff area. 
I would like to make quite clear that I and other Opposition members have made criticisms of this kind before, but what I have just presented to the 
Senate is the considered view of the senior management of the ABC. In conclusion. I refer again to the disruption of the services which has been provoked today by Government action. I call for adequate funding. I call for the Government to review its funding decision in relation to the ABC and to provide adequate funding to the Commission and adequate staffing, which should be determined by the Commission itself and not by a blanket staff ceiling approach of government. I call for a balanced Commission, which must include a staff elected Commissioner. Finally, in order to achieve such a major review and such restructuring, which is clearly required now in respect of our national broadcasting service, I call again for a full inquiry- a royal commissioninto the ABC. 
The Senate is debating the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) and associated Bills introduced by the Government. I rise to support the amendment moved to the motion for the second reading of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) by my colleague  Senator Grimes.  I will not proceed to make my own contribution to this debate without congratulating  Senator Hamer  who has just resumed his seat. It was most refreshing to hear such a perceptive, intelligent and thoughtful analysis of the problem of our health delivery system as has just been given by  Senator Hamer.  I have heard speeches of that kind being made in this chamber before but they have usually been made by my colleague  Senator Grimes.  I congratulate  Senator Hamer  for the excellent contribution he has made to the debate about the training of doctors, medical practice in this country, the delivery of health services, the costing of those services and so on. I am really left with very little to add after the very excellent exposition by my colleague  Senator Grimes  followed by an equally excellent exposition of the problems and the reservations regarding the new legislation by  Senator Hamer. 
However, there are some points in these Bills that are of particular interest to my constituency. 
I will now proceed to discuss those points. I address myself to the effect of the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill. This Bill changes the status of the Health Insurance Commission. It redefines the powers and functions of the Health Insurance Commission following the abolition of Medibank Standard. At present approximately 5,000 people work for Medibank. Many hundreds of those people are facing unemployment as a result of the passage of this Bill. In my constituency, the Australian Capital Territory, 400 Medibank staff are affected and it is possible that 200 of those people will lose their jobs. Clause 3 1 of this Bill provides that where staff are no longer able to be employed by the Commission the Public Service Board may attempt to redeploy such staff. This clause describes with breathtaking accuracy this Government's total indifference to the welfare of its own employees. It is also interesting if one considers the promises made by this Government before last year's general election. On 25 November 1977 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  replied to questions put to him by the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. In his letter of reply the Prime Minister said: 
It has been our express policy to avoid retrenchments and this will continue. 
Those are the words of the Prime Minister, quoted from his letter of 25 November 1977. I consider them of great consequence to this debate. I seek leave to incorporate the Prime Minister's letter in  Hansard  so that honourable senators may read for themselves precisely what the Prime Minister said in relation to Public Service retrenchments. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Prime Minister Canberra 25 November 1977 Received 28.1 1.77 a.m. 
Dear  Mr Gradwell, 
I am writing in reply to your letter of 10 November concerning the attitude of political parties to their role as potential employer of Australian Government Employees. I shall cover each of the questions which you have posed in the order they appear in your letter. 
Wage Indexation 
The Liberal National Country Party government will continue to support the principle of wage indexation, but we reserve the right to make submissions to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which are in the best interests of the nation as a whole. We will of course accept the decisions of the Commission. 
As you are aware, the Commission is at present undertaking a review which is addressing itself to the indexation guidelines including the frequency of adjustments. 
Superannuation Scheme 
The government's intention to maintain CPI annual indexation has already been announced and there is no intention of reviewing that decision. 
and (c) We will be prepared to discuss, and consider carefuly, any reasonable proposal for changes in public service superannuation. 
Occupational Health Service 
We have been carefully considering the report of the working party which met in 1975. We will convene an early meeting of the Peak Councils and relevant Commonwealth Departments to consider further action which should be taken. 
Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act 
I cannot agree that this legislation discriminates against Commonwealth employees and for an explanation of the government's position J draw your attention to the Second Reading Speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  published in  Hansard  of 1 8 August 1977. 
Uniform Hours of Work 
The Liberal National Country Party government will continue to encourage consultation between management and unions on all matters  affecting  Commonwealth employees. These consultations can encompass hours of duty as well as other conditions of employment. 
Occupational Safety and Health 
The Liberal National Country Party government supports the implementation of principles and practices to promote occupational safety. It is our wish to continue on a joint consultative basis with the union movement. After the election we propose to take up this question as a matter of priority. 
Flextime 
I believe that 'flextime' has been a successful innovation and we are agreeable to its extension to new areas of government employment where that is practicable and appropriate. 
Annual Leave Loading 
Commonwealth public servants already enjoy, in respect of leave loadings, more generous provisions than the bulk of the community. Further benefits, especially in the current economic climate, would therefore be difficult to justify. 
Employment Levels and Job Security 
It has been our express policy to avoid retrenchments and this will continue. 
and (c) Overall staffing levels will be determined in the light of need. Although there may be both increases and decreases in particular areas of administration as work loads vary, the initial process of streamlining has now been substantially completed and in general there will be stability in the service. 
Long Service Leave 
Existing provisions for long service leave have been decided in the light of existing conditions but my government would be prepared to consider any new submission. 
Maternity and Paternity Leave 
If examination of the operations of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act show that amendments are desirable, they will be made whether these results in increases or reductions in the level of benefits. 
Consideration will be given to extending coverage where this can be seen to be desirable and we would welcome any submissions on the matter. 
Consultative Arrangements 
I would be happy for Ministers in my government to have consultations with representatives of CAGEO although these consultations should not be used to circumvent the recognised process for consultation between the Union Movement and the Commonwealth Service which have been established over the years. 
I am pleased to have been given the opportunity to comment on the matters you have raised in your letter. I think it is most important that there be communication between the government and the Union Movement so that both are able to carry out their functions effectively. 1 look forward to a further period of co-operation for the good of the Service and the people of Australia. 
Yours sincerely. Malcolm Fraser 

 Mr B. Gradwell, Federal Secretary, 
Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. 4th Floor, 254 La Trobe Street, Melbourne, 3000 
I would also like the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  in replying to this debate, to tell the Senate whether the statement of policy included in the letter which I have just had incorporated in  Hansard  is still operative. There seems to be no doubt at this stage that hundreds of Medibank staff will lose their jobs. The Government has said that it will redeploy the surplus staff. But where will they go? The staff ceilings imposed by the Government in all areas of public employment will not allow for many of these people to be employed. It is a fact that most of these 'surplus' people, as they are denned by the Government, will be out of work, but they will not know their fate until January of next year. I ask: Why are these people to lose their jobs? They have proved themselves highly competent. They are perfectly well qualified to process the Commonwealth's universal benefit. It appears that the Government is so violently opposed to community-owned enterprises, so doctrinaire in its determination to smash Medibank, that it would rather throw hundreds of its employees out of work and pay exorbitant amounts to the private health funds than utilise the talents available within its own Health Insurance Commission. 
There are many members of the Medibank staff who left long-standing employment with private health funds when they were invited to join the Medibank staff. They were told then by their employers that they would not be able to return to jobs in private health funds. Yet the 
Government now has the temerity to tell us that it has requested the private funds to employ the surplus Medibank staff. Many Medibank officers do not have the protection which other public servants have under the Officers Rights Declaration Act. They have no chance of beingredeployed. Even if they were to sit for the basegrade entrance examination for the Public Service they would find, as so many Canberra school leavers are finding, that there are no places for them. 
This legislation is also inimical to the interests of the people who join the staff of Medibank after 1 November, which is when this Bill takes effect. Existing staff are, and will continue to be, entitled to maternity leave as it applies to all women employed in the Commonwealth Public Service, but staff joining after 1 November will not have that entitlement. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  explained this extraordinary decision by saying: 
I have to advise that such a subsidy would be contrary to the intent of the Government which has to operate, in its own right, in a competitive market environment with other registered health insurance funds. 
Typically, this Government is prepared to sacrifice the welfare and conditions of employees on the altar of its doctrinaire obsession with competition'. This Government can see no obligation to protect the interests of working Australians. At a time when it should be working to extend entitlements like maternity leave to the entire Australian work force, it is degrading the working conditions of its own employees. I call upon the Government to reconsider this aspect of the legislation. It is mean, totally unjust and directly conflicts with the Government's frequent protestations that it supports equal employment opportunities for women. I urge the Minister to consider the grave industrial problems which could be caused by the Government's decision to discriminate against new members. 
The possibility of widespread unemployment amongst the people who are currently employed by Medibank and the lowering of conditions in regard to maternity leave for people who join the Health Commission after 1 November are the main issues I wished to raise at this stage of the debate. Apart from that I reiterate the arguments against the other measures in the package of legislation before us and support the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Grimes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 9 June 1978: 
Was the Australian Film Commission project  The Unknown Industrial Prisoner,  submitted for approval to the former Minister,  Mr A.  A. Staley. 
Did Mr Staley approve the project. 
Will the Minister,  Mr Ellicott,  explain the difference between his assessment of the project and  Mr Staley  's assessment of it. 
What constitutes evidence of Ministerial approval for a Film Australia project under the terms of the Australian Film Commission Act 1975. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I would just like to point out that the report is very important. It documents many of the problems which the Australian Broadcasting Commission has been experiencing. I do not wish to go over the points that I made yesterday in debate, but it would seem to be of great importance that the Senate inform itself of the situation as revealed in the report, particularly as it appears that yet again today the national broadcasting system is to be disrupted by industrial action. If honourable senators wish to understand the basis of that industrial action, I recommend that they address themselves to the information in the report. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I would point out to the Senate that the tabling of the annual report of the Australian Telecommunications Commission presents one of only two opportunities for Telecom to be made accountable to Parliament. Such opportunity is of tremendous importance because Telecom is not otherwise accountable to the Australian public. Telecom is Australia's largest enterprise. Its assets are valued at $6, 500m. Its annual earnings are in excess of $1, 850m. It is the ultimate hybrid of a mixed economy- institutionally overefficient without any of the traditional checks upon its activities. 
Telecom does not, as does a private company, pay dividends. Therefore the whole of its vast surplus is available for re-investment in new technology. Perhaps Telecom should pay dividends. However, those dividends should be in the form of lower charges and better service to ordinary telephone users and especially to telephone subscribers in remote areas. Telecom has just announced a record profit of $ 1 85m and that understates massively the real surplus that has been earned. It does not reveal the $366m set aside for depreciation of equipment or the $3 17m that has been paid in interest. Telecom's true surplus is, then, $868m. What happens to the $366m that has been set aside for depreciation, and the $3 17m paid in interest? It is paid out, it would appear, to frame Telecom's obsession with new technology- an obsession which does not pay heed to the need of the average telephone user. 
This investment in new technology, the ARI 1 and AXE programs, is solely to service the needs of large corporations. Millions of dollars worth of exchange equipment, much of it less than 20 years old, is being written off even though it has a working life of 40 years. That equipment could be modified to provide all foreseeable services at a far lower cost than involved in the ARI 1 program. The only service that could not be provided is automatic accounting of subscriber dialled international calls. Many millions of dollars are to be spent on a facility that few Australians need or want. The public, it appears, will subsidise the needs of the business community. 
Touchfones have been introduced. I suggest that they are no more than gimmickry, and the touch is on the subscriber's pocket. Telecom is not behaving with the social responsibility that one would expect of a government authority. Over the next year 38 country exchanges will be automated. Telephonists will lose jobs. This will involve the loss of a social service to rural communities and the loss of many thousands of dollars in wages in already depressed areas. Also, Telecom is expending energy and large sums of money in providing private networks for the BHP, Esso, Ansett and TAA companies rather than further extending its rural services. The report and the related Telecom business outlook for 1978-79 are damning statements of the direction public enterprise has taken under the Fraser Government. Again I suggest that honourable senators address themselves to the content of this report. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western AustraliaMinister for Administrative Services)- by leave- I think it would be useful if the Senate debated the matters which have been put forward by  Senator Ryan.  I pick on but one example, that of the touchfone. The argument which was raised is an example of the rather exaggerated view that has been put forward by  Senator Ryan.  The touchfone is offered by Telecom as a subscriber option. It does not cost anything to subscribers who do not have touchfones. It costs the subscriber who wishes to have it an additional fee. To put that forward as one example of Telecom acting against the interests of individual subscribers in favour of business is illustrative of the invalidity of many of the comments made by the honourable senator. I look forward to a debate on the subject. I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is it a fact that the translation sub-section of the citizenship branch of the Department of Immigraton and Ethnic Affairs has been directed to translate the Prime Minister's weekly electorate talk for release to ethnic affairs groups? Was the directive accompanied by an instruction that the task is to be given top priority for the next few weeks? Will the Minister explain how such a directive conforms with the policy of the translation subsection which is that it cannot accept documents whose purpose is purely to convey a partisan point of view? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister cable the Australian Embassy in Bonn before his recent visit to West Germany, requesting that the following arrangements be made for a week-end excursion: (a) bookings on the hydrofoil down the Rhine; ( b ) the services of two chauffeur-driven Mercedes cars for a tour of the wine districts: and (c) accommodation in 'that castle that is on the Lufthansa posters'. 
Did the week-end excursion cost the Australian Government approximately$3000. 
What were the costs, item by item, of the week-end trip, including the cost of hotel accommodation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) What individuals and groups have so far been consulted in connection with the establishment of an ethnic television service. 
What criteria were used for selecting those individuals and groups. 
Has the Minister established any avenues by which ethnic communities are kept informed of the development plans for ethnic television, and through which the ethnic communities can contribute to the planning of programs. 
I welcome the opportunity that is presented to the Senate this evening by the discussion of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79 and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1978-79 to raise a particular question of concern to me and I expect to all honourable senators in reviewing the expenditure of public moneys. The issue of concern about which I would like to make a few remarks this evening is the accountability of certain statutory authorities to the Parliament. It is a matter of great concern that authorities such as the Australian Telecommunications Commission, the Australian Postal Commission and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, commissions which now spend annually a sum in excess of $2, 300m, are not accountable in any detail to the Australian public through this Parliament. None of these bodies receives a Budget allocation in the Appropriation Bills but they represent a very large investment of public moneys. Of even greater concern is the unpreparedness of bodies such as the Australia Council and the National Gallery to give full account to the Senate estimates committees of their expenditure of public moneys. Unlike the statutory commissions to which I referred, the National Gallery and the Australia Council derive their income mainly from the public purse and thus of course they receive a Budget allocation in the Appropriation Bills. 
Yet during the course of the Senate estimates committees' hearings officers from these two bodies revealed an inability, if not an unwillingness, to explain to the committees for what purpose their appropriations were to be used. Honourable senators will be aware that until this year the same criticisms had been levelled at the Australian Broadcasting Commission, either that one line appropriations without explanation were tendered or that officers of insufficient authority or lacking detailed knowledge were present at Estimates hearings. I am pleased to state that the standard of written and oral presentation by the Australian Broadcasting Commission officers to Estimates Committee F was on this occasion all that could be asked by honourable senators. I might remark that it is a sign of the impact which the Government's 23 per cent cutback in funding for the ABC since 1975 has had that the Commission must now look to every cent that is available to it. The failure of statutory authorities to fully understand their accountability to parliament has been a recurrent problem since the estimates committees were established in 1970. On two occasions since that time the Senate has affirmed the principle that there is no area of expenditure of public funds by statutory authorities which cannot be examined by Parliament or its committees. 
The problem with Telecom, Australia Post and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission is not an unwillingness on the part of their officers to answer questions; indeed officers from these commissions were very helpful and co-operative when questions were put to them. The problem is that these bodies receive no direct appropriation from Consolidated Revenue and therefore there is no satisfactory mechanism by which honourable senators may question officers during the course of Estimates committee proceedings. I feel that such a situation is not acceptable because the Estimates committees represent the only real opportunity to consider and examine the activities of these bodies. 
It might be argued that the tabling of the annual reports of those bodies also presents an opportunity for the discussion and consideration of their activities. To some extent this is the case. However, it is also the case that the opportunities presented by the tabling of annual reports are limited. They are not as great as the opportunities presented at Estimates committee meetings in respect of the consideration of the expenditure of government departments and bodies such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission. So we have a situation in which institutions such as Telecom are able to proceed along selfdetermined paths of growth and development without any comprehensive public review or discussion. 
I am suggesting that statutory authorities and commissions must be publicly accountable. This is especially true of Telecom, Australia Post and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, whose projected expenditures represent a sum equal to that allocated for defence this financial year. Expenditure on defence is rigorously analysed. In fact, a further analysis of it was just made by  Senator Hamer.  The defence allocation is analysed and examined in great detail by the Estimates committees. Each item of expenditure on new equipment is reviewed and debated. Debate over large items of capital expenditure, such as the Mirage replacement program, may take several years. I believe that that is how it should be when many millions of dollars of the taxpayers money are involved. Such diligence is also to be expected in a department of state under ministerial control and accountable through the Minister to this Parliament. 
The same situation is not the case with regard to expenditure by and capital outlays for Telecom. Telecom is Australia's largest enterprise. It employs 83,000 people and has assets worth $6,500m and earnings of $ 1,800m a year. It has now embarked upon a capital program that is in many ways equal to that being currently considered by the Department of Defence. The Department of Defence, in deciding upon a replacement for its 100 Mirage fighters, will commit the Australian taxpayer to an investment of between $ 1,700m and $2,000m. That decision has not yet been made even though there has been intense debate about and detailed examination and evaluation of the different aircraft available. The decision will not be made without further exhaustive debate and consideration in this place. 
Telecom Australia has embarked upon a program of computerising its telephone exchanges and switching centres, a program which will cost the Australian public between $ 1,700m and $2,000m over the next decade. That program is commonly known as the ARE 1 1 program. It has already raised severe doubts among Telecom's employees about the technological and social path which Telecom has determined for itself. Although the ARE 1 1 program is comparable in cost to the decision which the Department of Defence must make over a fighter replacement, there has been no debate in the Parliament on the ARE 1 1 program. This chamber has not been afforded the opportunity to review and consider the wisdom of Telecom's investment decision. 
It might be suggested that as a statutory commission Telecom ought not to be subject to continued review by Parliament of its commercial dealings and decisions. I recall that when the independent commissions for the telecommunications and postal services were created during the period of the Whitlam Government there was a desire that the commissions be able to meet their dual obligations of operating as efficient commercial enterprises while still observing and protecting the public interest and, given their expertise and abilities, that they be able to observe those obligations without outside help or independent review of their actions. I am not suggesting that the status of these commissions should be changed so that they would become exactly the same son of bodies as Commonwealth departments. I suggest that what is necessary for public accountability are properly audited detailed accounts for each year and forward estimates embracing annual business outlooks and the longer term corporate plans. 
Yet the performance of an institution of the importance of Telecom cannot be reduced solely to an auditor's report and an annual balance sheet. Telecom 's activities affect the daily lives of all Australians. To many, such as the elderly and the invalid, a telephone is no longer a luxury but a necessity, an essential technological element in our present social fabric. Therefore I believe that investment decisions which affect the pricing and hence the availability of telephone services are matters of policy which this Parliament should review and debate. Because Telecom and Australia Post fund their activities from internally generated revenues or loans raised on their own accounts rather than appropriations from Consolidated Revenue, we should not be denied completely the chance to review their activities. 
Telecom and, to a lesser extent, Australia Post seem clearly committed at this stage to the pursuit of profit with the measurement of their achievement by the balance sheet rather than their overall social as well as economic performance. Communication and information services are now central to the functioning of our society. It must be asked whether public corporations can be trusted to exercise the monopoly with which they are entrusted without public accountability through this Parliament. Telecom's decisionmaking, in spite of the undertakings about open planning given in its report entitled 'Telecom 2000', is not accessible to the majority of Telecom customers- the ordinary telephone user. Without doubt Telecom is accessible to big business, such as the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd, Esso and Ansett, which seek the use of publicity funded services at discounted rates. In essence, the ARE 1 1 program is about the provision of services to business and corporate interests at a cost subsidised by the ordinary telephone user. 
I think the following questions should be asked in this place: Does the ordinary subscriber really want automatic accounting of international subscriber trunk dialling calls? Does the ordinary consumer really want touchphones? Will the ordinary subscriber be pleased when the ARE 1 1 program brings about timed local calls and a two-tier priority service that in many cases they will be unable to afford? I believe that the elected representative;  **f  the Australian people are not at present in . position to influence 
Telecom on these matters. We cannot influence or determine how the $ 1.800m revenue raised this year from the public is to be spent. Telecom has developed a dynamic of its own. It appears now to have an obsession with growth and with new technology which precludes the lowering of tariffs and the provision of a telephone service at a cost which all Australians can afford. 
How are Telecom and other statutory commissions to be made accountable for their expenditure? I would not suggest, as I said before, continued direct ministerial supervision or intervention in the day-to-day management of such authorities, but I would suggest that greater accountability is necessary than that provided by annual reports and certified accounts. It is not accountability merely to submit an audited report each year. To be accountable means to give reasons for decisions and actions taken. An account sheet rarely provides an explanation and it never gives reasons, nor can it be regarded as a record or statement of policy. An audited account is protection against fraud and the criminal misuse of public money. But the usefulness of such an account is limited. To this extent the role of the Estimates committees in regard to public authorities such as Telecom is severely limited. I would suggest that what is necessary is an independent source of information or a fuller arena of debate to ensure that no problems remain uninvestigated and no policy issues remain unexplored or unquestioned. 
The Estimates committees, as they are currently structured, provide the basis for such accountability. Their powers ought to be enhanced and clearly defined. Their inquiries ought to be able to determine such things as social need. Their activities ought to be augmented by adequately trained staff and fully empowered audit of all government activities whether by departments, commissions or other bodies. Such procedures, I suggest, would provide the public accountability which this Parliament lacks in part at this stage. 
I would like to pass to two other statutory bodies which are different from Telecom and the Postal Commission and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission in that they do receive appropriations under the Appropriation Bills. They are the Australian National Gallery and the Australia Council. Both of these bodies have a crucial role in the development and restoration of Australian culture. The Australian Labor Party thoroughly supports the continued adequate funding of both institutions. Speaking on behalf of my Party, the Federal Opposition, I say that in general terms we are satisfied with the overall development of the activities of both the Australia Council and the National Gallery. In respect of the National Gallery, it would appear that when the building which will house the national collection is finally finished, it will be a building from which all Australians will be able to benefit. It will also have a collection which will have international prestige and a role in developing cultural and artistic tastes in Australia and in other countries. We are very happy that the National Gallery is developing such an important international collection. 
However, I must comment in a critical way on the inadequate presentation of information by officers of the National Gallery when they came before Estimates Committee D. Really no detailed information was provided by officers of the National Gallery even though the Gallery receives a very considerable allocation of public money. When officers were questioned as to why there was no detailed information as to their use of this public money, the answers given were not satisfactory. The senators questioning the officers from the Gallery were told that the Gallery needed to get the approval of its council for programs and that there had been some difficulty in getting the council to meet. I suggest that this sort of answer is not a satisfactory answer to be given to senators attempting to ensure accountability for the expenditure of public money. 
In my view, information on staffing and other areas of expenditure such as touring exhibitions, travel and so forth could have been and should have been provided to honourable senators. No information was forthcoming on plans for acquisitions. In answer to a query by my colleague,  Senator Robertson,  about what sort of acquisitions were being planned,  Senator Robertson  was told that he should be content with the annual report, which gave the previous year's expenditure. Of course again that answer was unsatisfactory because the 1977-78 annual report will not be ready until next year, and I remind the Senate that the 1976-77 annual report of the National Gallery was tabled during this year's Budget session. 
It is a very common problem. I am pleased to hear  Senator Missen  interject at this point that it is a common problem. The late presentation of annual reports reduces their usefulness to honourable senators seeking information and seeking accountability as to the expenditure of public money. 

 - Senator Wheeldon also makes a useful contribution to the debate. I am afraid that even with  Senator Wheeldon  's very helpful contribution, I am still dissatisfied with the situation which prevailed during this year's Senate Estimates committee hearings when no detailed information was prepared for us by National Gallery officers, nor did we have a current annual report which could give us details regarding this year's allocation. So we really did not have answers to the questions that  Senator Robertson  or I were seeking. We had no information really that could be of any use to any of our constituents who might express an interest in what the National Gallery was doing, how it was developing and which area of acquisitions it was developing at this stage. Nor did we have any information on those very reasonable requests that come to us from time to time via our constituents or which we might even wish to pursue out of our own interest. 
The National Gallery, like any other publicly funded body, has an obligation, a very clear obligation, to the public to explain what it is doing and why. For example, we finally discovered, through questioning, that a considerable amount of the Gallery's allocation is spent on travel for its officers. I accept completely that there is a genuine need for officers of the Gallery to travel so that they can keep up to date in their various areas of expertise and so that they can make knowledgeable and sound decisions about acquisitions. I accept that and I am sure that the members of the public would accept it if the information were given. But the National Gallery is no different from any other publicly funded body in that it does not need to give explanations for expenditures such as expenditure on travel by its officers. I think that quite acceptable and sound explanations were there to be given but I was disturbed that the officers were unprepared or unable to give honourable senators these sorts of explanations. 
I would say at this point,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that although the Australian Labor Party has a very strong policy in favour of public funding and public support for the arts, as indeed the present Government has a policy of public support for the arts, it is a sensitive area as far as many Australians are concerned. We do not have a very developed arts education program in this country. Therefore many people are not particularly familiar with the reasons why very large sums of public money have to be spent to acquire certain major works of an. Perhaps people who are trained in these areas and who have a personal interest in these areas do not need explanations, but there are many citizens who would like more information as to why a certain acquisition was made, why it was important to our national collection to have a particular acquisition, why it is that certain aquisitions cost certain amounts and so forth. I do not think that anything is to be gained by maintaining an air of mystery about the business of acquisitions. 
From the response of officers from the National Gallery it did seem that there was something of an air of mystery about this. 1 understand, as one of the senior officers said, that it is not in the interests of the National Gallery to give a detailed account of its intentions with regard to acquisitions. It could disadvantage the purchases of the National Gallery on the world market if every detail of what the Gallery intended to do and how much it could spend on a particular item were to be made publicly available. Certainly I would not wish to see the National Gallery officers suffering such disadvantage. But senators were not seeking information of such detail or information, the exposure of which would have been to the disadvantage of the Gallery. What we were seeking was general information on policy, on the extent of money spent on wages, on any training programs being undertaken, on the proportion of fund spent on touring exhibitions and things of that kind. It was very disappointing for all honourable senators attending that Committee that such information was not available. In conclusion in respect of the National Gallery, I do not feel that the fault is particularly that of the Gallery officers. I feel that there is a need for the Senate, as a body, to clarify its requirements from bodies such as the National Gallery. This is the main purpose of my raising this matter this evening. 
Similarly, in respect of the Australia Council, in the course of questioning officers representing that Council, it was suggested that those officers could not answer questions with regard to the appropriation for the Australian Opera or the Australian Ballet. Again I would like to make quite clear that I think both the Australian Opera and the Australian Ballet are very fine national institutions which do justify the expenditure of a considerable amount of public money. I look forward to their further development so that they can become accessible to all Australians who have an interest in these matters and indeed to overseas people who may have an interest in our national cultural bodies. 
I do not argue with the fact that both these bodies receive considerable amounts of public money, nor do I argue with the policy adopted by both bodies of pursuing the highest standards of artistic excellence. However, I cannot  accept  the position as described by officers of the Australia Council, namely, that no information can be given about policies or the areas of expenditure entered into by the Australian Opera or the Australian Ballet. Both of these bodies have a degree of independence. Certainly they should have independence in the matters of artistic policy, performance, programs and so forth but they are not truly independent of the Parliament. They are funded by the Government almost entirely. Some private assistance is given to both of those bodies, but that assistance is very small. They are funded by the Government. I think it is appropriate that officers from those bodies answer very general questions asked by senators in relation to the use they make of public moneys. 
Again, the activities of bodies such as the Australian Opera and, to a slightly lesser extent, the Australian Ballet, are very public; people take a great interest in them. The use of very popular performers and directors with international reputations draws public comment and arouses public interest. Sometimes the public interest is in the nature of a critical inquiry. Why is it that the Australian Opera spends a certain amount of money on a particular production? I do not think it is improper for such a question to be asked either by a member of the public or certainly by a senator on an Estimates committee. I think that general matters of policy, such as why it is that the Australian Opera has decided to pursue excellence in a certain sphere, ought to be able to be discussed by members of this Parliament through appropriate procedures. I hope that at future meetings of the Estimates committees the Australia Council officers will be able to answer the sorts of questions which honourable senators were anxious to put to them during the hearings of Estimates Committee D. 
I have taken the opportunity tonight to make comments on some of the less satisfactory aspects of the accountability of public bodies to this Parliament. I have instanced the case of those bodies which do not receive direct appropriations but which represent very large public investments. Those bodies are, of course, Telecom, the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and the Postal Commission. I have asked that consideration to be given to establishing machinery whereby these bodies may be answerable in a general sense for the policies under which they operate and the services that they offer to the community. I have also raised problems associated with the Australian National Gallery and the Australia Council. Both of these bodies receive Budget allocations. They are primarily funded out of the public purse. Both of them are national institutions in which people of this country have a great interest. They are bodies which I think should be accessible to all Australians but which are not, at this stage of their development, accessible to all Australians. I am reminded that my colleague in this place,  Senator Wheeldon,  has remarked to me that the Australian Opera does not go to Perth at this stage. Indeed it does not. We have to consider whether a greater responsibility should be placed on bodies which are funded by the Australian taxpayers, such as the Australian Opera, to make themselves available through touring to Australians other than those who live in Sydney or Melbourne. 

 - Senator Wheeldon reminds me that the National Gallery collection has not, so far, toured extensively. I am pleased to note that in the last 18 months two major exhibitions have been mounted out of the National Gallery collection for touring. I think  Senator Wheeldon  is suggesting that they have not got as far as Western Australia. This is not a satisfactory situation. These bodies are important and nobody would argue with their right to public support. If we are to continue to adopt the policy that they should be heavily supported out of the public purse, then I think we should be asking also that they be made available to people in all parts of Australia and perhaps that a greater attempt on the part of those responsible for the programs of those bodies be made to achieve greater accessibility, mainly through touring. I hope that honourable senators who have been listening to my remarks tonight will give some thought to adopting procedures whereby all public bodies, independent statutory authorities though they may be, will be more fully accountable to this Parliament and therefore to the public which pays for their existence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 20 September 1 978: 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the fact that experimental operations involving a new communications technology called Teletext are at present being conducted by several television stations throughout Australia. As the Australian Broadcasting Commission so far has been excluded from the experimental development of Teletext, can the Minister indicate whether the Government has any intention to involve the national broadcasting service in this important new development? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) Is balance coverage  or  news and political affairs by the Australian Broadcasting Commission severely hampered by the lack of a regular television link between Launceston and Hobart. 
Will the Minister examine the possibility of establishing a regular television link between Launceston and Hobart so that ABC coverage of news and political affairs is no longer determined by the proximity of an event or an individual to the ABC studios in Hobart. 
Has the ABC in Tasmania considered filming interviews in Launceston for later transmission in Hobart until a regular link is in operation; if so. what was its conclusion: if not, will the ABC undertake to do so. 
Has the ABC considered filming videotaped interviews in Canberra for relay to Tasmania by broadband or by air for the next night's programs, particularly in view ofthe necessity for two of Tasmania's Federal spokesmen to spend much of their time in Canberra. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 September 1978: 
1 ) Have any approaches been made to the Minister, officers of the Postal and Telecommunications Department, or members or officers of the Broadcasting Tribunal, regarding the allocation of a third commercial television licence in Perth: if so, who initiated such approaches. 
Have any predictions, promises or statements referring to a third television licence for Perth been made by any Minister, Departmental officers, or members or officers of the Broadcasting Tribunal; if so, what are the details. 
Have copies of prospectuses or any other form of invitation to subscribers to invest in a company, the purpose of which is to apply for a third television station in Perth, been made available to the Minister, his Department or members or officers of the Broadcasting Tribunal. 
In the event of any official consideration of the allocation of a third television licence for Perth, will a planning proposal be written by the Department of Post and Telecommunications: if so, to whom will it be circulated for consideration and comment preceding any action. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications agree that as Telecom Australia is now such a profitable enterprise and is making such large profits it ought to be in a position to improve services to consumers? Specifically, will the Minister direct Telecom to undertake an investigation of how much it would cost to provide age pensioners and invalid pensioners with a 50 per cent rebate on rent and telephone call charges? 
I would like to thank the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Carrick,  for permitting this debate to take place. When I moved my motion on 1 1 October it would have been available to the Government to call for a vote on the motion immediately and to dispose of the matter without proper time being allowed for consideration of it.  Senator Carrick  did not do that and I thank him for the opportunity the Senate has had to consider the issue before it. I have also been gratified by a number of the contributions made to the debate in the highly principled, well researched, serious and well argued contributions of Senators Evans, Hamer, Puplick and Baume. I believe at this stage that all the points of substance which I would wish to make have been made in speeches of that kind. However, there are a few points which I think I must make in reply for the sake of the record. First of all I was surprised to hear  Senator Knight  quote a letter from Ivor Vivian, a member of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, claiming that the Ordinance which we are now discussing was endorsed by the Assembly. It was not. I have before me evidence that it was not. It is the  Hansard  record of the Legislative Assembly debate of 30 May 1978, when the  Deputy President  of the Assembly,  Mr Vivian  himself, put the following motion to the Assembly: 
I propose the  question  that the Bill- 
That is, the Ordinance we are discussing- 
. be agreed to in  principle. 
To save the time of the Senate I just report that according to this  Hansard  record that motion was negatived. The Ordinance was not agreed to in principle by the Assembly. It was rejected by the Assembly and I cannot even start to speculate on the motives of Ivor Vivian in suggesting that it was endorsed by the Assembly. 
The other great red herring in the debate has been the issue of private clinics. I think that that has been brought in deliberately by some opponents of my motion to confuse the issue. Nobody has argued for the establishment of private clinics. One senator,  Senator Baume,  has pointed out that he does not have in principle objections to private clinics. But nobody has argued that a private clinic of the type conducted by Population Services International (Australasia) Ltd should be established. The Assembly was opposed to that. The Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  made it clear that he was opposed to that. The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  has made it clear that he is opposed to that. I have made it clear, as have many of my colleagues and contributors to the debate. 
It was claimed that, should my motion be successful, the Minister would have no powers for a period of six months to prevent the opening of a private clinic. Again I think that that argument has been disposed of, particularly by  Senator Evans,  but I would like to remind the Senate at this stage that that is not true. I have always believed, as I said when I first moved this motion, that the ordinance which I would seek to implement the Legislative Assembly's report would be an ordinance different in substance from the Ordinance before us and, therefore, would not involve the six-month waiting period. There is a great weight of legal opinion to support that view. Because of the lateness of the hour I quote only part of a judgment by  Mr Justice  McTiernan, a High Court judge, in a case concerning the meaning of 'in substance'. Justice McTiernan said: 
The expression 'the same in substance' does not fix precisely the limits of the prohibition imposed on the Executive. In my opinion a new regulation would be 'the same in substance ' as a disallowed regulation if, irrespective of form or expression, it were so much like the disallowed regulation in its general legal operation that it could be fairly said to be the same law as the disallowed regulation. 
Clearly, an ordinance which specifically provided for the establishment and operation of a public abortion clinic would not have the same legal operation as an ordinance which prevents such a clinic. However, the Minister has said in a letter to me that he fears that there could be a challenge to the substance argument and, therefore, he feels that he would be without recourse to making a new ordinance in a period of six months. Other mechanisms are available to the Minister.  Senator Rae's  foreshadowed recision motion is a motion which, if passed, would wipe the slate clean with regard to the powers of the Minister to legislate on private abortion clinics.  Senator Rae  is of that belief, and any senator who understands the recision motion must agree that the effect of a recision motion would be the same as if the original ordinance had never existed. Therefore there would be no impediment to  Mr Hunt  gazetting immediately a specific ordinance prohibiting private clinics, if that were his wish- and he has always said that it is his wish to prevent the establishment of private clinics. So why have some people at least been pretending that the Minister would be powerless to prevent the opening of private clinics should my motion be successful? It seems to me that most of those who have been arguing that view are people from the Right to Life Association who claim that they are against private clinics but who also are against public facilities for the performance of abortion and, for that matter, against the provision of health insurance in respect of it. So it seems to me to be a very misleading position for the Right to Life Association to adopt, as it has done in public advertisements, that it is concerned only with stopping private clinics when in other statements and on other occasions it has admitted that it is opposed also to the establishment of a public clinic. 
It is clear that the Minister does have the power to prohibit private clinics while at the same time moving to implement the Legislative Assembly report in full. So. let us not vote with that confusion still with us. It is also clear that the Government does not wish to implement the Legislative Assembly report apart from the one recommendation against private clinics. I have two letters from  Mr Hunt  pointing that out quite clearly. They have been referred to earlier in the debate, so I will not refer to them again. Yesterday in the House of Representatives the Prime Minister made it clear that he does not intend to implement the other recommendations of the Assembly- that is, he does not intend to have established a public clinic. 
So, that brings us back to the real issue we should be considering tonight. Where should a decision of grave social consequence regarding the Australian Capital Territory be made? I say that such a decision should be made in the Legislative Assembly. The Minister,  Mr Hunt,  also said that and he has been quoted extensively on that point in the course of the debate. Yesterday the Prime Minister in a local radio program on radio station 2CA said that he believed that the Australian Capital Territory should have full self-government I concur with that view. But I hope that he does not mean that it should have self-government so long as the elected body does not make any decisions that would embarrass the Federal Government. If he qualifies his commitment to self-government in that way, perhaps he should spell it out. Tonight we have had from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  an account of the history of the ordinance, so I will not go over that ground again. 
The final permanent ordinance that we are considering this evening is unsatisfactory. It is unsatisfactory because it ignores the main part of the Legislative Assembly report. It has been argued by  Senator Tait  in particular that a public clinic could be opened under the present ordinance but I think that anybody who has read the Legislative Assembly report or the letters from  Mr Hunt  or heard what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had to say yesterday would know that this is not the case. The disputed phrase in the ordinance is that an abortion can be performed at a public hospital. In the context of the debate that has taken place, this means the status quo and the status quo involves the permission of 7 doctors before termination can take place. 
I also should point out that although the Prime Minister said yesterday that he approves of abortion under the Menhennitt rule, the Menhennitt rule is not what is operating in Canberra public hospitals at this stage.  Senator Baume  has explained that. The operation of the Menhennitt rule in New South Wales and Victoria requires that one doctor needs to say that, according to his conscience and medical judgment, the abortion is in the interests of the woman's health. In Canberra that is not the situation; that is not the status quo. The status quo is that a woman seeking an abortion first of all has to get two doctors to sign and put in a report to the Termination Committee. The woman herself does not go before the Termination Committee which consists of five other doctors who have to agree that the termination oan take place. That is not the Menhennitt rule as it operates in other States. So, let us be in no doubt about that. 
During the debate it was suggested that all the recommendations about counselling and advice and so on were already being implemented in the Australian Capital Territory. They are not. The Terminations Committee provides no counselling to a woman. She cannot even put her own case. Two doctors must put her case in writing for her. She has no opportunity for counselling one way or the other. So clearly the other recommendations of the Assembly are not being implemented at this stage and will not be implemented if the status quo remains. The position will remain as it is if this ordinance is allowed to pass into law this evening. 
It has also been suggested that the words hospital' and 'clinic' mean the same thing, that permission to have a public hospital abortion is the same thing or somehow encompasses the idea of a clinic abortion. Again, that view can only have been put forward by people who have not read the report and who do not understand the purpose of the clinic. The clinic, as proposed in the report, is different in many ways from the current situation at the hospital. It has specially trained staff. The permission of only one doctor is needed for an abortion. There is counselling for and against the abortion and so forth. Outpatient facilities are proposed. None of these criteria prevails in the current situation at the hospital. It seems to me to be quite misleading to try to interpret the phrase 'at a public hospital' as encompassing the clinic as recommended by the Legislative Assembly. 
Honourable senators may be wondering at this late hour of the evening why we are debating this matter. We are debating it because the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  delegated the decision regarding the abortion clinic properly to the Legislative Assembly and then reneged on its decision. I, as a senator representing the ACT, have exercised my right to move disallowance of the ordinance. There have been many suggestions in the letters and publicity surrounding this issue that I am somehow acting improperly. Every honourable senator and every member of the House of Representatives has the right to move for the disallowance of any ordinance that the honourable senator or the honourable member disagrees with. I am exercising my right because I represent the ACT and because the decisions of the citizens of the ACT as expressed in the report presented to the Legislative Assembly are not contained in this ordinance and, in fact, are obstructed from implementation by this ordinance. 
The report is not my report as some people seem to have imagined. I have had no part in its preparation. I made no submission to the Committee of the Legislative Assembly. It is the report of the locally elected Legislative Assembly of the ACT. But I argue its merits in this case. Of course, I agree with the report that a public facility for early term abortions is needed in the ACT. How could I not agree given that women in other parts of Australia have such a facility available to them? I am reminded of  Senator Baume  's principle about the importance of equal access to medical facilities. Unlike the Right to Life Organisation, I cannot put my head in the sand and pretend that if the facilities are not provided here abortions will not happen. I know that desperate women and girls will travel, for example, to Sydney or to Melbourne for this operation. Where is the moral virtue in defending this situation? 
I also know that some women who need abortions will not be able to afford the fares to travel or that some women, having no one to leave their families with for a couple of days, will be forced to go through with a pregnancy that will damage their health and the welfare of their families. Where is the humanity and moral righteousness in defending such a situation? Everybody here knows that through the ages thousands of women have died as a result of backyard abortions. Thousands of others have had their health, their sanity and their lives ruined because they could get no assistance in their desperate circumstances. Everybody here knows that unwanted children continue to be the victims of child abuse and worse. The Legislative Assembly was aware of all these matters and made a humane, rational and responsible series of recommendations to cope with these tragic problems and to prevent many of the problems arising. Why should the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  or the Senate reject these decisions? What will be gained? Who will benefit? I suggest that nobody will benefit. The problems will be swept under the mat, shipped interstate, but they will not cease to exist. 
If we look at where the opposition to this motion is coming from, it is outside the Parliament, it is not on the whole coming from citizens of the ACT. It is an organised, orchestrated lobby by people who hold a minority view on this grave matter, a view to which they are entitled. But there are people who are unwilling to accept that our society is a pluralistic society, that the contrary view to their view is held just as sincerely and strongly by many Australian citizens. They are determined to make all citizens live according to their minority view, regardless of the cost. I cannot accept that position. It is an abhorrent position to those of us who truly accept the principles of democracy. It is also abhorrent to us who hold strongly to the democratic principles that a Minister of this Parliament should make a promise in this Parliament that the elected representatives ofthe people of the Australian Capital Territory, the Legislative Assembly, could make decisions with regard to the termination of pregnancy and then later repudiate his serious promise. 
The Ordinance before us is a bad ordinance. While it does implement one specific recommendation of the Legislative Assembly's report, it prevents the implementation of most of the others, including the all-important recommendation 5 for the public clinic. I have moved for its disallowance in the sure knowledge that procedures are available through the Senate and to the Minister to continue the prohibition on private clinics while enabling the rest of the report to be implemented. I seek support for my motion on those grounds. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Evans's amendment)  be added. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) How much money has been spent on child care, as distinct from pre-schooling, in each year since 1 974-75. 
What were the amounts spent on full day care in each of those years. 
How many full day care places are funded by the Federal Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refers to a letter that I wrote to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications on 20 October 1978 requesting an extension of time, from three months to 12 months, for public discussion of the report of the task force on the national communications satellite system. I gave many reasons why this extension should be granted, including the importance to the general public, the employment implications and in particular the lack of availability of the report at the time it was tabled. I have had no reply from the Minister to my request for an extension of time. Is the matter still under consideration? When can I expect a reply? 
I present the following petition from 1 , 502 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned Secondary Students of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth that- 
An attack is being made on the public school system of the ACT by the abandonment of the staffing formula in order to implement staff ceilings. This will inevitably lead to deterioration in the standard of education in ACT schools. 
In particular, high schools and colleges will be forced to reduce the number of optional subjects available to students in 1979. These options were available in 1978 when the staffing formula was operating. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the senate in parliament should: Ensure that the staffing formula which operated in 1978 for the staffing of ACT schools be the same formula for the staffing of schools in the ACT in 1 979. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray ' 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to an earlier question I asked him about an appeal lodged by 

 Ms Helene Chung of the Australian Broadcasting Commission on the ground of racial discrimination against her by a senior ABC officer. Has the Minister received a report from the Commission on this appeal? Is the report in the  Age  of last Friday, 10 November, correct?  Mr Derek  White, the senior officer in question, when speaking of  Ms Chung  is reported as follows: 
. . . said that . . . being Chinese appeared to affect some members of the audience, of which she was fully aware, and that such an effect ought to occur more particularly in her case because her style of reporting did not fit the cliche concept of the softly mannered Asian girl. 
Is the Minister satisfied with the decision of the Commission; that is, that  Ms Chung  had no grounds for claiming racial discrimination? Can he give a report to the Senate on this matter? 
I draw the attention to the Senate to a number of points that emerged during the consideration by Estimates Committee F of these estimates. First, there was the matter that was raised and commented upon by the Minister for Administrative Services himself,  Senator Chaney,  with respect to the lack of clarity afforded the Senate in examining the expenditure of statutory bodies which did not receive an appropriation. This came up specifically with regard to Telecom.  Senator Chaney  himself mentioned that there was a problem here. He said that he did not raise the matter to question whether the Senate should or should not be examining such bodies, adding- 1 believe that it should be- but I query whether the Estimates committees or, say, the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations is appropriate in those cases where one is really outside the Appropriation Bills. I flag that and suggest that the Committee might consider it with a view to making some comment in the Senate and the same matter might be raised with other committees. 
I am wondering whether the Minister has a comment to make to the Committee this evening on that matter. On another occasion I have gone into some detail on the Opposition's point of view on this but as yet we are waiting for further comment from the Minister on the most appropriate manner in which this chamber might examine the expenditure of those bodies which are publicly funded - 
I am quoting your own words in Estimates Committee F. I have since, on another occasion in this place, raised in some detail the problems that are associated with expenditure by statutory bodies which do not receive appropriations. I also mentioned those which did, but which had not a very clearly established method of accountability. Therefore, I had hoped that the Minister might have something to say about them, more or less in response to the comments that he made himself during the discussion in Committee F. 
I also draw attention again to what seemed to me to be the inadequate provision for the printing of a very important report. I refer to the report of the task force which is inquiring into the question of a national communications satellite. Again, the discussion in Estimates Committee F revealed that less than a thousand copies of the report had been printed. I consider this to be a quite inadequate number given that the contents of that report are of great significance to the whole of the communications industry in Australia. I realise that subsequently the Minister modified the information that was given. Nonetheless, it was fairly clear that very inadequate provision had been made for the printing of this report. Thus when the situation arose in which the Government invited public comment on the report, many members of the public, indeed trade unions and other official bodies, were unable to get a copy even within the first few weeks of the three month period that was allowed for discussion. I understand that now the Minister has extended the discussion period for another three months. 
That is a reasonably satisfactory response, but I do feel that better provision should be made. 
Passing now to the appropriation for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, I simply repeat something that I and other members of the Opposition have said many times: In view of the numerous statutory obligations that the national broadcasting service has, the appropriations for the ABC are inadequate. The appropriation for this financial year creates yet another 7 per cent cut in real terms, compared with the allocation for the previous year; the staff level is down yet again; Australian content is down yet again- and so on and so forth. 
I point out that, although the Government has set forth as its objective in this particular Budget the introduction of efficiency in all areas of public expenditure, the saving of public moneys and so forth, the effect of the various kinds of cuts that have been inflicted on the ABC has been the reverse of what the Government has said it is seeking. This action has resulted in enormous inefficiency in the expenditure of public moneys. The information that was given by officers of the Commission during the Estimates debate confirmed the view that there are many areas of inefficiency in program making, on the technical side, in the deployment of staff and the use of contract labour. I will not go into them in detail again but it would seem that now we have a situation in which public money allocated to the ABC is actually being wasted because of the imbalances and inefficiencies that have come about. 
There have been specific cutbacks that have been of great concern to various sectors of the community. One that emerged from the discussions in Estimates Committee F was the cutback in the amount previously available for the printing of transcripts of materials of an educational nature, in particular in respect of the  Science Show.  That is a very important program and one that that would have a great deal of usefulness for various educational operations, but because of the cutback in funds such transcripts are just not available. 
Similarly, it was very disappointing to learn that there were no immediate plans for the extension of the FM service, in particular to Western Australia, where there does seem to be a sizable demand for such a service. There has been a reduction in the overseas offices of the Commission which inevitably must result in a reduction in the quality of information coming to the Australian people from the overseas service. The cutbacks in staff have reduced programming in all sorts of areas. Australian content has been mentioned. Rural programming is another area which has suffered severely from the cutbacks. 
Finally, in making general comment on the Estimates, it must be pointed out that the current industrial dispute within the ABC has had a grave effect on the Australian public. Perhaps one of the most serious effects has been that the public has been deprived of the opportunity of listening to parliamentary broadcasts. The dispute, it seems to me, has been caused basically by the inadequate appropriation. My voice is failing me and I will not continue. I believe that the Minister has caught the gist of my remarks. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware of claims in  La Fiamma  of 6 November that migrants are not being advised of their right of appeal to the Federal Ombudsman if an application for citizenship is refused? Can the Minister inform the Senate what steps are taken by the Government to inform migrants of this right of appeal and of other matters related to gaining citizenship? 
I have put forward this matter of public importance on behalf of the Opposition because of the stage of the year in which we find ourselves. The parliamentary session is coming to a close and the situation regarding the employment prospects for Australians is a national scandal. It is a source of great dismay to the Opposition that although we are approaching the Christmas season no positive action has been taken by the Fraser Government to ameliorate the lot of the unemployed. In particular, the Budget session which is now concluding has given no hope to the thousands of Australians of all ages and in all circumstances who find themselves without employment. 
The matter of public importance that I have raised has been worded very carefully. The Opposition wishes to draw attention not only to the general crisis of unemployment faced by Australians but also to the particularly discriminatory acts by the Government towards some sections of the unemployed. Over and above the general negligence and irresponsibility displayed by the Fraser Government and its supporters to the national scandal of unemployment there is the question of discrimination. In using the word 'discrimination' I mean that the Government is acting unfairly and unjustly in respect of a section of the unemployed, particularly the young unemployed. It is a discriminatory situation because some sectors of the unemployed are being denied even the minimal support and assistance the Government is forced to provide generally to the unemployed. There are two particular instances of discrimination by the Fraser Government to the unemployed that I wish to mention during the course of this debate. First of all, there is the refusal of the Fraser Government to pay the unemployment benefit to those persons who will leave school this year and become unemployed. Secondly, there is the Budget decision to deny indexation increases to the unemployment benefit paid to unemployed persons without dependants. That is a particularly discriminatory act. 
When we turn to the situation in which unemployed school leavers find themselves we can see how vast the problem  is  today and how it is about to get a whole lot worse. The survey entitled 'Unemployed Persons- October 1978' conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics shows that there are 96,400 teenagers aged between 15 and 19 years unemployed and that 36,900 of those teenagers are looking for their first jobs. Where are the jobs that this huge number of young persons is seeking? The most recent job vacancy survey carried out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in March of this year showed that there were then only 4,100 jobs available for juniors. It is an appalling situation that for the 96,400 teenagers who are seeking jobs at this stage there are only 4,100 jobs available. The situation has got worse during the three years of the Fraser Government's administration. For example, in March 1974 there were 20,500 unfilled vacancies for juniors but, of course, the unemployment rate was much lower then. The number of jobs available for juniors has been reduced from 20,500 to 4,100 during the Fraser Government's three years in power. 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics also carried out a survey, entitled 'The employment status of teenagers- August 1978 , which showed that the average duration of employment for teenagers who left school in 1977-78 was 20.4 weeks. I repeat: The average duration of unemployment for school leavers last year was 20.4 weeks. So the problem is not a temporary one. It is not one that passes in a few weeks. It is not one that disappears after the Christmas holidays. It is a serious, long-standing problem that these young people will have to face. Next month thousands more teenagers will be leaving school to look for jobs but there are no jobs for them. There are jobs for only a handful of the school leavers who will be coming onto the job market. That is the crux of the situation; that is the factthat for the vast majority of young people about to leave school there simply are no jobs. It is not a question of whether at school they have acquired basic literacy skills. It is not a question of whether they are trying hard enough, are motivated or their parents are giving them enough assistance. 
All of those factors are secondary to the one fact that there are simply no jobs for the majority of young people who are about to leave school and seek them for the first time. I stress that fact because it is often ignored, often swept under the carpet by the Government and its supporters. The dole bludger campaign is not yet dead. I am pleased to say that it is running out of steam, but it is not yet dead. There are still people, who represent the conservative and selfish ideology of this Government, who talk about dole bludgers and about unemployed youth as if they were somehow responsible for their situation, as if it were just a matter of their trying harder at school, writing more applications or going down more often to the Commonwealth Employment Service office. It is not just a matter of motivation on the part of the school leavers. It is a fact, a national scandal, that the jobs simply are not there. They are not there because we have a Government that has been totally incapable of facing up to the problem of there being no jobs; a Government unwilling to do so; a Government that has been totally ineffectual in stimulating the economy so that jobs can be created. That is the nature ofthe problem that faces us today. 
I would like to give the example of the unemployment situation in my own electorate, the Australian Capital Territory. In Canberra we have a clear example of the hopelessness of the situation for young people. At the end of October 2,170 young people were registered as unemployed. There was a total of 35 unfilled vacancies to balance that figure; that is, there were 62 unemployed juniors for every available job in the Capital Territory. During that month of October the CES managed to place a mere 285 young people in work. Only a tenth of the number of young persons who were seeking work were placed in work during that month- and this is the national capital. This is the city which, until the advent of the Fraser Government, was the success story of the growth centres, a place with growth of all kinds, including employment opportunities for young people, indeed for all who were seeking employment in the nation's capital. 
In the last three years the nation's capital has changed from being a growth centre into perhaps one of the most stagnant areas of the economy, certainly the city with one of the most stagnant employment situations. The brunt of the Fraser Government's policy towards the Australian Capital Territory is being borne by the young people. In the Capital Territory the Fraser Government can blame nobody but itself for the unemployment situation. It cannot point to State Governments. It cannot point to situations beyond its control. It is the main employer in the Capital Territory and the main stimulator of employment in the private sector in the Territory. The Fraser Government alone must accept responsibility for the crisis of unemployed youth in the Capital Territory. 
Although I have put forward the example of the Australian Capital Territory, because it illustrates so clearly the ineffectiveness, the failure, of the Fraser Government with respect to employment, it does not represent an isolated case. It simply represents more clearly the failure of the Government, which is being imposed nationally on all Australian citizens. When this year's school leavers come onto the job market they will be competing in an already overcrowded arena but they will have to bear the added burden of being unable, for six weeks, to claim the unemployment benefit. This is discrimination. There is no other word to describe a policy of the Fraser Government which is prepared to offer benefits to one section of the unemployed but to refuse benefits to another section who are equally genuinely unemployed. The Fraser Government has refused to acknowledge its responsibility to provide jobs for these young people. It is harsh and negligent to all unemployed people but it is particularly harsh and discriminatory towards those unemployed who happen to be school leavers. They are unemployed. There is no other way to describe their circumstances but they are denied unemployment benefit. 
It is bad enough for teenagers, for these young people, to feel unwanted and unworthy as they attempt to take their place in the work force, enter adult life and take on the responsibilities of adulthood, without the Government adding to their personal and practical difficulties by denying them formal entry into the work force, that is, denying them the right to become part of the work force and therefore to receive unemployment benefit if they are unable to find jobs. By denying unemployment benefit to school leavers the Government is denying them full membership of our society. 
The circumstances of these young people constitute a national tragedy. Before they have even had time to register with the Commonwealth Employment Service- and that is a miserable enough prospect in itself- these young people will have had their first bitter experience of the Fraser Government's cynical indifference to the unemployed. Can it be assumed, as perhaps some Government supporters would wish to assume, that all school leavers have families to support them; that they somehow have a lesser need for unemployment benefit than other unemployed persons? If that assumption is being made by Government supporters it is false. I ask them to reconsider it. It is simply not the case that all school leavers have comfortable, affluent families to support them through their first few months of unemployment. It is particularly not the case with the younger school leavers, the 15 and 16-year-olds. 
We should ask ourselves why these young people are leaving school anyway. Why are they leaving school with virtually no qualifications to go into a work force which is overcrowded and where such a premium is put on work force qualifications? The simple fact which Government supporters seem to forget is that there are still many poor families in this country and most of those teenagers who are leaving school at 1 5 or 16 years of age without completing the high school are leaving precisely because their parents are poor and cannot afford to keep them at school and college. They are seeking jobs because they cannot afford further education. It is simply not the case that they are light heartedly leaving school to enjoy a holiday at the expense of their parents. I think that the emphasis on educational and employment qualifications is so great these days that any family which can possibly keep young people at school and support them to the end of their schooling and then into post-secondary training or education does so. But the majority of young people who leave school at the age of IS or 16 do so because their families cannot support them. 
Then, of course, they face the discriminatory situation where the Government refuses to accept their unemployment as genuine and refuses to pay them unemployment benefit for six weeks. They must live through the Christmas period with no income at all. They are faced with all the burdens, financial and otherwise, of people entering the work force for the first time. They must travel around seeking employment incurring the costs of travelling to apply for jobs, buying newspapers to look up job advertisements, writing letters, paying postal charges and buying clothes suitable for wearing to job interviews. All these expenses come for them at a time when they have no income. For many poorer families in our community the small payment of $36, which is the payment for the youth unemployed, makes a significant difference to the family income. 
I remind the Senate of the structural nature of unemployment in our community. It is not spread evenly throughout the community. In regional centres, country towns and places where there has been a collapse of manufacturing industry there are whole families who are unemployed. It is often the case that the school leavers who are about to become unemployed persons come from families who have already been the victims of unemployment. So the denial of unemployment benefit to these young people is particularly severe. 
Then there are the school leavers who have to leave their families at this time of the year in order to travel to find work. Again these would be mainly unemployed youth from rural areas or regional centres experiencing particularly massive unemployment. They have to leave home. They cannot stay and be a burden on their families. They have to travel to the cities to look for jobs, but they have no unemployment benefit to assist them in this task. In many cases they have no income at all. Where do they live and how do they eat? We have some of the sorry answers to these questions. We have evidence now of the growing number of teenagers who live on the streets of our cities and subsist on handouts or by petty crime. The lives of those young people are evidence of the Fraser Government's total abrogation of its responsibility. 
I ask the Government what reason it has for penalising school leavers in this way. Why are unemployed persons who happen to be school leavers subjected particularly to this unjust treatment? It would seem that the Government is trying to disguise the fact that thousands more teenagers soon will be looking for work- work that is not there. It appears to be trying to discourage school leavers from registering as unemployed. But no amount of trickery, no amount of playing with the statistics or denying unemployment benefit will change the facts for school leavers. The facts are that there are no jobs for most of them. The facts are that school leavers are bearing the brunt of this Government 's economic failure. 
I mention briefly the further discrimination introduced in the Budget by which the benefit paid to unemployed persons without dependants will not be indexed. Although their expenses in seeking work can be just as high as those of people with dependants and although they may have fewer sources of family support- they may have to pay rent alone instead of sharing, as some people in family situations can do- the benefit paid to them will not be indexed. They will have to survive and try to find employment on the adequate benefit that has prevailed to date, and they will receive no increase. 
In conclusion I draw attention to another particular area of discrimination. By this stage it is no secret that unemployment is hitting our migrant communities harder than it is hitting the Australian born. The most recent figures show that 21 per cent of migrant youths aged 15 to 19 years are unemployed. This figure of 2 1 per cent is more that three times the national average of 6.2 per cent. By comparison 15.5 per cent of Australian born youth is unemployed. Figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that all migrant age groups have a higher rate of unemployment than the locally born. What is the Government's response to this? It would appear that the Government has no adequate response. It is ignoring the facts about unemployment. It is going further than that; it is making the lives of the unemployed even harder by denying indexation to a particular group of unemployed and by denying any unemployment benefit at all to that particular category of unemployed- the school leavers. This is a scandalous situation, and I hope that by raising it today in the Senate the Opposition may draw it to the attention of the Government and perhaps provoke some sort of sympathetic action towards ameliorating the situation. 
The Opposition opposes most of the provisions of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Amendment Bill. The Superannuation Amendment Bill is consequent upon that Bill and the Opposition has no particular opposition to it. The Bill to amend the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973 provides for two major changes, to both of which the Opposition is strongly opposed. First of all, it abolishes paternity leave, that is, the one week's leave that is available for Commonwealth employees who are fathers of new born babies. Secondly, it seriously restricts the availability of maternity leave to female public servants. 
The Bill is not one of major consequence, I suppose, to people outside the Public Service except insofar as it demonstrates the bad faith of this Government. The Government, despite its rhetoric about equality of opportunity, concern for the family and good intentions towards the public sector, demonstrates its bad faith in this Bill. It demonstrates its bad faith to public servants because the Bill represents a serious reduction in the terms and conditions which have been won by Public Service employees. It represents bad faith to women because the effect of the reductions in maternity leave, as I will point out later on, will be to force many women out of the Public Service into unemployment, permanently it would appear at the moment because it is almost impossible to get back into the Public Service once one has retired. 
The Bill also demonstrates bad faith toward families. We have heard so much from the Fraser Government about its concern for families and its concern to support the family unit. Yet the one really progressive measure in terms of industrial conditions that the Government had provided- this measure was introduced by the previous Labor Government- is to be abolished in the legislation before us, and I refer particularly to the abolition of the one week's paternity leave. Although that might appear a very minor provision and, therefore, not such a serious provision to lose, I consider it to be a very serious matter. Although the period involved was only one week it was a very progressive provision. It was perhaps one of the most progressive provisions made in the industrial conditions of Commonwealth employees during the period of the Labor Administration. The provision, as I said, simply allowed any male Commonwealth employee who became the father of a new baby to take a week's leave to assist his wife to look after their other children and to get to know his new baby. It seemed a progressive measure, not an extravagant one and not one which would cause great difficulty for management within the Public Service. This measure, which cost the grand sum of SO. 9m, is now to be abolished. 
The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech gave no good reason for the abolition of the one week's paternity leave. He did not seem to feel that there was an obligation upon him to make out any case for the abolition of this provision. He simply said: 
The Government considers the provision of paternity leave benefits for Commonwealth employees is unnecessary. 
I would like the Minister to expand on the words is unnecessary'. I certainly know from my own experience representing people who are Public Servants that the one week's paternity leave has been quite necessary. I notice that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney),  who is representing the Minister for Education, is exhibiting some amusement at my claim. 
My experience in paternity leave is quite indirect. However, I am familiar with the conditions of many of my male constituents. They are young men with young families who moved to Canberra to work for the Commonwealth Government. These families do not have grandmothers, mothers-in-law, fathersinlaw, aunts, uncles or other helpful people to come and assist them on the occasion of the birth of a new baby. The husband and wife might already have two or three small children. The wife may have had a difficult pregnancy and may not be particularly well on the birth of new baby. I believe that in those situations the one week that the father could take off to assist his family was necessary and I dispute the claim of the Minister for Education. 
In many cases known to me personallyalthough not experienced by me personally,  Senator Chaney-  the one week's paternity leave was necessary. It was necessary to the well being of the family. It was necessary to the peace of mind of the young father. It was necessary to the mother. In my view, therefore, it was necessary to the well being of our community in Canberra. We do not wish our community in Canberra to suffer from all the social, family and personal problems that arise when a young family is without adequate support during difficult periods. I contend that in many cases one week's paternity leave is necessary and the Government has made no case to the contrary. The Minister pointed out that paternity leave had to be abolished because, in his words, it was ahead of community standards. Again I ask: Whose community standards is it ahead of? Certainly it is a standard which we value in our community. We believe that families should have assistance on the occasion of the birth of a child and there are many ways in which such assistance can be provided. It was perhaps traditionally the case- it was certainly the case in my own situation- that another member of the family could assist. A mother, a mother-in-law or someone like that could assist. However, that sort ot assistance is just not available to many Commonwealth employees, I do not think that it is ahead of community standards to say that a family experiencing the birth of a new baby should have some assistance. If it is ahead of community standards then those standards are peculiar to the Fraser Government. They certainly are not standards which the Labor Opposition would support. I believe that they are not standards that are widely accepted in the community. 
The Minister for Education further claimed as some sort of justification that staff who wish to take leave around the time of the birth of a child would have available to them other forms of leave. He instanced access to recreational leave credits, flextime credits or leave without pay. In none of those areas is there a satisfactory substitute for a guaranteed one week's paternity leave. Recreation leave has been established by the trade union movement in this country within and without the Public Service as leave which is necessary for recreation. That recreational leave has been fought for and won because it has been decided by the various industrial courts of this country that workers need recreation on an annual basis. That leave is for recreation. Anybody in the Senate who has been in a home at the time of the birth of a new baby could not possibly claim that a young father who has to cope with two or three other children, a new baby and a wife who may not be 100 per cent fit is taking leave for recreational purposes. That is not recreational leave. If a young father took his recreational leave for this purpose his own health could deteriorate if he did not have proper recreational leave available to him. 
I turn now to flextime credits about which some Government senators seem to have a very peculiar notion. Flextime credits are available only with the consent, approval and co-operation of senior officers. A Commonwealth employee just cannot decide to take flextime at his own discretion. Many constituents have said to me that they would not be able to get either recreational leave or flextime credits at the time their baby is due. I think Ministers should know better at this stage, following their own harsh policies on staff ceilings, reduction and wastage in the Public Service, that it is simply not the case that employees in the Public Service departments or other areas of Commonwealth employment can simply take leave at their own discretion. Such is the burden of work on Commonwealth employees, such are the inefficiencies and difficulties being experienced because of the staff ceilings policy, that many employees cannot take even at their own discretion the leave to which they are entitled. 
Finally, the suggestion is that a young father should take leave without pay. That is all very well for fathers in the middle or upper echelon of the Public Service. Perhaps they are the archetypes that this Government considers when it is speaking of public servants, but I would remind the Minister and honourable senators that there are many persons employed in the Public Service at very low rates of pay. If these people have the responsibility of a young family, mortgage commitments to meet and now greatly increased health insurance payments and everything else, they cannot possibly afford to give up a week without pay. It is simply unfeeling and unthinking to say that when paternity leave goes there are these other forms of leave. 
On behalf of the Opposition and, I believe, all Commonwealth employees and many other people in the community who consider that paternity leave was an important way of assisting young families, I strongly oppose the abolition of paternity leave. I do not expect our opposition this evening to be successful but I put the Minister and the Government on notice that the Labor Opposition will not allow the matter to rest there. We introduced paternity leave because we believed that it was an important assistance to families and we will continue to urge the case for it. 
I pass now to the restrictions on maternity leave available to female public servants on the birth of a child. Several changes are to be made here. One of the worst changes is the introduction of an arbitrary 12-month qualifying period. This demonstrates the bad faith of the Government with respect to equality of opportunity for women in the work force. It is quite unfair to say that a woman who has been working in the Public Service for 12 te months may have equality of opportunity, may retain her job and have maternity leave, but a woman who has been working lite months and may have become pregnant in an unplanned way- as does still happen in this day and age - 

 - Senator Coleman is very familiar with these sorts of situations. Why should a public servant who is working for the Commonwealth in good faith, who becomes pregnant and has 1 Ite months service be denied maternity leave when if she had been one month longer in the Public Service she would be granted it? That is the problem with arbitrary qualifying periods. They create many more anomalies than the minor injustices that they are supposed to resolve. 
If the Government were worried about abuse and about women joining the Public Service simply to get maternity leave and things of that kind it could have introduced a fairer compromise, such as a pro rata qualifying period. I do not think that we would have opposed that idea; that is, one month's service giving an entitlement to one month's paid leave, or however it would work out on a pro rata basis. That would seem to me to be a fairer way of coming to terms with the possible difficulty of people taking maternity leave sooner after their entry to the Public Service than the expiration of the blanket 12-month qualifying period. The Government's proposal is unjust and will create many anomalies. Also, it means that the Government's commitment to equality of opportunity for women is qualified. If the Government really believes that women should not be penalised in their employment for child bearing, why does it propose that there be a 12-month qualifying period? Does equality of opportunity start only 12 months after one joins the Public Service? It would appear that it does. 
Another provision of this legislation removes automatic access to sick leave. I concede that a case is to be made out that if a person, be it a woman on maternity leave or any other employee, is not sick that person ought not to qualify for sick leave. I concede that there is a case in principle to be made. However, in the present circumstances I cannot support the removal of automatic entitlement to sick leave to women who are on maternity leave. The real difficulty for women going on maternity leave but who want and need to return to work within the qualifying period is the lack of proper child care. Certainly, that is the case in the Australian Capital Territory yet the provision of child care here is better, I believe, than in many other parts of Australia where Commonwealth employees work and would wish to return to work. 
If there were a proper and adequate national child care program, so that a mother who was perfectly well could place her child in proper care, care that she would be happy about, and return to work within the qualifying period, I would perhaps be sympathetic to the argument that such a person should not automatically be qualified to receive sick leave. That is not the situation and, as a result of the lack of child care facilities and, now, the necessity for a woman to be really ill before she can use up her sick leave credits as well, we will see women returning to the work force, because they need to hold their jobs, before they are properly fit to do so, or have been able to make really satisfactory arrangements for their small babies. I find that situation very distressing. It is one that a government which is so keen on talking about support for the family unit ought not to be creating. 
There is also in the legislation a reduction of flexibility as to the period of paid leave. At present, leave must be taken six weeks prior to the expected date of birth, and the return to work must take place six weeks after it has occurred. If the child is born late, the mother cannot return to work for six weeks and must forgo income. That reduction in flexibility as to which particular three months paid leave can be taken, is not, I believe necessarily in the interests of mothers and their babies. 
Another provision is that the nine months unpaid leave that the woman who is on maternity leave takes will not count as service for superannuation purposes. Under the Labor Government's legislation the 52-week maternity period did so count, but that provision is to be cut back and it will not count. Thus, the woman's career prospects will, in fact, be damaged by child bearing, which is something that the Government is supposed to wish not to happen. 
One of the minor amendments in the legislation before us is acceptable. It is the one improvement to maternity leave. It is the provision whereby unpaid maternity leave can be broken by periods of service. A woman might return to work but then find that her baby is not doing well, or she is not doing well, and decide to take more of her unpaid leave. That is an improvement and we are pleased to see it in the legislation. 
As I have said, maternity leave is essential to the policy of a government which is committed to equality of opportunity in employment. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in his policy speech last year that the Government was committed to complete equality of opportunity for women. Women make up 36 per cent of the work force. Two-thirds of those women, or one in five workers, are married. I believe that the proposed restriction on maternity leave, and the abolition of paternity leave, will have the effect of forcing some men and women out of the work force, out of permanent employment in the Public Service. If women cannot find satisfactory child care or do not feel that they can return to work in the time now allotted, or if they have joined the Public Service too late to qualify for maternity leave, I think that many of them will have to resign from the Public Service. This is unacceptable, especially at a time when it is so difficult to gain entry to the Public Service and does deny the policy of equality of opportunity of women that was announced by the Prime Minister. 
The United Nations declaration on the elimination of discrimination against women states that maternity leave is essential to protect women from discrimination on the grounds of marriage or pregnancy. Since 1911 the International Labor Organisation has recognised the right of women to maternity leave. Maternity leave provisions that are equal to, or better than, ILO standards exist in most countries, certainly in most Western democracies, with which we like to compare ourselves, but not in Australia. By the end of World War II all European countries, and some South American countries, had introduced basic rights to maternity leave benefits and employment security. Germany first introduced such provisions in 1883. Its current scheme was introduced in 1 927. In Italy they were introduced in 1912, and in Yugoslavia in 1922. Most African countries provide for maternity leave and protection against dismissal for the pregnant woman. Length of paid maternity leave generally- and here I am excluding the Public Service- in various countries is as follows: In Australia, noneexcept in the Public Service, where there is 12 weeks; in France, 14 weeks; in Canada, 15 weeks; in Denmark, 14 weeks; and in West Germany, 1 3 weeks. 
I produce these statistics at this stage of the debate to establish for honourable senators that the maternity leave provision which is being reduced in this legislation is not radical, is not particularly progressive, is not by any means ahead of world standards. When the former Minister for Labour and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, introduced the original legislation he was not trail blazing. He was not setting up especially extravagant conditions of service for female employees in the work force of the Commonwealth. He was simply taking a step that started to bring Australia into line with most advanced countries, indeed with most countries. It is a factor of our isolation in Australia that we tend to think that even the most modest advance in industrial relations or provisions of service is somehow a dreadfully radical measure that will bring about the downfall of the economy. There have been many criticisms of maternity leave, most of which, I contend, are quite ill-founded and reflect the prejudice of the critics rather than the real situation that they are criticising. There has been much talk of abuses and of women never coming back. Surveys show that 50 per cent of women do return to work after maternity leave despite the enormous difficulties of obtaining child care for children under 12 months. 
-The figures have been produced in a report by an Australian Government Joint Council sub-committee entitled 'Survey of women returning to work after maternity leave' to which I shall refer later. The subcommittee consisted of representatives of management and staff associations. 
It was done at the beginning of this year, 1978. The figures which I will cite are from that report.  Senator Walters  asks an interesting question. The Government has failed to come up with sound statistics on the subject of maternity leave. Well over 12 months ago through the device of placing questions on notice I sought to obtain information about who was returning to work, the number of women who were taking maternity leave, how often they were taking it and so forth. In reply I was given extremely unsatisfactory and fragmentary information. 
It seems to me that the Government decided to reduce maternity leave without any proper statistical basis for that decision. I think the talk of abuses has been greatly exaggerated. I would point out that maternity leave is not something that a woman can continue to abuse. It seems to me that what is meant by abuse is that a woman may take leave which is meant to entitle her to return to work and then decides, for whatever reason, good or bad, not to return. In a sense that is a kind of abuse in that she took the leave for a certain purpose but did not carry out that purpose. It can be abused only once because once a woman does not return to work she loses her permanency. She cannot re-enter the Public Service so, to use the term of the critics, she can only once abuse maternity leave. Another example is a woman who takes maternity leave, comes back to the Public Service and takes maternity leave again to have another child. Again, I do not think that there are many cases of women who are actually making a career of producing children so as to qualify for maternity leave year after year. The claim has also been made that women are joining the Public Service when they are already pregnant just to qualify for maternity leave. The survey to which I referred established that in the year 1976-77 only 80 women had been pregnant when they joined the Public Service. 
There were only 80. There have also been many complaints, and in a sense they are genuine complaints, about the personnel and staffing problems which arise when women are on maternity leave because they are tying up jobs and cannot be replaced. I am very sympathetic towards people in management and personnel areas who have to cope with the problem of women who are absent on maternity leave. I am not saying that the problems do not exist. The problems certainly exist but what is the reason for them? The reason is not that women are taking the leave to which they are entitled; the reason is the staff ceilings policy of this Government. If the Government had a more flexible staffing policy with regard to the Public Service those women absent on maternity leave could be replaced just as other employees on sick leave, recreation leave, study leave, long service leave or any other form of leave available to all public servants are replaced or should be replaced temporarily by other officers. It seems to me that women taking maternity leave have become the scapegoats for the situation that has been created by the Government's policy of restrictive and - unrealistically low staff ceilings for the Public Service. 
I refer again to the survey in which  Senator Walters  was interested because I think it contains some facts which tend to demolish the main criticisms of maternity leave. It found, for example, that only 2.7 per cent of women who took maternity leave had less than one year's service. It found that 88.8 per cent had between two and 10 years of service; that 8.3 per cent had 10 or more years of service; that 82.7 per cent of women surveyed had not previously taken maternity leave; that 16 per cent had taken maternity leave once before and that 1.3 percent had taken maternity leave twice before. 
There has been an argument about the cost of maternity and paternity leave and I think that that is the very worst argument that has been put up by critics of the system and by the Government. Last year the cost of paternity leave, that one-week provision for young fathers was $0.9m, a mere drop in the ocean of this Budget appropriation. Maternity leave cost S6.1m last year, making a total provision of some $7m for public servants which would have assisted greatly in gaining equality of opportunity for women public servants and assisted greatly in supporting the families of Commonwealth employees. A mere $7m will be saved in one financial year out of a Budget appropriation which, as I recall, totals some $25 billion. I ask: What sort of priorities does this Fraser Government have that it can be bothered to interfere with and reduce so seriously conditions of service for Commonwealth employees to save such a pittance in terms of the total appropriation? 
I do not totally support maternity leave provisions as they apply in Australia. There are faults in the provision of maternity leave in Australia. Firstly, I must stress that it is grossly unfair that only public servants can get what all working women should have, and that is paid maternity leave. There is a case now being mounted by the Australian Council of Trade Unions to extend maternity leave to the private sector. I note that the Government, which is so fond of talking abouts rights for women and support for families, has not supported the ACTU case. I wonder why. Secondly, there is a serious lack of child care facilities, particularly for very small children, which makes the provision of one year's maternity leave for public servants not a totally satisfactory provision. It is also the case that mothers cannot return to work on a part time basis following maternity leave and retain permanent status. This means, of course, that many women return to full time employment that they cannot really cope with. There are no provisions for easier entry into the work force for women who stay out of the work force until their children are of school age. That is another unsatisfactory aspect of the whole situation. 
I would like to see proposed new section II in clause 10 of this amending legislation which abolishes paternity leave, deleted from the Bill entirely. I would like to see the removal of the amendment to the provision for an arbitrary qualifying period contained in section 7 (b) (4) so that there is a pro rata qualifying period or no qualifying period at all. I would like also to see the deletion of proposed new section 6 (3) (a) in clause 7(b), which standardises the payment of 12 weeks maternity leave, which must be taken in an inflexible way six weeks before the expected birth of a child and six weeks after. I would also like to see the deletion of paragraph (d) of proposed new sub-section (4G), in clause 7, which removes automatic access to sick leave. Where mothers now may take accrued sick leave, following the passage of this legislation this will no longer be available to them. 
Finally I want to point out another serious inadequacy in the maternity leave legislation. The final report of the Joint Council sub-committee on maternity leave was presented to the Joint 
Council in December of last year. It recommended that maternity leave provisions be extended to adopting parents. The Government has refused to do this. Maternity leave has two purposes. First, to ensure the healthy delivery of a baby and to protect the health of the mother; and, secondly, to allow time to establish a parent-child relationship. I would put forward the view -I cannot believe that the Government would argue against it- that adopting parents need that second provision, the time to establish a relationship with a child, just as much as natural parents do. I believe that as adoption is not a particularly common circumstance in Australia, leave for adopting parents would not cost the Government very much. To allow leave only to mothers who bear their own children is discriminatory against adopting parents, and I do not believe that there is any proper case for penalising adopting parents in this way. So, for all those reasons I have enumerated- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) What was the cost of hiring a DC8 aircraft to fly the Prime Minister from London to Paris to Rome, including the cost of an overnight stop-over in Bonn before proceeding to Rome. 
Why was the original plan for the Prime Minister to travel by Qantas from Frankfurt to Singapore rejected. 
What was the cost of: (a) accommodating the Prime Minister's official party at the Rome airport hotel; and (b) installing communications facilities in the hotel during the Prime Minister's five-hour dinner engagement with his sister. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It relates to the proposed ethnic television service that is planned to start in a pilot form in January 1979. Will all programs on ethnic television be made by the Australian Broadcasting Commission or will private production companies be involved? Will there be any commercial advertising on ethnic television during the pilot period? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) When did  Mr D.  Ford become Executive Producer of the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  AM. 
Did  Mr Ford  have any other employment between the time he ceased work as Press Secretary to  Senator the  Honourable  Sir Robert  Cotton, K.C.M.G., Minister for Industry and Commerce in the previous Government, and taking up his position as Executive Producer of  AM. 
How many times since  Mr Ford  became Executive Producer of  AM has  that program featured interviews with: (a) the Premier of Queensland, the Honourable J. BjelkePetersen and (b) the Leader of the Opposition in Queensland,  Mr T.  J. Burns. 
What material, in respect of the interviews with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was used as 'balancing material'. 
5 ) What has been the representation of all major political parties on the Australian Broadcasting Commission current affairs programs  AM, PM  and  This Day Tonight  since July 1977. 
I thank my colleague,  Senator Button,  for introducing the Opposition's point of view on this matter. As  Senator Button  has said, the Opposition does not oppose the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill. In fact, most of its provisions are most welcome. However, I would like to make some points in relation to the Bill on behalf of the Opposition. The Bill amends the procedures for lodging either applications for, or renewals of, licences for radio and television stations. It completes the transfer of responsibility for licensing matters begun in the 1976 amendments by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
However, it is worth noting that the amendments to the Act before us arise out of administrative difficulties experienced by the Broadcasting Tribunal, firstly, at the public radio licence applications in April and June of this year and, secondly, the television licence renewal hearings in Adelaide in October and November. The amendments give the Tribunal discretionary powers in waiving the strict time limit for receipt of applications for new licences or lodgment of licence renewals. They also allow for extension of time for receipt of submissions, evidence or replies in licence hearings or renewals. 
The legislation contains an aspect of retrospectivity which is necessary to cover the irregularities in the applications for public radio licences and problems in the lodgment of renewal of applications for the Adelaide television licences. The problems over the public radio licences stemmed, firstly, from the confusion caused when the  Chairman  of the Tribunal,  Mr Gyngell,  gave information which was not correct to people interested in making applications for public radio licences. Problems also arose from the failure of the Broadcasting Tribunal to clear regularly its post office box. Both of these factors caused a great deal of confusion at the time when applications for public radio licences were made. 
Although welcoming the fact that the mistakes are now being remedied, the Opposition must be critical of the fact that the introduction of retrospective legislation was necessary. I think the confusion on the part of the Tribunal itself, the confusion on the part of the  Chairman  and the confusion caused to applicants with regard to licence applications demonstrates that the Government had not been properly prepared for the innovation in public broadcasting. Of course, retrospective legislation is now necessary to validate applications for 26 public broadcasting licences and applications for the renewal of three commercial television licences in Adelaide. 
The public radio licences marked the first round of licence grants by the Tribunal. The television licence renewals were of great importance as they were the first public renewal hearings, and, as such, were a central element in the concept of public accountability of licence holders. It is disturbing that in both of these important undertakings by the Tribunal major irregularities have occurred. These irregularities were, of course, the result of the Government's earlier amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act. In the Government's haste to transfer licensing power to the Tribunal two major points were neglected: firstly, that the Tribunal had sufficient administrative and legal competence to ensure that the provisions of the Act were properly observed; and, secondly, that the major inconsistency between renewal and application procedures was removed. This normally meant that whilst application for new licences were lodged with the Tribunal, renewals were lodged with the Minister. 
The Government's and the Minister's embarrassment was further compounded by the administrative incompetence of the Tribunal which failed to ensure in the public broadcasting applications that its post office box was regularly cleared. This resulted in 12 applications being deemed ineligible because of late receipt. The matter has now been rectified. These amendments give the Tribunal discretionary powers to extend any deadline for submission of applications, renewals, evidence or replies to submissions. The Opposition welcomes that power and expects that it will be exercised in a fair and impartial manner to ensure that hearings are conducted in the most open manner. The Opposition also welcomes the right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal to ensure that such impartiality is observed. We of the Opposition are pleased to see that if an application is not granted an extension of time the applicant may appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. If it is the intention of these amendments to depoliticise further the granting and renewal of licences by removing them from the Minister's jurisdiction, then the Opposition welcomes the amendments. 
I do not wish to delay the Senate unduly because the Opposition is not opposing the Bill. As I said, we of the Opposition welcome several of the provisions in it. However, we hope that retrospective legislation of the kind contained in this amendment will not be necessary in the future and that the Government will, in pursuing innovations in the broadcasting area, ensure that sufficient resources are devoted in the planning stage to avoid the chaos which this legislation is designed to remedy. The Opposition is supportive of the institution of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and the powers that have been given to it. It certainly is supportive of the practice of public hearings for licence renewals and licence applications. However, we would be most disappointed to see the public hearing procedure reduced in effectiveness by either administrative incompetence or insufficient resources. So in the expectation that future activities of the Tribunal will go more smoothly than they have to date, the Opposition is happy to see the passage of these amendments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 May 1 978: 
1 ) Is a public or a private inquiry being held into the release of an extra television channel for ethnic television. 
What steps has the Government taken to invite the views of ethnic broadcasters. 
Will the Government allow all people involved in ethnic broadcasting to give their views, or is it the Goovemment 's intention to seek the views only of the co-ordinators of ethnic radio. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
Has the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal been allocated extra staff in its State and head offices to deal with scheduled hearings for commercial television and radio stations and for public broadcasting licences. 
Has the Tribunal applied to the Government for an increase in its present staff ceiling. If so, what were the respective responses from the Government and the Public Service Board. 
When will the Government make a decision under its statutory powers, concerning the expansion of the Tribunal from four to five members. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) On how many occasions for each month since January 1978 did Federal politicians from: 
the liberal and Country parties: and 
the Australian Labor Party appear on- (i) Australian Broadcasting Commission television news programs shown in Tasmania; (ii) ABC radio news programs shown in Tasmania; (iii) other ABC radio programs broadcast in Tasmania. 
What were the names of the individual Senators or Members of Parliament concerned. 
What is the total time duration of appearances for each month since January 1978 for Federal Liberal and Country Party politicians on all ABC television programs shown in Tasmania. 
What is the total time duration of appearances for each month since January 1978 for Federal ALP politicians on all ABC television programs shown in Tasmania. 
5 ) What is the total time duration of appearance for each month since January 1978 for Liberal and Country Party politicians on all ABC radio programs broadcast in Tasmania. 
What is the total time duration of appearances for each month since January 1978 for all ALP Federal politicians on all ABC radio programs broadcast in Tasmania. 
What is the total time duration of appearances by independent Federal politicians for each month since January 1978 on all ABC radio and television programs broadcast in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 June 1 978: 
How many times have the following Senators appeared on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news and the ABC program  This Day Tonight  in Tasmania since 1 January 1978:  Senator Grimes, Senator Wriedt, Senator O  'Byrne,  Senator Devitt, Senator Rae, Senator Townley, Senator Walters  and  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright. 
What were the dates, duration and subject-matter of each of these appearances. 
How many times have the following Members of the House of Representatives appeared on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news and ABC program  This Day Tonight  in Tasmania since 1 January 1978:  Mr M.  Burr,  Mr B.  Goodluck,  Mr M.  Hodgman,  Mr R.  Groom and  Mr K.  Newman. 
What were the dates, duration and subject matter of each of these appearances. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister include in remarks concerning academic study leave a reference to its costing $40m annually. 
Has the figure quoted by the Prime Minister been challenged as being a gross over-estimate of the cost of study leave. 
3 ) What is the official estimate of the cost of study leave. 
What is the estimated monetary value of the benefits that accrue to Australian academic, professional and intellectual life as a result of academic study leave. 
My question to the Minister for Social Security is one of principle which relates to the recent withdrawal of benefits from some invalid pensioners living in Greece. I ask the Minister: Where an invalid pensioner whose pension was cancelled in Greece has returned to Australia to appeal against that decision and has had the pension restored, will the Department of Social Security reimburse the pensioner for expenses undertaken to return to Australia to prove that the pension was wrongly terminated? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) What information is available to the Government to indicate that the Special Broadcasting Service is the most effective way to meet the demand of ethnic communities for radio and television services. 
Has the Minister considered support and development of Public Ethnic Broadcasters as an alternative to a State regulated and directed service. 
3 ) Is support of Public Ethnic Broadcasters by the Special Broadcasting Service contingent on their acceptance of programming guidelines; if so, what programming guidelines have been set by the Special Broadcasting Service for Public Ethnic Broadcasters. 
Does the Government intend to introduce elections for representatives of each ethnic community on State Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Councils. 
What procedures has the Government adopted for monitoring the response of ethnic communities to programming by the Special Broadcasting Service. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In the light of the statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications on the television program  Nationwide  last night that the Government was strongly convinced that there must be extensive public debate on the communications satellite proposal, will the Government now decide to extend the time for public debate for another 1 2 months beyond March this year and will the Government find funds to assist those community organisations that want to participate in the public debate to do so? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that as a result of the Government's cutbacks in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's funding and staff the Commission is no longer able to offer a most important service to the public, namely, the provision of transcripts of programs? Is the Minister aware that a private company in Melbourne, known as Australian Reference Services, is offering for sale typed transcripts and audio cassettes of ABC programs? Is the Minister aware that this company is offering for sale for $ 1 7 an audio cassette of the comments made by  Mr Staley  on the television program  Nationwide  on Wednesday, 21 February? I ask the Minister: What is the Government's attitude to this use of public material for private profit? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I remind the Minister that in a response to a question on ministerial propriety last Thursday, he said: 

 Mr Garland stood down because there was a question as to whether he had acted improperly. When he had been exonerated he was reappointed. 
I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that  Mr Garland  was prosecuted for attempting to bribe a candidate in a Federal election? Is it also a fact that the magistrate found a prima facie case against  Mr Garland?  According to the standards of the Government is this finding of the magistrate equivalent to being exonerated? 
The Opposition welcomes this amendment to the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Act, which raises the payroll tax exemption from $60,000 to $66,000 annually, as a long overdue relief for small employers in the Australian Capital Territory. Effectively it will mean that employers with a weekly wages bill of less than $1,250 will no longer have to register for payroll tax purposes. Welcome though this relief may be for employers, it is wholly inadequate if it is to help overcome the severe economic recession which the Australian Capital Territory is now experiencing. The problems experienced by the business community in Canberra and by the community generally have been generated by the Fraser Government. The Government's payroll tax concessions cannot repair the damage which its policies have done to the economic and social fabric of the Australian Capital Territory. Those policies, but mainly the Government's massive reductions in public spending, have fallen disproportionately on the Australian Capital Territory which now suffers the highest level of unemployment in Australia. The Australian Capital Territory is in a grave economic recession and we have not yet experienced the trough to that recession. This year can only see continued contraction in employment and in the general level of economic activity in the Australian Capital Territory. Without a large injection of public money the building industry and the Public Service will not be able to absorb the rapidly growing number of unemployed. Unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory now stands at nearly 10 per cent compared with the national average of 6.8 per cent. 
At this point, I wish to place on record some of the facts about the employment situation in the Australian Capital Territory. At the end of January the unemployment rate was 9.6 per cent and there were 8,615 people seeking employment. That number is 400 per cent greater than it was in 1975. With the national average unemployment rate at 6.8 per cent, the rate of unemployment in the national capital is the highest and the fastest growing in the country. There were 978 more people unemployed in the Australian Capital Territory at the end of January that there were at the end of December last year and 37.5 per cent of the 15-19 year old age group were unemployed compared with the national average of 23 per cent. The situation is equally grim in respect of training opportunities for the unemployed. There were only 391 Australian Capital Territory participants in the National Employment and Training scheme and the special assistance program last year. The annual apprentice intake in the Australian Capital Territory has declined from 728 in 1974-75 to 468 in 1977-78. The number of retrenched apprentices rose from four in 1974-75 to 52 in 1977-78. The  Chairman  of the Australian Capital Territory Apprenticeship Board was quoted in the  Canberra Times  on 25 February this year as saying that there are now four times as many inquiries from young people wanting to take up apprenticeships as there are apprenticeships likely to be available. He said that some trades would not be taking any apprentices this year. 
This is the situation that has come about after three years of Fraser administration of the national capital. Of course, the effects of unemployment are felt much wider than just by those people who are out of work. Unemployment has a multiplier effect which is felt throughout the economy as retailers and small businesses are denied the disposable income upon which they had confidently built their businesses. Amongst the 15-19 year old age group in the Australian Capital Territory 37.5 per cent are unemployed. This is a group which traditionally has a large disposable income but of course, it is now being kept below the poverty line. The loss of effective demand from such groups has brought small businesses and retailing in Canberra to crisis point. In the absence of heavy industry in the Australian Capital Territory, small business is the central element in the private sector. The alarm of businessmen has been echoed by the member for Canberra,  Mr Haslem,  who I see is attending on our debate this evening, and most appropriately too.  Mr Haslem  has been reported as saying publicly that Fraser Government policy was having such a disastrous effect on Canberra that he was in danger of losing his seat. I agree with his judgment. As  Mr Haslem  is a businessman of some note, one must accept the authority with which he speaks. 
In the retail area Canberra is faced with a drastic oversupply of retail space. This again is the result of Fraser Government policy. Planning for retail space which took place a few years ago was made on the understanding that Canberra would continue to be Australia's leading growth centre. Instead, growth has practically stopped and we are faced with a drastic and very uneconomic oversupply of retail space which threatens the viability of small shopkeepers and traders. The supply of retail trading space not only exceeds demand now but also will continue to exceed demand. Figures published in the  Canberra Times  on 26 February this year show that in 1985 there will be an oversupply of retail space of up to 15 per cent. Therefore, in the retail sector we can expect continued recession with, as always happens in these circumstances, the larger enterprises undercutting the small businessman as they take advantage of their economies of scale. This is happening in the major shopping centres all over the Australian Capital Territory. I doubt very much whether the small relief afforded by these payroll tax concessions can restore the competitive position of small business in the face of fierce competition and the oversupply of retail space. 
The  President  of the Canberra Chamber of Commerce,  Mr Warren  Porter, admitted on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Nationwide  last Monday night that there was not much that small businessmen could do to help themselves in these circumstances. Small businessmen recognise, and have done so publicly, that this is a Government-created problem and that only the Government can solve it. However, the Government is totally unwilling to take the necessary steps to solve the problem. The oversupply of retail space also bears upon the construction industry which, without the injection of public funds, can only contract further. There is and will be no demand for retail space construction within the next five years; nor is there any continued demand for one of the central strengths of the Canberra construction industry, or what used to be the central strength of the construction industry- the house building sector. Figures for homes under construction are at an all time low. To give honourable senators some idea of how the situation has deteriorated in the last three years, I will quote home completion figures for the last three financial years. In 1975- 76, 5,068 homes were completed; in 1976- 77 only 3,486 homes were completed; and in 1977-78 the number decreased to 3,253 homes. For the full 1978 calendar year only 2,553 houses were completed. 
The home building sector has traditionally employed small firms and skilled tradesmen but the industry has been squeezed so hard that it is now only a skeleton of what it was during the Labor Government's administration. In 1976, 38 per cent of Canberra people bought established dwellings, 44 per cent bought newly erected dwellings, and 18 per cent bought contract-built homes. In 1978 established houses represented 55 per cent of total sales and newly erected dwellings only 34 per cent. Eleven per cent of buildings were built under contract. In an interview with the  Canberra Times  on 26 February,  Mr Barry  Barnett of the Construction Suppliers Association stated: 
Canberra stands to lose its construction expertise- the whole lot is at risk. All the little places are closing down- the building suppliers, the window companies, the machine shops, the little joineries. 
As an elected representative of this Territory, I affirm and reinforce what  Mr Barnett  said. The long term effects must also be considered as skilled tradesmen and workers leave the Canberra area. Where is the Government's answer to this disastrous situation in the construction industry? Instead of doing something positive about it, the Government has responded to this crisis situation with a continued reduction in the budget available to the National Capital Development Commission for capital works. In 1967-68, over 10 years ago, $1 19.5 m was expended on capital works; in this financial year we are spending even less than was spent over 10 years agomerely $106,973,000. We must now wait five years before a start can be made on that $ 150m project for the new Parliament House. I doubt whether the Australian Capital Territory will still have the construction infrastructure to carry through that major project. It is quite clear that small firms engaged in the construction industry in the Australian Capital Territory cannot weather Fraser 's recession. They are either pulling out or going under. 
Of course, following upon this total disruption of the local economy we have numerous social problems in the Territory. Any statistics one cares to look at which measure the extent of social problems in the community show an increase. I refer to statistics such as those measuring juvenile crime, family break-up, drug addiction and drug related offences. All of them have soared since the Fraser Administration commenced its anti-Canberra policies in 1976. Voluntary organisations in the Territory- for example the Women's Refuge, the Smith Family and the St Vincent de Paul Society- are strained well beyond their resources in trying to cope and give some assistance with the social problems which have followed upon the Fraser Government's economic strategy for the national capital. On the other hand, Government agencies which ought to be offering support in these circumstances, such as the Health Commission or the welfare branch of the Department of the Capital Territory, are unable to give adequate service to the public because of the Fraser Government's policies of staff ceilings. For example there is still no proper provision for corrective services in the Australian Capital Territory. Where we have the unfortunate anti-social occurrences of juvenile crime or crime of any other kind, young persons committed for such offences are still sent to New South Wales institutions to serve their sentences thus adding to the strain and social disruption consequent upon the Fraser Government's economic policies. 
I do not want to delay the Senate on what is a minor Bill- the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill. As I have said, the Opposition does not oppose the amendment. In fact, we welcome it because it will give some tiny measure of relief to small business operating in this Territory. However, the measure provides for too little, too late. I take the opportunity this evening to place on record the result of three years of Fraser administration in the national capital. Three years of Fraser administration have seen the destruction of Canberra as Australia's leading growth centre. Three years have seen the total disruption of Canberra as a harmonious and productive community. Three years have seen Canberra change from a place where there were job and training opportunities for all school leavers and for all other people who were willing and able to join the labour force to the city with the highest unemployment rate in the whole of Australia. The building industry has been almost destroyed. Retailing business has been almost destroyed. Private enterprise of all kinds has suffered disastrously under what is supposed to be a government committed to private enterprise. Of course, all these things have happened directly as a result of Fraser policies. 
If one wants to measure the success or failure of the Fraser Government's economic strategy one needs to look no further than the Austraiian Capital Territory where there is no state government and no municipal councils to blame. There is only one decision-making body in the Territory and that is the Fraser Government. We can look around and see very directly and very clearly what an abject failure the Fraser Government's economic strategy has been. We can see here without any confusion, interruption or obstruction that the Fraser Government's economic strategy of reducing public expenditure has meant not only disaster for the public sector, not only chaos in the Public Service, not only a rundown of services to the community for which the community pays, but also, ironically enough, as I have documented tonight, a total disruption in the private sector. Never has business had it so bad as in the three years of the Fraser regime. I urge honourable senators on both sides of this House, but more particularly the Government senators- I see my colleague  Senator Knight  is here tonight- to put to the decision-makers in the Fraser Government the real state of affairs in the Australian Capital Teritory, to reverse the scandal which is the result of three years of Fraser adminstration and to point out to Fraser and to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  that the economic strategy of this Government has failed nowhere more lamentably than in the nation 's capital. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to an item in yesterday 's  Age  in which it is stated: 
The treatment of a story on the Beggs family and the Rural Finance Commission by the ABC radio program  AM  may be investigated by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley. 
This follows complaints from the Minister for State Development,  Mr Crazier,  who claimed the item was politically motivated and transparently biased journalism. 
The item goes on to quote  Mr Crazier  as having said: 

 Mr Staley assured me he intended to discuss the matter with the  chairman  of the ABC,  Mr Norgard. 
I ask the Minister whether it is a fact that  Mr Staley  is going to raise this matter with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. If it is a fact, and given the Minister's repeated assurances that the ABC is independent and free from political censorship, on what basis will the matter be discussed and for what purpose? 
As my colleague  Senator Button  has made clear in his very concise remarks, the Opposition supports this Bill which will make it possible for the funds raised through the sale of Life. Be in it' products to be paid into the National Fitness Trust Fund. The Commonwealth will contribute $600,000 a year to the program until 1980. Although this is a useful advertising campaign, the Government should recognise that its responsibility to the fitness of the community does not end here. Last year's health bill, as  Senator Baume  will know, was $9,000m. A substantial proportion of the illness which was in the community results from a poor standard of physical fitness. The standard of the physical fitness is a legitimate concern of government. 
When the Australian Labor Party came to power in 1972, virtually nothing had been spent on sport by the previous Federal Government. The Labor Government began a program of spending to encourage wide participation in sport. Within two years the annual budget had reached $llm. Since the Fraser Government came to power, Commonwealth funding of sport has almost completely disappeared. In 1976-77 only $9.7m was spent on sport. In 1977-78 only $6. 7m was allocated. Of that amount, $3. 7m went in grants to local and State governments and to sports organisations for commitments already made by the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. The last Budget allocated $7.4m for youth, sport and recreation. Of that, only $1.3m will go to national sporting organisations. 
The result of this shortsighted and miserly approach is that money is not going into the promotion of participant sport. Facilities are not being built. People are not being given the chance to take part in sporting activities like swimming, tennis, basketball, football, cricket and so on. Instead, spectator sports continue to flourish. Promoters of spectator sports can claim tax deductions for advertising cigarettes and alcohol as they promote their products through spectator sports. While the Government cuts back on the areas of expenditure which could promote physical fitness, it ignores, or refuses to deal with, health hazards such as smoking, analgesics and alcohol. 
Let us take the analgesics problem. Most compound analgesics are habituating. Women use analgesics daily twice as often as men. The number of women with kidney disease is five to six times more than the number of men. Compound analgesics cause 20 per cent of kidney failure. Evidence of the overuse of analgesics has not changed since the report of the Senate Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in 1971. Among patients presenting themselves for dialysis programs, the incidence of analgesic nephropathy has risen from 1 1 per cent in 1969 to 20 per cent in 1975; 94 per cent of analgesic powders are sold at shops other than pharmacies and 54 per cent of tablets are bought at pharmacies. So APC type analgesics are sold virtually everywhere. 
From 1969 to 1972, $2m was spent on analgesic advertising throughout Australia. Compare that figure with the Australian Kidney Foundation's budget which is less than $200,000 a year. Most of that is spent on research, not on much-needed education. Advertising expenditure for compound analgesics in 1974 was highest in New South Wales and Queensland and is proportionately far higher than for single analgesics. 

 - Senator Baume seems to be familiar with the figures I am quoting. As a member of the Senate Committee on Social Welfare he should be familiar. But the point is that the availability of this evidence has resulted in virtually no action on the part of governments. 

 - Senator Baume may be satisfied and be complacent with the reaction of authorities throughout the Commonwealth. 
I expect  Senator Baume  will have an opportunity to participate in this debate. The reason why I bring to the attention of the Senate and the public the evidence with regard to analgesic abuse is that the response of the Federal Government to date has not been adequate. A response to the general health problems of the community as embodied in its national 'Life. Be in it' campaign is not adequate. It is admirable in its own small way, but it is not adequate. 
I proceed to another topic with which  Senator Baume  will be more familiar, the problem of smoking or tobacco addiction. I ask  Senator Baume  to bear with me on what to him may be tedious repetition of well known facts but which are not facts as yet recognised and acted upon by the community. Tobacco smoking is responsible for between 10 per cent and 15 per cent of all deaths annually in Australia. There were 4,000 deaths from lung cancer in 1977. Half of cigarette-related deaths are caused by cardiovascular disease, mainly of the coronory arteries. Cigarette smoking among school children aged between 14 and 16 years increased from 40.9 per cent in 1 973 to 49.2 per cent in 1 977. 
What can a Federal Government do in response to these horrific figures of tabacco addiction amongst our young people? The Norwegian Tobacco Act which was implemented in 1975 provides for a total ban on all tobacco advertising and promotion. Within a year of that ban coming into force in Norway, there were reductions in the consumption of tobacco products. Norway is the only country which has reported a decrease in teenage smoking rates and is the only country to have imposed a total prohibition on tobacco promotion. By contrast, in 1977, $9.3m was spent on media promotion of smoking in Australia. In 1977 tobacco companies spent $ 14m on advertising and promotion. A survey in 1969 showed that 56 per cent of males and 35 per cent of women over the age of 25 years were smoking. Later surveys suggested that approximately 40 per cent of the Australian population smoked cigarettes. While the tobacco industry has spent nearly $ 100m on advertising in the last six years, total Commonwealth expenditure on anti-smoking campaigns over the same period has been nearly $1.5m. Is it any wonder that we are making no headway in coming to terms with this dreadful health problem in our community? 
Between 1972-73 and 1974-75 the Labor Government gave $500,000 a year for smoking education; but in 1975 Commonwealth grants ceased and very little anti-smoking information is now being disseminated. If the Government is really concerned about national fitness, as it purports to be by bringing this Bill before the Senate today, it should impose a total ban on all tobacco advertising and promotion, end all general and specific subsidies to the tobacco industry and make adequate funds available for anti-smoking education programs. I would be very interested to hear the response of  Senator Baume  to those suggestions. 
When we turn to the problem of alcohol abuse in the community we find another very distressing situation. More alcohol than ever is being consumed per head of population, largely because it is relatively cheaper. I must acknowledge at this point the contribution made by my colleague,  Senator Button.  He brought to the attention of the Senate this afternoon the very interesting fact that there has been a significant increase in alcohol consumption in our community since the Fraser Government came to power. I put it to  Senator Webster  that that fact bears thinking about. The Commonwealth Department of Health estimates that alcohol has been a major factor in about 3 per cent of deaths in Australia and in about 30,000 deaths over the last 10 years. Deaths from cirrhosis of the liver rose from 4.8 per 100,000 in 1965 to 8.3 per 100,000 in 1974. At least 10 per cent of the nation's health costs is related to alcohol. Hospital statistics show that 14 per cent of all patients entering mental health institutions are admitted with a diagnosis of alcoholism or alcoholic psychosis. It was estimated that in 1972-73 the total cost to the community in heath costs, losses to industry, road crashes and social welfare payments was over $1,1 77m. It has been estimated also by one survey that mass media advertising of alcohol totals 3 hours 40 minutes a night in the case of most secondary students. 
Alcohol is promoted not only in advertising but also in films and television plays. How can we make any headway on the problem of alcohol abuse in the community when young people are being made the targets of commercial advertising through the mass media in this way? How can the Government expect us to believe that it is serious in its concern about alcohol abuse in the community when it takes no action to prevent this sort of promotion of alcohol to young people? Why will the Government not consider the banning of the advertising of alcohol? It should make its grants to sporting and cultural organisations conditional on their not accepting money from manufacturers and retailers of alcohol. There should be no more tax deductibility for expenses incurred in the promotion of alcoholic beverages. 
I am endorsing the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare. It would seem that the Government of which  Senator Baume  is a supporter has not yet done so, because we have seen no action with respect to the control of the advertising of alcohol on television. 
It certainly is. I suggest also that when considering national fitness the Government should also consider nutrition. The burgeoning fast food industry presents a serious health problem to our community. Additives such as saccharin, preservatives, artificial flavouring and artificial colouring are being used at an alarming rate. In countries such as the United States of America and Great Britain, governments are concerned at the health risks which are presented by the increasing use of chemicals in food. Processed foods are also dangerous to health because they frequently have no food value. As a result, children who eat large quantities of such food run the risk of serious dietary deficiencies. The Government has a responsibility to ensure that purveyors of food see to it that their products satisfy basic nutritional requirements. 
If the Government is serious in claiming to be concerned about the general fitness and health of the community, it must do more than fund an advertising campaign such as the 'Life. Be in it' campaign. It must take positive steps to ensure that everyone has access to community facilities. It should act now to implement the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare in its report on the abuse of alcohol, analgesics and tobacco. The Government should investigate the implications of the growth of the fast food industry for the national fitness of the country. I suggest, in conclusion, that if the Government does not assume its responsibilities in these areas it is wasting its time and the taxpayers' money in funding the 'Life. Be in it 'campaign. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. What arrangements were made under the Telecommunications Art, the Wireless Telegraphy Act and the Overseas Telecommunications Act for use of the Intelsat international satellite, first, for trial for domestic television transmissions by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and Overseas Telecommunications Commission between October 1978 and March 1979; secondly, for transmission of a television signal from Moree, New South Wales, for reception by OTC at the Domsat conference on 21 and 22 February 1979; and, thirdly, the transmission of a domestic television signal on behalf of STW9 Perth on 10 December 1977? 
Is the Attorney-General aware of a loophole in the Australian Capital Territory Police Offences Ordinance of 1930 whereby it is not an offence to pay wages by cheques which are dishonoured? Is he aware of a submission that has been made to the Minister for the Capital Territory by the Australian Capital Territory branch of the Federated Miscellaneous Workers' Union regarding this matter? Can he inform the Senate when action is likely to be taken to close this loophole in the Ordinance? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refers to a recent question I put to the Minister regarding the legislative basis or otherwise for the trial use of the INTELSAT satellite in Australia. I ask again: Is it the case that the use of INTELSAT in Australia, though authorised by the Goverment, has been illegal? Does the Minister agree that three Commonwealth laws- the Overseas Telecommunications Act, the Wireless Telegraphy Act and the Telecommunications Act- have all been contravened by the INTELSAT trials? How does the Government explain this illegality? 
The Senate is resuming debate on the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill and other Bills which will be debated in association with it. I wish to confine my remarks at this stage to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill. This Bill seeks to repeal two earlier Acts of 1956 and 1976, and purports to give effect to the finding of the royal commission headed by  Mr Justice  Hope. To the extent that the legislation does give effect to the findings of the royal commission headed by  Mr Justice  Hope, the Opposition welcomes the introduction of this Bill. We accept that the general aim of the Bill is laudable. However, there are many inadequacies of the Bill as currently drawn. Although we welcome in principle the attempt by the Government to implement the findings of the Hope Commission, we cannot accept the Bill in its present form. 
The Bill manifests the obsession with secrecy which is characteristic of the Fraser Government. Many of the secrecy provisions of the Bill as currently drawn are quite unnecessary. We hope to amend them. At the Committee stage the Opposition will move a series of 1 1 amendments, and at that stage we will explain in detail how the Bill  should be improved. However, I would like to make some general remarks at this stage about the inadequacies of the Bill before us. Under this Bill ASIO receives new powers. For example, it will be enabled to enter arid search premises, place listening devices on premises, open mail, inspect telegrams. Before these powers are exercised, ASIO's Director-General must apply to the Attorney-General for a warrant. However, the Director-General may himself authorise the use of listening devices or the inspection of telegrams for up to 48 hours if he or she considers the situation an emergency situation. Because the term 'emergency' is not denned, the Opposition believes that this aspect of the legislation will be open to abuse. There is, for example, no right of appeal against the issue of a warrant. 
The Opposition has many reservations about the new powers which are given to ASIO under the Bill. The Hope report showed that in fact ASIO had always engaged in such activities as entering and searching and placing listening devices on premises, even though it had been authorised by legislation only to monitor telephones. The Opposition is also aware and very concerned that ASIO has in the past demonstrated a disregard for the civil liberties of Australian citizens. This legislation does nothing to prevent ASIO from carrying on in the same way. This Bill will also override any State legislation which regur lates more closely these methods of surveillance. I would remind honourable senators that the Hope report was very critical of the capacity for sound judgment within ASIO. The report said: 
Intelligence assessment is no simple or routine activity but a highly skilled and subtle task. I must report that I saw little evidence in ASIO that the qualities of mind and expertise needed were recognised or available in any large measure. 
Despite this assessment of the abilities of ASIO, the terms of operation in the Bill before us are dangerously wide and easily open to abuse. I would suggest that they are particularly open to abuse when the officers within ASIO are lacking in that critical ability and capacity for judgment, as the Hope report found. If new powers are to be given it is all the more important that the terms of the operation should be properly defined, and they are not. For example, in clause 5 ( 1 ) (b) of the legislation, subversion as distinct from terrorism or violent acts is denned as: activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the carrying out of activities by or for the Commonwealth for the purposes of security . . . 
Earlier in the Bill 'security' is denned as protection from espionage, sabotage, subversion, active measures of violent intervention or terrorism. The definition of 'subversion' is crucial. For example, in the terms in which 'subversion' is currently defined, the Bill could well be used against people who are opposed to uranium mining. If an anti-uranium rnining group were to obstruct the activities of a mining company which had an agreement with or was in partnership with the Commonwealth Government, those activities would come under the definition of 'subversion'. In clause 5(1) (c) of the Bill we find that subversion can be: activities directed to promoting violence or hostility between different groups of persons in the Australian community so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. 
I suggest that that definition goes well beyond the bounds of what has come to be regarded as subversion. For example, it could include the actions of trade unionists against employers. It could also include, I suggest, the activities of the Queensland Government against the Aboriginal people. Is this the intention of the Bill? If it is not, the term should be more precisely defined. For example, looking again at the words 'promoting violence or hostility between different groups of persons in the Australian community', would such a provision encompass those who oppose government funding of church schools because they might provoke hostility or sectarian divisions within the community? This is one aspect of the Bill which is unacceptable to the Opposition. In the Committee stage of the debate we will be asking for a precise and proper definition of 'subversion' which will cover truly dangerous activities but which will exclude the possibility of this legislation being used against groups of people who are expressing a non-conformist or minority view. 
The Bill introduces a new and quite specific offence and a new penalty, that is, anyone who publishes the identity of an ASIO agent or an informer who is paid by ASIO is liable to a fine of $1,000 or one year's imprisonment. That is another provision which we must question at this stage of the debate. Surely it is in the interests of security that such agents and informers who are so stupid as to make themselves known should be exposed. In prosecuting anyone who publishes the names of bungling ASIO employees, ASIO would be merely confirming that that information was correct. In its present form the provision is ludicrous. A penalty should apply to the identification of an ASIO agent or informer only when such identification would be seriously prejudicial to national security. 
Another extremely dangerous provision of the Bill is that it would give ASIO a right to bypass 
Ministers of the Crown and to advise departments directly on security issues. This is perhaps the most fundamental inadequacy in the Bill before us. It means that ASIO will not be accountable to the government of the day. I suggest that that provision is contrary to the spirit of the Hope report. I suggest also that it is totally repugnant to the meaning of democracy to have powerful agencies investigating and reporting upon private citizens without those agencies being accountable to an elected body. We have had many examples in this country of ASIO- when not subject to scrutiny, to proper accountabilityabusing its powers. 
In the 1960s ASIO regarded as subversion virtually any political activity which took place outside the arena of the main political parties and even some activities which took place within them, as the South Australian Salisbury affair demonstrated. Peace movements, anti- Vietnam groups, trade unionists and student organisations were spied on and harassed. ASIO refused to recognise the democratic right of the individual to participate in political activities and it used its information shamefully. In those years also there was political misuse of the information available to ASIO. I remind honourable senators of an incident which took place in this Parliament in which the ASIO file on the mother of a boy who had refused to become a school cadet was produced in Parliament.  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, who was then the Minister for the Army, used an ASIO file in the Parliament for party political purposes. In order to remind the Senate of this misuse of information gathered by ASIO, I will quote some extracts from the  Hansard  record of incidents which took place in the Parliament in the early hours of 29 September 1966 during the adjournment debate when  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, the then Minister for the Army, published information concerning a cadet who was the son of a  Mrs Ann  Margaret Butler Michaelis of 28 Redan Street, Mossman, New South Wales.  Mr Fraser  went on to describe in detail various political activities of that boy's mother. Later that day,  Mr Whitlam  raised this matter at Question Time and asked the then Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt- 
Does the right honourable gentleman approve of the Minister for the Army using on the adjournment last night security or intelligence files to discredit a IS year of school cadet and to distract attention from his account of cadet training methods? Does he know and agree that dossiers are compiled with similar speed and revealed with similar recklessness concerning the mothers and other relatives of all critics of Government policies and Army indoctrination on Vietnam? 
The then Prime Minister replied in the following terms: 
The Minister for the Army did see me early this morning about this matter, and he brought to my notice the material on which his reply had been based. I say by way of comment that the Minister for the Army has a general responsibility, when the policies of his Department or of the Government come under attack, to defend those policies. When he has reason, on the basis of information coming to him, to question the bona fides of action taken, then that responsibility is enhanced. In this particular case, as I understand the facts, the episode in which this young man was involved was highly publicised and the Minister for the Army therefore had good cause to make a careful examination of the episode itself and the surrounding circumstances. 
Those words of a former Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt, seem to me to be a confirmation of what was done by the then Minister for the Army,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, which was to raise in a public place- namely, the Parliamentinformation which had been collected by ASIO to use in a damaging way against private citizens for party political reasons. Even though that incident occurred many years ago, I raise it tonight to remind honourable senators of the misuse of power and the dangerous erosion of civil liberties which can occur when we have a security system which is not properly accountable and when we have an improper relationship between the political process and the security system. 
I would say that the legislation which we are currently debating contains virtually no safeguards against similar abuses occurring. Of course, the Government will make much play of the establishment of the Security Appeals Tribunal, which will hear appeals from applicants for government jobs, citizenship, defence contracts and passports who have received adverse security assessments from ASIO. ASIO will be required by this legislation to notify each applicant of the adverse assessment and to inform him or her of the grounds on which that assessment was made. But that apparent safeguard is illusory because the Bill also stipulates that no such notification need be made if the AttorneyGeneral decides that such notification would endanger security. If the disclosure of the adverse assessment is perceived as a danger to security ASIO need not advise even of the existence of the assessment. So a person who is denied a job might never know why and might never be in a position to challenge the assessment or decision. In the case of someone who is notified of the assessment and who takes the case to the Security Appeals Tribunal, which is to consist of a judge and two other members, the appellant is not entitled to be present when ASIO presents its case and may not cross-examine ASIO witnesses. 
This would be farcical if it were not so blatant a denial of natural justice. 
The Hope report recommended that ASIO should be properly financially accountable- that its accounts should be audited by the AuditorGeneral. But this legislation does not provide for that. I think that my colleague,  Senator Evans,  spelt out at an earlier stage in the debate the inadequacies of the legislation in that regard. Nor is there any provision for regular checks on ASIO activities to ensure it is complying with its charter. The Opposition believes that there should be regular judicial auditing of ASIO so that it does not infringe civil liberties and operates effectively and efficiently. We also want to see a Bill which guarantees that ASIO is required to keep the responsible Minister fully informed of its activities and which also provides for the Leader of the Opposition to be regularly briefed on all aspects of ASIO operations. 
Finally, there is a need for an effective ASIO and the Opposition supports that view entirely. There is a need for a body which protects the public interest and which works against those who would undermine our democratic system. But of this legislation is enacted without the amendments proposed by the Opposition it will itself undermine the democratic right of every citizen to participate in the political life of Australia. 

That in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: 
The misuse by the Fraser Government of taxpayers' money and public appointments to create a LiberalCountry Party propaganda machine. 
I have moved this motion today because of a feeling of disgust- disgust felt by me and my colleagues in the Federal Opposition and disgust that I believe is shared by an ever increasing majority of the electorate- with the hypocrisy of the Fraser Government. I have used the word hypocrisy, let honourable senators note, because while the Fraser Government preaches wage restraint and belt tightening for ordinary citizens, while it deprives pensioners of the ability to keep up with inflation, while it slashes public expenditure and allows a rundown to occur in the services in such crucial areas as health, Aboriginal affairs and legal aid and while it continues to justify nearly half a million people being unemployed with hidebound ineffectual theories about inflation, it is engaged in an extravagant, selfindulgent irresponsible squandering of the taxpayers ' money on its own image building. It is doing so at a time when about one million Australians have been described by Professor Henderson as living in very serious poverty and at a time when nearly half a million Australians have no job. The Fraser Government's so-called tax reforms have imposed increased taxes on 55 per cent of the income earners. But who are they? Those at the bottom end of the income scale. On what is the taxpayers' money being spent? An increasing amount of it is being spent not on services to the community or legitimate public projects but on propaganda- blatant political propaganda of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. 
This misuse of the taxpayers ' money for political propaganda would be improper at the best of times, but we are not in the best of times. This improper exercise of public expenditure by the 
Fraser Government at the time of a major economic crisis and an unemployment crisis is a scandal. Since the Fraser Government came to power in 1975 we have witnessed an unparalleled abuse of government resources that is designed to boost the image of the Liberal-National Country Party Government and keep it in power. 
I will get on to that. These abuses are becoming increasingly evident as the Government, understandably, becomes more and more unpopular. Whilst the Fraser Governmen 's popularity has plummeted, its expenditure on propaganda has soared. One of the most serious and most obvious abuses of the taxpayers' money is the establishment of what has been called a Government information unit. It is a media unit which has been described by the Government as 'an information co-ordination unit'. What interesting euphemisms the Government uses to disguise this blatant propaganda exercise. This media unit will have a director, the journalist  Mr Vince  Mathews, whose salary will be $30,000. There will be an assistant to him, another journalist, with a salary of $26,000 a year, and a secretarial staff. The Government has appointed four $26,000 a year journalists to act as what it calls 'information watchdogs' in Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. 
The Opposition does not wonder that the Government is so desperate to propagate its own views that it is engaging in this exercise. What I draw to the attention of the Senate today is the impropriety of the Government in appointing these people at huge salaries to do the work that those politicians are so blatantly ineffectual in doing. This Fraser initiative- I am still referring to the information unit or co-ordination unit or whatever it is called; anything but its real name, the propaganda unit- is particularly ironic because of the criticism made by the Liberal Party Opposition in 1975 of the Australian Government Liaison Service. I have heard echoes of this criticism in this chamber today. Indeed,  Senator Chaney  seems to be about to make an echo similar to that made by his colleague who has just left the chamber. 'What about the Australian Government Liaison Service?', they are suggesting. 
Let us look at the Australian Government Liaison Service. It was described by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as a propaganda outfit. On coming to office he disbanded it with a great show of righteousness and propriety. But the Fraser information unit is a far more expensive exercise than the Australian Government Liaison Service ever was. It is set up in a totally different way. It is to work under a committee of Ministers headed by the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Mr Phillip  Lynch. Its only purpose is to develop a favourable image of the Fraser Government. That is a nigh impossible task, I agree; nonetheless, it is one on which the Government sees fit to expend such a huge amount of public money. Not only is the new unit more expensive than the Australian Government Liaison Service but it is also quite clearly a misappropriation of public resources for party political purposes. Because the Australian Government Liaison Service, for which the Labor Party was so severely criticised, was set up within a government department- the Department of the Media- it was subject to audit and to parliamentary scrutiny. There was nothing underhand, nothing secretive, nothing evasive about its operation. 
As my colleague the former Minister for the Media,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, has pointed out, the appropriation for this unit was passed by the Parliament. It was a properly accounted for area of public activity. In contrast, the new information unit is not. It is to work in ministerial areas and its expenditure can be hidden easily from public view. I also ask senators on the Government benches how this new unit is to be accommodated within the staff ceilings which have been imposed upon the Public Service since the beginning of the period of the Fraser Government. I would like to know how the Fraser Government reconciles its frequently announced objective of reducing the number of public servants with so many new public appointments at high levels in this euphemistically named information unit. The Prime Minister has claimed consistently that his Government does not waste money on publicity and public relations, but already he has three journalists on his own staff, each one of whom earns more than $30,000 a year. I have mentioned this figure of $30,000 a year several times already in this debate because this seems to be about the average salary level for appointments to do this propaganda work. It is worth pausing at this point of the debate to consider what a salary of $30,000 or thereabouts means in the current economic situation. I expect that honourable senators know that half of the male workers in this country earn less than $ 1 90 a week and that half of the women workers in this country earn less than $137 a week. So half of all workers in Australia today earn less than $169 a week. By contrast, the appointments about which I am complaining today average in the vicinity of $450 a week. There is this sort of activity by the Government, which consistently and continually tells wage and salary earners that they should accept wage reductions and wage cuts, and that it is because of the level of wages in the community that Australia has an economic crisis. 
The Prime Minister, not content with the public image his personal staff has so far createdindeed, they have insuperable difficulties- has taken to hiring private public relations consultants to spruce up his deteriorating image. This years Budget provided $10,000 for a private company to take over from the Australian Broadcasting Commission the responsibility of producing the Prime Minister's speeches to the nation. The Governments attitudes and performance in regard to the ABC are well known. The ABC has had its staff and budget slashed; it has been accused of inefficiency and wasting the taxpayers money. Of course, by refusing to use the ABC to do the work it is set up to do, which includes prime ministerial addresses, the Government actually is creating areas of inefficiency and under-utilisation within the ABC, which it then uses to justify its on-going attacks on the Commission. It is a total waste of taxpayers money to ignore the ABC, which is properly set up and responsible for work of this kind, and go and spend the money on an outside company which perhaps might spend a little more time dealing with the television make-up problems of the Prime Minister. 
The Government does not even choose efficient outside agencies to do this work. I presume Government senators are hoping that people will have forgotten- I do not think the general public will have forgotten- the exquisite embarrassment of watching not only this year's prime ministerial address to the nation but also last year's address because the private company, Enterprise Colour Video Productions Pty Ltd, delivered the wrong film to the television station. It is interesting to look at this firm that is performing this task for the Prime Minister at cost to the taxpayer. Enterprise Colour Video Productions Pty Ltd has been the beneficiary of more than contracts to produce  Mr Fraser  's speeches. It is worth noting that in June last year the Australian Film Commission lent $250,000 to the Enterprise Colour Video Production company. 
A quarter of a million dollars- a significant figure- was lent by the Australian Film Commission to Enterprise Colour Video Production Pty Ltd to help that company escape receivership. Interestingly, that is the same commercial production house which now has the benefit of contracts from the Prime Minister to produce his address to the nation. 

 - Senator Chaney asks whether I am suggesting impropriety. The impropriety I am suggesting is in respect of the Government using an outside body to do the work that the ABC is properly set up to do. 
I am not suggesting impropriety on the part of the Film Commission. The loan by the Australian Film Commission to this company and the use of the company by the Prime Minister is a conjunction that is worth noting. The Budget also provides for $40,000 for an independent public relations consultant and producer,  Mr Geoff  Stone, who is to help the Prime Minister achieve a more acceptable image. The Government also has allocated $ 1 50,000 for a review of each of the Federal departments public relations units. We can identify at least $500,000 of public money which is being used by the Prime Minister simply for one reason, that is, to improve his Government's chances of being re-elected. 
There are other ways in which this Government is using public resources for party political purposes. In November last year I asked the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  as Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs whether the translation sub-section of the citizenship branch of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs had been instructed to translate the Prime Minister's weekly electorate talks for release to ethnic affairs groups. I was told that that was the case; that, indeed, officers of the Department had been assigned to the task of bringing the words of the Prime Minister to his constituents in Wannon to all the ethnic communities via a fairly expensive and complex task of translation. According to the Minister, the exercise was justified in that it was claimed, it was an implementation of the 
Galbally report in providing an information service to migrants. 
I was prompted to ask the question in the first place when I received a complaint about this instruction to officers of the Department from a constituent of mine who objected to what that constituent saw as the Government's misuse of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. After I had asked the question, an officer of the Department telephoned my electorate office to find out the name of the person who had complained. Of course, my electorate secretary did not divulge that name. It is worth asking why the Department was so keen to know who had made the complaint, if in fact the translation of the Prime Minister's electorate talks is merely a matter of providing information. There seemed to be undue concern and embarrassment about the matter, if that is all it was. It would be interesting to know what punitive action was intended towards my constituent had I divulged that constituent's name. 
I started by talking about the hypocrisy of the Fraser Government in these matters. I remind the Senate of a statement made by Malcolm Fraser to the National Press Club on 8 December 1975, before the election that made him Prime Minister. He said: 
One of the first concerns will be to secure the integrity and professional character of the Public Service, free from political appointments. Our system of government can only work effectively and efficiently with a politically neutral Public Service. 
I now ask: How does that fine claim square with the establishment of a Government propaganda machine and the misuse of Federal departments to gain political advantage? 
The Government has not just provided itself with publicly funded public relations machinery. It is also determined to do what it can to ensure that the Opposition does not threaten its security. The Government had departed, for its political safety, from fundamental principles of the Westminster system. It refuses to recognise the proper rights and the proper roles of an Opposition in the Westminster system. For example, last year the Remuneration Tribunal recommended that the Opposition front bench have 1 9 extra staff. The Prime Minister refused, perhaps illegally, to accept the Tribunal's recommendation. For reasons best known to himself, he would consent to only an additional 10 staff, thus contravening the recommendation of a Tribunal established for the purpose of determining staff and conditions of members of parliament. He would not abide by the Tribunal's recommendation. He gave only 10 extra staff, instead of 19. 
However, at the same time the Prime Minister found himself able to give five new staff to the Liberal-National Country Party back benchersthe so-called Government parties support secretariat, whose main function seems to be to help Government back benchers face up to the hostility they encounter, understandably, from all those groups and individuals in the community who are totally disenchanted with Fraser policies. The Government front bench has 230 ministerial staff, as well as the vast resources of the Commonwealth Public Service. On the other hand, the Opposition has 44 staff. 
The Fraser Government habitually uses public resources to further public acceptance of its own parties' policies. For example, in 1977 the Government's controversial and, I think, totally unsatisfactory uranium policy was published by the Australian Government Publishing Service in the form of an information kit. That kit was distributed to schools round Australia. Liberal and National Country Party members of parliament were told that they could have as many of the so-called kits as they wanted to supply to schools in their electorates. I sought to discover the exact number of kits that were printed and the exact cost to the taxpayer of that propaganda exercise, but accurate information was never forthcoming. So we can only speculate on what that propaganda exercise cost. 
It is not that the Government is always as generous as that in providing money for the printing of information of interest to the public. By way of contrast, when the report of the task force inquiring into the use of a communications satellite was presented- a matter of vast significance to the entire public; a matter about which there is supposed to be, in the words of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Tony  Staley, public debate- initially only 500 copies were printed and later another 750 copies were printed. However, it seems that the Government is still intent on spending large amounts of money to popularise, to explain or perhaps to justify its policies. In the  Australian Financial Review  of Tuesday of this week we learned that the Government intends to spend $ 17m on advertising its new energy policy. I do not question the need for governments to explain their policies to the electorate, but it would seem to me that with the vast machinery of the Commonwealth bureaucracy, with the vast back up of ministerial staff and advisers and with all the journalists in the famous Information Unit, for the Government to need to spend yet another $ 1 7m on a specific advertising campaign so that it can explain to the community what its energy policy is all about is simply disgraceful. 
The Australian Government Publishing Service has also had to foot the bill for prime ministerial ego. In 1976 Malcolm Fraser was presented with the 1973-74 annual report of the Australian Film and Television School, the presentation of which had been delayed because of administrative difficulties within the school. The report designated  Mr Whitlam  as Prime Minister, as he was in the period covered by the report. Prime Minister Fraser, miffed by this acknowledgment of reality, ordered all copies of the report to be destroyed and had the report reprinted with his name appearing in it. The cost was $2,000- not a great deal, honourable senators might say, but certainly a great deal when one considers that it was a completely wasteful and self-indulgent exercise. We are all aware that the Prime Minister's continual calls for belttightening in the community are not matched by his own pretensions. The purchase of two Boeing aircraft to transport him and his ministerial colleagues to and fro will cost the taxpayer $30m over three years. It will be necessary to spend another $200,000 on improvements to the Canberra Airport in order to accommodate the new jets. It is worth remembering what  Mr Fraser  said in Parliament on 25 March 1975. He said: 
On my own visits overseas, commercial aircraft will be used as far as possible. The argument that Qantas cannot provide adequate security for a Prime Minister is a specious argument and false. 
The falsity and the speciousness of the argument seem to have disappeared. Now we find that the Prime Minister cannot use the normal commercial services for his jaunting around and that $30m of the taxpayers money is to be spent on propping up this new ego-boosting exercise. 
-What it has to do with the motion is that I and my colleagues can find no reason for the use of these Boeing aircraft other than that they constitute image building for the Prime Minister and an attempt to establish in the minds of the electorate that the Prime Minister is such an important and outstanding person, flying around in Boeing aircraft as he does, that he must continue to be voted in as Prime Minister of Australia. I suppose that the $30m will be paid for pardy by the $2 7m which will be taken away from age pensioners this year because of the refusal of the Government to honour its promise to continue quarterly indexation of age pensions. An amount of $27m will be saved from that exercise this year and $30m will be committed to the purchase of the two Boeing aircraft. Of course, no enabling legislation for the purchase of those aircraft has been introduced. 
When one looks at public opinion polls, it is easy to see why the Prime Minister is so keen to improve his image. In January of last year, 57 per cent of the people approved of the way in which he was handling his job. The Morgan gallup poll for February showed that approval for him had dropped to 39 per cent.  Mr Vince  Mathews, the head of the Government's new Information Unit, said on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's  Four Corners  program that the object of establishing the Unit was to supply information. But the Government departments already have their own public relations units. At the same time as the Government is increasing expenditure on its image, protecting itself from criticism, it is cutting back on essential expenditure as far as the public is concerned. Jobs are disappearing from the health, education and welfare areas. Since 1975 there has been a decline of 9,8 10 in the number of full time jobs in the Commonwealth Public Service and the intention is to remove another 8,127 jobs from the Commonwealth Public Service. 
The Government has made its priorities crystal clear. Staying in power is far and away more important to it than is responsible government. When one remembers Malcolm Fraser 's constant criticism of the Labor Government for alleged extravagances- overseas trips, the misuse of public funds- one is amazed at this effrontery. Malcolm Fraser employs at public expense, directly and indirectly, 10 people to try to convince the Australian public that he is a good Prime Minister. He is in effect using the taxpayers money to protect himself and his Government from legitimate criticism and to create an Orwellian propaganda system which feeds socalled information about Liberal-National Country Party policy to the public and to the media. I urge the Senate to join me in condemning the Fraser Government for its scandalous misuse of public money. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, refers to statements made in last year's meetings of Senates Estimates Committee B by  Dr Miles,  the  Deputy  Director of Operations of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission.  Dr Miles  told the Committee that because of staff ceilings there were safety problems in the Atomic Energy Commission. For example, he said that the fire extinguishers were not being properly maintained. Can the Minister say whether that situation still exists? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
1 ) How many male and female pilots are employed in the Royal Australian Air Force. 
How many men and women are being trained as pilots by the Royal Australian Air Force. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) Was the public hearing for a commercial radio licence in Sydney's Western Suburbs in November 1977 conducted under the principal Act, the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942, before subsequent amendments were in force. 
Did the Tribunal delay announcing its decision until proclamation of the amended Act gave licensing power to the Tribunal. 
Why did the Tribunal significantly delay announcing its decision on this licence. 
Was the Tribunal denied information, evidence and opinion necessary to make a considered decision under the new Act, because the hearing was held under the Principal Act before amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 27 February 1 979: 
1 ) How many English language courses for migrant women have child care facilities. 
How many migrant women have attended English language courses at which child care facilities are provided. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. It follows a question asked earlier this evening with regard to apprenticeship opportunities in Victoria. Is the Minister  aware of a recent article in the  Australian Financial Review  which stated that for the year ending June 1979 Victoria faces a 10 per cent overall decline in new apprenticeships compared with a national decline of 5 per cent, a 33 per cent decline in new building apprenticeships compared with a national decline of 20 per cent and a 5 per cent decline in new metal trades apprenticeships compared with a national increase of 2 per cent? What are the reasons for this decline in overall national apprenticeship intake numbers? Is the particularly disastrous decline in apprenticeships in Victoria a result of Victorian Government policies or of Federal Government policies? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
Has the Galbally Implementation Task Force consulted with migrant groups in the Australian Capital Territory: if so, with which groups has it consulted; if not, when will it consult with migrant groups in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Will the Minister: (a) make available an analysis of the 1976 census data which relates to the non-English speaking migrant population of the Australian Capital Territory; and (b) instruct his Department to prepare a detailed report on existing community services as they relate to migrants in the Australian Capital Territory and make it available to the public. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 5 April 1979: ls the Minister's department studying the costs and benefits, from a financial point of view, of the proposed domestic satellite; if so: (a) when will such studies be completed, and (b) will the results of such studies be released to the public. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 November 1 978: 
1 ) What international agreements or treaties govern the allocation of each of (a) frequencies: (b) radiated power levels; and (c) radiation patterns in particular directions, for medium frequency radio stations. 
Is Australia a party to such agreements. 
Are there any considerations, practices or understandings additional to formal ones, which govern such allocations. 
In what publicly-available document may the conditions of such agreements be found. 
) At what level of radiated power output is it obligatory to consult international neighbours before an allocation is made. 
What procedures must be followed at levels both above and below any such level. 
Is the agreement of international neighbours needed at all levels of radiated power output; if so, which countries must be consulted by Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 February 1979 : 
1 ) How many men and women have been employed as trainee technicians in the Air Force, the Army and the Navy in each year since 1975. 
Are trainee technicians required to enlist for a specific period of employment with the defence forces. 
How many males and females who were trained as technicians by the defence forces left the defence forces: (a) after 1 year's service; (b) after 2 years' service; (c) after 3 years' service; (d) after 4 years' service; (e) after 5 years' service; (f) after 6 years' service; (g) after 7 years' service; (h) after 8 years' service; (i) after 9 years' service; and (j) after 10 years' service. 
I refer the Leader of the Government in the Senate to recent reports in the Press that a senior public servant from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet helped to prepare the TCN9 application to the Broadcasting Tribunal for a television licence renewal. I ask the Minister: What guidelines have been laid down by the Government on the participation by public servants in private enterprise when dealing with issues that are public and controversial? 
I support my colleague,  Senator Grimes,  who moved the following motion: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The need to exempt social security recipients and low income families from the Government's punitive economic measures. 
I support the motion because, as my colleague,  Senator Grimes,  has pointed out, at this stage there is a great deal of speculation throughout the community about where the axe will fall in the forthcoming August Budget. I was very pleased to hear the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  defend her Department, her income support programs, and the extent of appropriations she is able to secure for her responsibilities as Minister for Social Security. 
The Minister's defence, admirable as it was, does not dissipate the anxiety felt throughout the community and by senators in this chamber about the Government's intentions with regard to social security and low income families in the next Budget. I would remind the Minister that the anxiety which is caused at this time of year is not only caused by responsible or irresponsible speculation in the newspapers. It is now caused by the Government's own record. However carefully the Minister might set out the relationship between the consumer price index and inflation and the decision of the Government with regard to the indexation of age pensions, the fact remains that age pensioners in this community did have half-yearly indexation of their pensions. They no longer have that. They have only yearly indexation. Despite the arguments put forward about the inflation rate and how this might alleviate the effects of abolishing the six-monthly indexation, pensioners who are my constituents and pensioners who are constituents of every senator in this chamber claim- and they should know- serious distress and disadvantage arising out of the Government's abolition of the sixmonthly indexation. 
How can pensioners and other low income groups in our community who are dependent upon government programs feel secure at this time of the year when the Government has gone back on a specific promise? The specific promise was to maintain six-monthly indexation of pensions. That promise was broken and we have only 12 monthly indexation. There can be no argument about the effect that the abolition of sixmonthly pension adjustments would have on the recipients, lt was distressing in the extreme and contributes significantly to the fears and anxieties now felt by that section of the community. 
It is also the case that statements by Cabinet Ministers and senior Ministers in the Government to the effect that we are spending too much on social security, to the effect that the unemployed are getting too much money, to the effect that the unemployed are not genuinely without employment- statements of the kind quoted by my colleague,  Senator Grimes,  by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and particularly by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)-  do affect the public. These men do have status as Cabinet Ministers and what they say publicly is taken by the public- rightly so, I believe- as an indication of what this Government intends to do. It may not be the intention of  Senator Guilfoyle  to reduce unemployment benefits or to reduce social welfare payments, but the decisions in these matters are made collectively by Cabinet and the men making these statements are influential members of the Cabinet. I believe that it is not good enough for the public for  Senator Guilfoyle  to say that the statements made by  Mr Robinson, 

 Mr Viner and  Mr Lynch  are personal comments which do not indicate the Government's intention. 
We are concerned on this side of the chamber. We are concerned that the Fraser Government is pursuing a set of priorities in government funding that puts the pensioners and low income earners a very poor last. We have watched with dismay the deterioration of the position of the poor and the low income earners in Australia during the three and a half years of Fraser Government rule. At the same time, the profitability of big business has flourished, tax evasion by the wealthy in our community has prospered, and oil companies have received huge windfall profits because of the way in which the Fraser Government has decided to achieve import parity for the price of oil in Australia. Like all recessions, the effects of the economic recession we are experiencing are not distributed equally across the community. The poor, the pensioners, the unemployed and their families slip further behind in their ability to maintain a reasonable standard of living for themselves and their families, while big business and others in a position to exploit the economic circumstances make profits. 
I remind honourable senators that when we talk about low income earners and pensioners, when we talk about those on low incomes in this community, we are not talking about a minority. We are not talking about a handful of citizens who need special protection. We are talking about the majority. Despite the myths that prevail around the countryside that most people are well off and that there is an egalitarianism with regard to income, the fact remains that we are a very unequal society in terms of income. Figures to this effect are published in various sources, but I remind the Senate of a statement made, admittedly in 1971, in the London  Times  on 10 March. It is still very pertinent and very relevant. The statement reads: 
Distribution of wealth (in Australia ) is among the most inequitable (unequal) in the civilised world. The rich are very rich and the poor are very poor and while there is really no excuse for poverty in such a potentially rich country, nevertheless it exists to an alarming degree. 
That appeared in the London  Times  on 10 March 1971. I refer  Senator Hamer,  who has suddenly shown an interest in this debate - 
I refer  Senator Hamer,  for contemporary and up-to-date data on income distribution, to a very admirable publication recently put out by the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union entitled Australia Ripped Off' which collates a number of statistics, all from official sources such as the Australian Bureau of Statistics and other reputable data-gathering bodies in this country. The publication collates a number of figures which show just that situation. For example, at August 1 978 the average weekly wage was $ 1 80 a week, 56.4 per cent of workers received less than $180 a week, and 16 per cent were earning less than $100 a week. The average male wage at this stage is $205 a week and the average female wage is $136 a week.  Senator Hamer  is about to leave the chamber or move around and show his contempt for these figures.  His  attitude is typical of the attitude amongst the privileged in this community that there are no such people as the poor in Australia and that nobody earns less than a few hundred dollars a week. The facts gathered by the agencies now administered by  Senator Hamer's  Government show otherwise. They show that the bulk of Australians earn a very low income indeed as compared with the income earned by the top two or three per cent. 
I refer now to the priorities of this Government and our concern for them. This is the main point that I want to make in my contribution today. If we look at the way in which the Government has acted with respect to taxation and companies, we find that the 40 per cent investment tax allowance to companies has cost $400m this year. We find that changes in the oil pricing policy have resulted in $100m windfall profits going to the big oil companies. We find that the abolition of estate and gift duty has cost $30m. At the end of the coal export levy in the next financial year, there will be a cost of $ 100m. Company taxation will be reduced by $300m in the financial year 1979-80, with the implementation of full trading stock evaluation. The total revenue forgone in the financial year 1977-78 through the main taxation concessions to industry was in excess of $820m. I think it is worth looking at those subsidies to big business and corporations and comparing them with what is saved by reductions in social security. Although this Government has made much of the need to reduce public expenditure and has got enormous mileage out of the wasteful extravagances of the Whitlam Government in respect of public expenditure, the Fraser Government has not reduced public expenditure. Overall, there has not been a reduction in the amount of taxpayers' money that is collected and spent by government. What has happened is that there has been a reallocation of that money. Certainly there have been cuts in public expenditure- time will not permit me to enumerate them in detail- in areas such as pensions, child care, legal aid, Aboriginal health programs and community health programs. There have been savings to Government in that area, but the savings have merely been redistributed in the form of investment allowances and other subsidies to big business. So what we see is not a saving of the taxpayers' money but a redistribution from the social services area to assistance to corporations. Of course, that is all we can expect from a government with the philosophy of this Government. 
Yes,  Senator Hamer  has withdrawn, perhaps to look at the publication I referred to and check the figures. He will find that they are quite accurate. I remind the Senate that the saving from the abolition of the halfyearly indexation of pensions was $60m which, adjusted for inflation, might mean a total of $70m. For a saving to the Government of $70m, we have all the disappointment, concern and hardship caused to pensioners in our community. 
It is a very fine thing that we have here in the Parliament today many members of the Australian Pensioners Federation who have come to Canberra to put the case for pensioners throughout Australia. It is very admirable that pensioners are energetic, organised and committed enough to do this, but it is very shameful that the case they now have to argue is the case to regain a benefit they once had. Eighteen months ago, when I met with members of the Pensioners Federation, they had come to Canberra to put the case for quarterly indexation of pensions because they felt that half-yearly indexation was inadequate. Since that time they have gone backwards, and now they have to come to argue the case for half-yearly indexation. At the same time, many programs conducted throughout the community which are important for low income earners, not only pensioners, are going without adequate funds. I will give an example of one program which has caught my attention. The Working Womens Centre in Newcastle runs a range of services such as a child care program for working women in the area, including migrant women and aged women. Recently this organisation had to close its health centre because it was unable to get from State or Federal government the $20,000 it needed to maintain the service until the end of the financial year. For want of $20,000, an essential community health service is being closed down. At the same time, something like $400m is going to the income investment allowance. lt is the priorities of this Government that the Opposition questions at this stage. It is our concern to raise these matters for discussion in the Senate in the hope of persuading the Government to reallocate some of the money in the forthcoming Budget to the areas where it is most needed. We do not want the position of the pensioners or low income earners in our community to deteriorate any further. We do not want any greater gaps between the rich and the poor in this country than we have now. I am very pleased that recently the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  admitted on a  P.M.  program that there are many unmet needs in our community. The Minister enumerated those needs as being in the areas of the handicapped, aged persons' care, domiciliary care and so on. There are many unmet welfare needs in this community. We want to see the Government proceed to meet some of those needs. Whatever economic strategy it will implement in the forthcoming Budget, we urge the Government to exempt from its harshest provisions the pensioners and the low income earners. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Is the Government taking any steps to discover the extent of functional illiteracy amongst adult Australians? Is the Government providing any programs to overcome the problems of illiteracy amongst adults? 
by leave- I rise briefly to endorse the remarks of  Senator Davidson,  the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, in respect of the transcripts which he has just tabled of the inquiry into the effects of television on children's learning and development. I endorse his expressed concern that all members of the Senate and, indeed, all members of the Parliament, should take note of the  material he has tabled today because undoubtedly the quality of children's television has become an extremely topical and controversial issue in our community. There is no doubt in my mind, as I think there can be no doubt in the minds of any of the members of the Committee, that there is widespread discontent throughout the community about the standard of children's television in Australia. There is widespread concern also about the effects of excessive television watching on children's learning and development. 
In considering the material that has been tabled today, the Committee sought to formulate recommendations which were feasible and practicable, which could be implemented by the Government and the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal without encroaching on the rights of the licencees of television stations to make profits and to have a very high degree of freedom in their choice of programming. We recognised the kind of contribution made by the industry to our community. However, we feel that it is quite possible, without venturing into the area of censorship or undue government regulation, to take steps which will ensure that some of the concern about children's television viewing habits in Australia can be alleviated. Given too the recent research report released by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal with regard to children's television, I support  Senator Davidson's  request to the Government that action be taken immediately to consider and to act upon the recommendations of the Senate Committee's report. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
Was the instruction book,  Visits Abroad by the Prime Minister of Australia,  revised to specify that refrigerators should be provided in each room occupied by the Prime Minister's official party; if so: (a) on whose instruction was the change made; and (b) what was the cost to the Government of providing and stocking refrigerators for the Prime Minister and his official party (i) in Bonn during his visit to West Germany and (ii) in each of the other stops made by the Prime Minister during his most recent overseas trip. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) How many women and men received training under the National Employment and Training Scheme in the year 1977-78. 
In which areas did those women and men receive training. 
by leave- I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Poker Machine Control (Amendment) Ordinance 1979 contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 7 of 1979 and made under the Scat of Government (Administration) Act 1910 be disallowed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) How many females and males received apprenticeship training under the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme in the years 1975-76 and 1977-78. 
What were the areas in which female and male apprentices were trained in those years. 
How many males and females received apprenticeship training under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training Scheme in the year 1977-78. 
In which areas were males and females apprenticed under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training Scheme in 1977-78. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a recommendation made last night in the other place by the honourable member for Canberra,  Mr Haslem,  to the effect that dole payments should be withdrawn from unemployed persons who are under 25 years of age. Does- this recommendation follow any work carried out in the Minister's department as to the capacity for financial independence of unemployed persons who are under 25 years of age? Can the Minister indicate whether the Government intends to adopt  Mr Haslem  's recommendation? 
-I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The failure of the Government to clarify issues surrounding the proposed communications satellite for Australia. 
The Opposition raises this matter today because of its significance and seriousness and because of the negligence, amounting to irresponsibility, in the treatment of it by the Government. The Government has under consideration a proposal which would change the nature of the broadcasting and communications industry throughout Australia and which would have the most serious of implications for employment, particularly for Australia's largest employer, Telecom Australia. Yet virtually no serious, accurate or sound information is given to the public on most of the issues concerning the establishment of a communications satellite for Australia. When I say that the matter is of significance to all Australians, I point out also that it is of particular significance to people living in remote areas who may, as a result of the Government's decision to proceed with the communications satellite, experience a marked improvement in their access to communications facilities. On the other hand, they may, according to some critics of the proposal, find that their hope of getting improved communications, particularly in areas such as telephony, will be jeopardised by the communications satellite. 
A very disadvantaged section of the community whose access to what we city dwellers would consider to be a basic range of communication facilities is very much engaged in this debate, yet the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and the Government generally have failed to clarify all the major issues surrounding it. The Government has not clarified why, at this stage of the development of the Australian communications system, this particular form of satellite is being considered. I must make it clear, for those honourable senators and members of the public who are listening, that the proposal concerns a particular kind of satellite- a relay satellite. It does not concern a direct broadcast satellite, which would be extremely flexible and extremely useful for remote areas. It does not involve the same thing as is involved in the Government's decision to lease a part of the Intelsat satellite. Many discussions that I have heard by members of the community show great confusion in the community about the capability of a direct broadcast satellite, which of course is not yet available on the market, compound with the very limited capabilities of the relay satellite, which is the one currently under consideration by the Government. 
Why at this stage should we have a relay satellite? The Government needs to clarify that point. Who is the satellite being erected to help? The Government needs to clarify that matter. In particular, the Government needs to clarify the relationship between the services that could be offered by a relay satellite and the services which are currently being offered through the terrestrial system by Telecom Australia and which are planned by Telecom to be offered up to the mid 1 980s when, according to the Telecom plan, the communications needs of all but 40,000 remote dwellers will be brought into the communications system. We need to be told who will pay for this satellite proposal and we need to be told- this is a fundamental requirement- how much the proposal will cost. The Government has done nothing to clarify any of these issues. At the same time, it has not clarified the relationship of the proposed relay satellite, and the increase in broadcasting facility that will accompany it, with the current provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act. Quite clearly, as foreshadowed in the report of the Task Force on National Communications Satellite System, there would need to be significant amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act if new television licenses were to be provided in relation to the satellite. 
At the same time we have heard nothing from the Government as to the role of the Australian 
Broadcasting Tribunal in the allocation of new licences which may become available in order to use the facilities provided by the satellite. But the major concern of that section of the community which has concerned itself with this subject, of the Opposition and of other critics of the Government 's satellite proposal is the complete failure of the Government to give us hard evidence with regard to the cost of the proposal. Scepticism or concern about the cost of a communications satellite for Australia did not originate with members of the Opposition. It originated, I remind honourable senators, with the Government's own Task Force report on a National Communications Satellite System. In that report the Department of Finance dissented from the main recommendation. I remind honourable senators of some of the reservations raised by the Department of Finance in bringing down its dissenting report. I raise them again at this stage of the debate because it seems to me to be quite scandalous that the Government has not addressed itself to the cost reservations expressed by the Department of Finance. On page 1 32 of the report, the Department of Finance states: 
In my view the improvements to Australia's communications capacity which could evolve from the basic model system are marginal improvements to a communications infrastructure which provides already a sophisticated, high quality service by world standards. I am not satisfied that it has been established that these marginal benefits could bc provided necessarily at less cost by means of a satellite system. 
As to improvements in existing services, the Department of Finance says this: 
In respect of the improvements in quality and reliability that are envisaged, I consider that the Task Force has not established that the cost of a satellite solution is justified by the marginal improvements likely to be achieved and the relatively restricted segment of the community which would benefit from those improvements. 
With regard to the provision of additional services, in particular telephony, the Department of Finance states: 
The Task Force has estimated that a communications satellite service would provide facilities for high quality automatic telephone services to about 2,000 locations (accounting for not more than 40,000 people) in remote areas of Australia. I appreciate that a satellite system could provide a solution to the telephony problems of remote areas which probably would be less costly than a terrestrial solution, but it would be most expensive nonetheless. The Task Force has indicated that . . . the capital outlays involved for this service alone could be of the order of $60m. Taking account of operational costs, annual charges and revenues, the total outlay by the Commonwealth or its agencies during this period could approach $ 1 20m. 
The report goes on: 
It is pertinent also to note that, to the present time the . . . amount of capital expenditure which  . . Telecom has been prepared to incur ... to the individual subscriber has been of the order of $20,000 . . . If it were expected to provide a service to the more remote locations, it would seek some assistance from the Government to meet the costs involved. 
I add that, on these figures, that would be about $40,000 per service. In the conclusion of the dissenting report the Department of Finance states: 
As indicated above, the Commonwealth and its agencies could have to outlay of the order of $ 190m (in 1978 prices) during the period to 1991-92 for a basic national communications sattelite system as envisaged in this report  . . The inclusion in the proposed system of a remote area telephony service might add to the order of $ 120m to these Commonwealth outlays and the further addition of the suggested form of direct broadcasting to remote areas could add in the region of another $90m. 
If the Government is prepared to provide the several hundreds of millions of dollars which are to be spent to initiate a satellite communications system in this country, let it say so. But the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  has not said this. The Minister, in any public statement he has made, has used figures which are quite conflicting with the figures of the Department of Finance. He has spoken of a much lower outlay. He has spoken of recent developments in Canada. He has presented no evidence of technology or the pricing of the technology which in off-the-cuff remarks he has claimed to be available. Whilst the Opposition is totally sympathetic to the needs of remote dwellers for improved communication services, and sympathetic to the reality that those services will have to be heavily subsidised by the public, we believe- I think the community as a whole believes- that a better attempt at costing the proposal needs to be made before the community and the Parliament can make up its mind that the expenditure is justified. 
As far as benefits, other than telephony, for remote area dwellers are concerned, we believe a great deal of confusion surrounds the potential beneficiaries of the satellite proposal. Certainly it is clear that a number of large corporations would benefit. It is certainly clear that the television entrepreneur,  Mr Kerry  Packer, would benefit from the facility to have a commercial national network. It is clear that companies such as Western Mining Corporation Ltd, Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, IBM Australia Ltd and the Australian Mining Industry Council, all of which made submissions to the Task Force inquiry, would benefit particularly from the data transmission facilities which would be available through the satellite. Large corporations would welcome the satellite facility. They would welcome it particularly because it would seem that their facility for profit making activities would be heavily subsidised and underwritten by public money, in particular by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which is nominated by the Task Force report as a prime user of the satellite. 
If it is the Government's intention to put the country further into serious debt to provide services for these big corporations, then let it say so clearly. Let the Minister for Post and Telecommunications not pretend that his main concern is for the communication needs of outback dwellers. So far the Minister has not clarified the extent to which the public would be subsidising data transmission facilities for corporations such as the ones I have named. Other possible beneficaries have been nominated in the Task Force report and the Federal Opposition is extremely sympathetic to the possible benefits that could flow to such groups. These groups include, of course, the remote area dwellers whose communication needs are very severe. The Opposition believes that there is a serious need for the provision of telephone, radio, perhaps television, and certainly a need for improved health and education services which could flow from satellite facilities. We believe that the special needs of the Aboriginal communities in remote areas could be met to some extent by improved communication through satellite technology. We believe that there is a need for better broadcasting in the regional areas of Australia, although I wish to make it quite clear that I do not believe that improvements in regional broadcasting would come about by allowing the Channel 9 network to establish a monopoly and put out of business the current broadcasters in regional areas. Experience of city dwellers proves beyond doubt that more television does not necessarily mean better television, and more television stations do not necessarily mean a better choice for the viewers. So I warn people in regional areas that although they properly are agitating for better broadcasting, the current proposals in the satellite report certainly would not provide this. 
We are sympathetic to the requirements of public broadcasters who are hopeful that in the years to come they may get public access to improved television services as, in recent years, they have been able to get access to radio services. The Opposition is sympathetic to all these groups and to their needs. We are not opposed to satellite technology. I must say that very clearly at this stage of the debate, because other impressions have been gained or alleged by some sections of the community and the media. The Australian Labor Party, the Federal Opposition, is not opposed to satellite technology in principle. We would welcome any developments in communications technology if the Government could guarantee the following principles. I will enumerate these as being our requirements for a satellite proposal which the Federal Opposition could support. First of all, we would want to see telephony and broadcasting to remote areas at a cost that the taxpayer could afford. We would want to see protection of the existing massive investment of $6.5 billion of the taxpayers' money in Telecom Australia. We do not want to see a massive public subsidy of private corporate activity through the satellite. We want to see employment creating activities rather than employment destroying effects of satellite technology. We want to be assured that there will be no increase in the current private ownership monopoly in the broadcasting area. We want to be assured that there will be a preservation of local services that are currently provided by regional broadcasters. Finally, and I say this very clearly, the Federal Opposition would insist on public ownership and management of all communications facilities so that they could be operated and managed in the interests of the public. 
The Opposition welcomes the announcement by the Government that at last there is to be a wide-ranging inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting Commission. For some time the Opposition has been calling for a major inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In our view there should be a royal commission. It appeared that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  had accepted our suggestion that it should be a royal commission when he said on 2 June last year that he believed it would be best to call such an inquiry a royal commission. But, the ABC is not to be investigated by a royal commission. The Minister, as usual, has bowed to the views of his more senior colleagues. However, a wide ranging inquiry, with broad terms of reference, is to be held into the ABC. We are pleased to see that the terms of reference are wide and not restrictive. A number of subjects which I had hoped the committee of review would consider have not been mentioned in the terms of reference but the terms are not restrictive and I hope to see them considered. 
The Opposition would seek clarification and reassurance however on a number of matters outlined in the statement made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney).  There has been, as  Senator Chaney  has just said, no review of the ABC's role or structure since it was established in 1932. It is for this reason that the inquiry is of very great importance. This inquiry will set the pattern for future periodic reviews, as outlined in the Green inquiry. It will, I believe, set the pattern for the future of the national broadcasting service, and to some extent the complementary broacasting services throughout this country. 
The Opposition wishes to make the following suggestions to the Government. First of all, the three members of the committee of inquiry should set the precedent that the public will not only be able to lodge written submissions but will also be able to present oral evidence at public informal hearings. As the Government is aware, the business of establishing a proper form of public inquiry in the broadcasting area is not an easy one. The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has fallen into difficult times in this respect. I would hope, from the experience of the Tribunal and the improved guidelines for the conduct of future public inquiries, that the committee of review and the Government may have learned some lessons as to how to set up and conduct a public hearing. It is of the utmost importance, in our view, that as ail Australian taxpayers pay for the national broadcasting service, all Australians should be able to contribute to this very crucial inquiry if they have anything of significance to contribute. We hope it will be a public inquiry. 
Secondly, we are pleased to see that members of the staff of the ABC will be able to put submissions to the inquiry. I would like to hear from the Government an assurance that staff members will be free to put their views about the ABC without prejudice to their career prospects within the ABC. 
I notice that  Senator Chaney  takes note of that point. One honourable senator seems to be surprised that I should raise this matter. It is no secret to those who work within the public sector that it is not always easy to express frankly and freely one's views about the organisation in which one works. It is no secret that such expressions of views are not always accepted by one 's senior officers. As the staff of the ABC has, I believe, experienced many frustrations in recent years, particularly about the management and role of the ABC, I take this opportunity to say that I hope that every freedom will be given to staff members so that the people who are working to produce a national broadcasting service can contribute to the inquiry and can make improvements as a result of it. 
I am also concerned to ensure that the committee of review, plus the secretariat which will be servicing it, will be given sufficient funds and support facilities to discharge its functions adequately. I suggest that the secretariat staff for the inquiry should not be drawn from the already depleted ranks of the ABC, unless staff ceilings are eased, and that money for extra salaries be made available. 
I now wish to express the views of the Federal Opposition, and my own views, about what we hope the outcome will be. We hope that there will be no attempt throughout this inquiry to consign the ABC the role that the commercial lobbies, the Federation of Commercial Television Stations and the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters, have long sought. I would state again the Federal Opposition's view that the ABC should not be relegated to minority programming for a cultural elite. Its statutory responsibility, as defined in the Broadcasting and Television Act, is that it 'shall provide, . . . adequate and comprehensive programs and shall take in the interests of the community all such measures as, in the opinion of the Commission, are conducive to the full development of suitable broadcasting and television programs. ' I would hope that that particular provision of the Broadcasting and Television Act will be retained. 
This inquiry will be the first opportunity to spell out fully the relationship of the ABC with the other sectors of broadcasting. I think one matter of interest to the public, particularly to the ethnic groups within the community, will be a definition of the relationship between the ABC and the new special broadcasting service which has been set up by the Government to provide a form of broadcasting for ethnic groups. At this stage the Opposition and, I believe, many ethnic groups are unhappy about the current relationship between the special broadcasting service and the ABC. We see the special broadcasting service as being far too vulnerable to ministerial whim and as encroaching upon the independence of the ABC. We hope that that unsatisfactory relationship will be rectified as an outcome of the inquiry. 
Close attention should be paid to the role of the Commissioners of the ABC, to the method of their appointment and their relationship with the ABC management. The Federal Opposition would suggest, as it has suggested on previous occasions, that important appointments such as appointments of Commissioners to the ABC should not be made unilaterally by an individual Minister but should be considered by a bipartisan committee of the Parliament. Of course we recognise that the government of the day, even if it pursued this procedure, would still be able to appoint the people that it wished to appoint as Commissioners of the ABC. But we would suggest that, by having a bipartisan committee of the Parliament review prospective appointments as Commissioners, we might find ourselves with a body of Commissioners who more broadly represent the aspirations of the Australian public than has been the case from time to time under the current method of appointment. I am also concerned to see a new and clearer definition of the role of the General Manager of the ABC. I would suggest that, as is the case with the British Broadcasting Commission, there be a limited life to the appointment of the General Manager. 
I will not delay the Senate at this late stage of our session by outlining all the views that the Federal Opposition has in respect to the review. 
No. There are many other matters which I could raise but, because of the situation in which we find ourselves, I will not raise them. I am sure that I and all members of this chamber will have the opportunity to express opinions to the committee of inquiry into the ABC. I hope that the ABC inquiry will be a serious one; that it is not simply a strategy by which the Government hopes to defuse the ABC situation as an election issue. Undoubtedly it would have been an election issue because of the savage cuts and other treatment by the Federal Government. Quite clearly any criticisms which we might like to make now about the Government's treatment of the ABC will be answered by a reference to the inquiry. I hope that in the Government's view the inquiry is more than just a way of avoiding criticism for its treatment of the ABC and really is a genuine attempt to restructure Australia's national broadcasting service in such a way that it can properly serve the interests of all members of the Australian public for the rest of this century and into the next one. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
How many employers or employer groups have been approached by the Minister's Department with a view to setting up work-related child care centres for ethnic communities- as recommended by the Galbally Report. 
I raise with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs the matter of the land claim by Aboriginals living in the Wreck Bay area near Jervis Bay, which is Commonwealth territory. Is the Minister aware that the Aboriginal community at Wreck Bay has rejected an offer by the Government for a lease of 87 hectares of land? Is he also aware that the Aboriginal community at Wreck Bay wishes to make a land claim with regard lo an area of 400 hectares in the Wreck Bay area? Will he say whether the Government would be prepared to extend the provisions of its land rights legislation to cover the Australian Capital Territory as well as the Northern Territory, which it covers currently, in order to provide a mechanism whereby the Wreck Bay Aboriginal community could make a land claim? 
On behalf of the Opposition, I rise to make a response to the statement just put down by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on behalf of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  Indeed, my duty is a most onerous one. The statement we have just heard is a disaster for the health standards of Australian citizens, lt completes the destruction ofthe universal health insurance system to which the Labor Government was committed and lo which on many occasions we had been led to believe that the Fraser Government was also committed. What is contained in the statement before us is a scandal. First of all, the subsidy for primary health care has gone. There will now be a requirement on all patients to pay the first $20 themselves. 
The subsidy for preventive health care is gone. 
I understand the anxiety of Government senators to try to disguise and to confuse the effect of the statement. The fact is that the subsidy for primary health care has gone. The fact is that people will be forced into private health funds, whether or not they can afford to join them. 
As  Senator Cavanagh  says, they might be buried. 
There is no Medibank left,  Senator Teague.  There are only private health funds, and the scale of rates for insuring with them will increase on an average by $3.50 a week. 
1 will endeavour to ignore  Senator Walters.  The statement before us has failed to attack the fundamental cause of rising health costs throughout Australia, which is the fee for service payments of doctors at hospitals. The effect of the statement is thoroughly inequitable in that it in no way is related to the ability of people to pay. The statement is put forward with an economic rationale, but let us look at the economic argument that has been put forward. The total saving represented by the measures introduced tonight will be $38 lm in the financial year. Does a saving of $381 m justify the disruption that will occur to health services throughout Australia and the extreme inequality in the way the new burdens will fall upon the community? How can it be justified in economic terms- in terms of the Government's own strategy of reducing inflation- when the cost of private insurance will go up by $3.50 a week? 
It will be $3.50 a week. Health insurance and medical insurance will increase, according to the Government's own statement- which may well be inaccurate- by $3.50 a week. This increase will be made up of $1 plus $1.50 for the other charge. That represents an increase of 1.3 per cent in the consumer price index. How are we to interpret the statements of a government which, on the one hand, insists regularly and at tedious length that it wishes to reduce inflation and, on the other hand, imposes this burden on the community which will result in a 1.3 per cent increase in inflation. 
I claimed at the outset that the subsidy for primary health care has gone. That claim caused great shrieks of disagreement or surprise or consternation from Government senators, and in particular  Senator Walters.  I will explain what I mean. Under the new arrangements the patient will be required to pay the first $20 of any schedule fee. What does that mean? It means that the cost of every visit to the general practitioner will be borne by the patient. There will be no subsidy paid because the fee is less than $20. Every visit to a specialist falls into the same category because at this stage that fee is still less than $20. So primary health care, which is the first stop at the general practitioner, is no longer subsidised. 

 - Senator Tate has pointed out exactly what the effect will be. The effect will be that people will put off that first visit to the general practitioner. People will put off the second or third visit to the general practitioner after an initial visit because they will have to bear the costs entirely themselves. 
We will get to that alternative. Where is the sense in destroying the subsidy to primary health care? I quote from the National Health and Medical Research Council Discussion Paper 1978. It reads: 
. deterrent charges if effective might lead to delays in diagnosis on a scale that increases total costs. 
I submit that that is exactly what will happen as a result of the $20 payment requirement. The discussion paper goes on to say:   . . it is seldom too early to report a serious illness. 
People will not report a serious illness early enough to get proper care if they cannot afford to pay ibr the doctor's fee. The discussion paper continues: 
Primary care accounts for only IU percent of total health expenditure and. if reduced access to primary care caused even a marginal rise in the incidents  of advanced  disease, the savings would be illusory. 
I submit that the saving of $381 m from these new measures will be illusory because people will put off going for their primary care. They will put off going to the doctor until they are seriously ill. As a result the community will bear the cost. That does not take into account the social costs that the family will have to bear. I remind the Senate that it is not only the pensioners or the disadvantaged- although I will deal with those later- who cannot afford to pay. I remind honourable senators who seem to find this a surprising idea that a family on an average income, with three or four children, going through a period of illness, will find having to pay for every visit to the general practitioner or every referral to a specialist, an intolerable burden. 
The Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  claims in his statement that, despite these new impositions and new costs, the Government will offer continued support for less costly, non-institutional care, including community health and school dental programs. That was a claim made in the statement delivered tonight, but how seriously can we accept this promise when we look at what happened in the last Budget? There were cuts in those very services which the Minister for Health pretends that he is going to maintain. These cuts were announced at the Premiers Conference of 22 June last year. There was a cut in the allocation for welfare housing of $70m; a cut in hospital funding of $42. 6m; a cut in the allocation for the school dental scheme of $5.1 m; a cut in community health funding of $7m; and a cut in funding for children's services of $7m. All of those items impinge on community care. 
It is quite clear that the Government is not maintaining the level of its assistance to the noninstitutional care. Funding in that area has been cut along with everything else. The end result will be poorer health for the community. People will delay going to the doctor and they will become seriously ill; and there will not be community facilities to support them. I will give one example concerning the school health system. Community nurses have reported to Opposition senators that when a medical complaint for a school child is diagnosed the parents are notified so that the first stage of primary care can be entered into. But the parents do not follow the advice of the school nurse because they cannot afford the next step. There is a case where the community services are being reduced to the point where the whole purpose of their existence is lost. 

 Mr Hunt claims that there will be a continuation of the special subsidy for pensioners and disadvantaged persons.  Senator Walters  has made much of that in her interjections. The Minister's implication, and the implication of other Government senators who have spoken, is that the provision of the benefit, the disadvantaged category, covers all the people who cannot afford to pay. I say quite clearly and simply that it does not. There are many people who, because of temporary or particular circumstances, cannot afford to pay the full price but who do not fit into the category which many doctors are prepared fo classify as disadvantaged. Any member of parliament who claims that that is not the case must be out of touch with the Australian electorate. 
A recently reported survey of doctors in the Bathurst region to see how they were responding to this new category of disadvantage showed that only two doctors were classifying patients as disadvantaged. That is just one example of how this disadvantaged category is not offering security to all people who cannot afford to pay. 
Indeed. In my electorate of the Australian Capital Territory, which is regarded by many people as being an above average electorate in terms of the ability of people to pay, I have had many complaints from constituents who have not been able to get the disadvantaged category. I have taken this up with the Capital Territory Health Commission. I have asked it what the guidelines are. I have asked it to give me information so that I can advise my constituents as to which doctors are prepared to make a realistic application for the disadvantaged category. I have had no satisfactory response. I have simply had from the Health Commission the bland statement that the guidelines are being considered and that doctors have to make the decision. That statement is totally unsatisfactory. 
Some are and some are not,  Senator Walters.  But what do you do if you have got very sick children? You cannot run around from doctor to doctor. It is a totally unsatisfactory situation and no member who is in touch with his or her electorate could claim that the disadvantaged category is catching all those people who cannot afford to pay full medical costs. 
Clearly, because of the measures outlined tonight, people will be forced into joining private health funds. I remind the Senate just how wasteful and inefficient is the operation of private health funds. Again I quote from a report of the Health Insurance Commission of 1976-77. It found that the expenses of administering Medibank Standard constituted 4.2 per cent of the cost of benefits paid. The administration expenses of administering private health insurance constituted 1 5.7 per cent of benefits paid. 
That comes from a report of the Health Insurance Commission,  Senator Teague.  It demonstrates that the administrative costs of private health insurance funds are very much higher than Medibank. It is quite clear, at least to Opposition senators, that the cost of administering private health funds is much higher than was the cost of administering Medibank standard, which no longer exists. Therefore people will be forced into expensive, inefficient and wasteful private health funds. We hear from the Government tonight that there is to be an inquiry into hospitals. The Government is concerned about the inefficiency and wastefulness of hospitals. Indeed, the Opposition shares the Government's concern. 
It is my contention that the real escalation of costs in hospital care arises from the system of fee for service payments for private doctors operating in hospitals. No suggestion is made in the statement that there will be any attempt to contain those costs. Instead, the Government will be looking at bed occupancy. That is well and good. The Government says in its statement that there is only 65 per cent occupancy of hospital beds. Maybe that is too low. I would suggest that if the Government thinks that simply by reducing the number of beds in public hospitals it is doing anything to improve the health standards of the community it is quite wrong. In fact, if it becomes an objective of the Government to reduce the number of beds available in hospitals, I suggest that that will increase the health problems of the community because the community is now denied primary care. If people are seriously sick they will go to the hospital and find that there is no bed available for them. 
I would like honourable senators to consider why it is- in some cases, at least- that there is a low occupancy rate of beds in public hospitals. In my electorate there is a serious problem which is identified as an oversupply of hospital beds. When you go to the hospital and speak to the administrators and the people working there they say that the real problem is staff ceilings. The beds are unoccupied because the staff is not available to service those beds. In the Australian Capital Territory, for example, there is a very serious problem- a lack of available geriatric beds for geriatric nursing. But the hospitals cannot use their empty beds for geriatric nursing because there is no staff to service those beds. I just caution that any inquiry into hospital beds should take account of staff ceiling policy and not simply count the beds and adopt the same policy towards hospital beds as the Government has adopted towards the staff of the public service. 
The statement brought down this evening on behalf of the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  is only the last of a series of disasters by  Mr Hunt  which the Australian public has been forced to put up with. For example, in 1976  Mr Hunt  said that health maintenance organisations would move in and start to take over a lot of health costs. Here we are in 1 979 and what do we have? We have no health maintenance organisations. In 1976  Mr Hunt  announced that the Australian Medical Association was to do its own peer review of prices charged by doctors in order to reduce costs. Here we are in 1 979 and we have no peer review with.regard to costs and no decline in doctors fees. Every move by the Government, with  Mr Hunt  as Minister for Health, has been a move against the patient. 
I remind the Senate of other things that  Mr Hunt  has said in his inglorious career as Minister for Health in this country. In 1978, when he announced the last lot of changes to Medibank preceding this lot, he said that the 40 per cent refund that was to be general and permanent was 'practical and desirable'. If the 40 percent refund was practical and desirable in 1978, why is it no longer practical and desirable?  Mr Hunt  also said: 
Medibank introduced the concept of medical benefits regardless of means. This principle is being retained. 
That situation certainly no longer applies.  Mr Hunt  said in 1978: 
No one will bc obliged to privately insure. 
As those Government senators who have been interjecting so vigorously have pointed out, people will have to privately insure. All we have heard all night from Government senators is: Let them privately insure'; even though  Mr Hunt  promised that no one would be obliged to privately insure. In 1978  Mr Hunt  said: 
My Government recognises that an important key to the containment of health costs rests in the hospital area. It is therefore vigorously pursuing the rationalisation initiatives . . . 
The only rationalisation in the statement before us tonight is abdication of responsibility. The Government will make the States pay more.  Mr Hunt  also said in 1 978: 
In summary, the revised Medibank arrangements will provide a better and simpler system of universal health insurance for all Australians. 
What has happened? The universal health insurance system has been abolished and everything has been handed over to the private funds. I will conclude now, although there are many other criticisms the Opposition could make. I know that all members of the Opposition and, I believe, the Australian public generally will continue the health insurance debate. I believe that the measures brought down tonight- the destruction of the universal health insurance scheme, the removal of subsidy for primary health care and preventive care- will be totally unacceptable to the Australian public. They will be as unacceptable to the Australian public as they are to the Opposition. 
I recognise that the debate this evening is only the beginning. The Opposition will continue to agitate for a restoration of universal health insurance and it will have the support of the community in doing so. At the earliest possible opportunity the Opposition will overturn the inequitable, irrational and, economically, totally unjustified measures which will do nothing other than to add to the burden of health costs and create a situation in which the health of the Australian community must necessarily suffer. 
Motion ( by  Senator Guilfoyle)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned and that the resumption or the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- There are in effect two motions. The question referable to the adjournment should be put first. 
Motion ( by  Senator Guilfoyle)  agreed to: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Motion ( by  Senator Guilfoyle)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The Government's deliberate policy to allow social security and health services to decline'. 
The Opposition raises this matter as a matter of urgency today, which is the first opportunity we have had to do so, because of the provisions of the mini-Budget which was presented in this place last Thursday night. It is the contention of the Federal Opposition that the contents of the mini-Budget reveal a determination- a deliberate policy- on the part of the Fraser Government to reduce the standard of living of all Australians and, in particular, to withdraw proper provision of social security and health services for the community. The mini-Budget introduced in this place last Thursday night was bad news for all Australians. It exposed the total failure of the Government's economic strategy and the chaos of its health and welfare programs. 
There were two outstanding features in the mini-Budget: First of all, as the media of this country have already noted, all the promises of the Fraser Government regarding tax relief and tax indexation were broken. Secondly, universal health insurance was finally and totally destroyed. The subsidy for primary health care was abolished and hospital charges were increased. The end result will be that most Australians, particularly those with families, will have to pay more than they can afford for health care. As a result, the health of the community will deteriorate and consequently the overall cost of health care to the community will increase. 
I would like to specify one group of people who have suffered dreadfully as a result of the Government's failure with regard to health insurance provisions. I refer to Commonwealth Government pensioners under the compensation for Commonwealth employees legislation. These people are on compensation, many for the rest of their lives, because of the service they have given to the Commonwealth Government. They are overwhelmingly former workers of the large employing agencies of the Commonwealthpostal workers, Telecom employees, Commonwealth drivers and police. They have had only one rise in their compensation payments in the four years that this Government has been in power; whereas workers have had many rises and until last November even pensioners received rises twice a year. 

 - Senator Teague seems to be wondering about the pertinence of this matter. To prove their eligibility for compensation benefits these people have to go continually to doctors for certificates. They cannot go to a new doctor because it is important that they stay with the doctors who know their medical history. They are in receipt of only $80 a week, they are taxed $3.70 a week and they have no fringe benefits. and no medical entitlements whatsoever. I contend that these pensioners cannot, on the sum of $76.30 a week, afford health insurance of $ 1 5 a week. If they are uninsured they will pay $9 a week or more for one test and one trip to a specialist would cost $ 1 8 or $27. This is an extra financial penalty on the exCommonwealth workers whose compensation the Fraser Government has refused to raise, for a trifling $100,000 a year. This is only one group which will be very seriously disadvantaged by the changes in health insurance and by the abolition of universal health insurance which the Government has just perpetrated. 
The effects on social welfare and health services of the mini-Budget are, I believe, of basic concern to the entire community. I would like to draw the attention of honourable senators to the words of Cardinal Freeman, the Catholic Archbishop of Sydney. He said, during a 2SM broadcast last night that it would be unjust if the family, the sick and the aged were chosen as victims of reduction in Government benefits. He referred to a national income survey taken in 1975 which showed that 7.3 per cent of families had incomes below the poverty line. Quoting the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, the Cardinal said that family life could be harmed by the stress and restricted opportunities created by low income. He said: 
We should work together to create a nation in which the needs of the family are always our prime concern. 
The words of Cardinal Freeman are very pertinent to what I am saying today because the tax and health measures of the mini-Budget will force more Australian families than the 7.3 per cent who are already in poverty into poverty and into the concomitant distress of living in poverty. 
As well as its attacks on the well-being of families, the mini-Budget is a scandalous document because of what it has omitted. We are attacking the mini-Budget for that reason also. We and the pensioner community of Australia believed that there was a likelihood that the Government, in bringing down a mini-Budget, would decide to restore justice in the area of age pensions. We believed that it would restore the twice-yearly indexation which had been promised to pensioners by the Fraser Government and by the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  and which had been withdrawn. 
I contend that it is scandalous that the twice yearly indexation of pensions was not restored in the mini-Budget of last week. The situation of pensioners in our community in relation to wage earners has deteriorated ever since the Fraser Government came to power. I cite figures to support this statement. The increase in the age pension between 1972 and 1975- the years of the Labor Government- was 93.75 per cent. The increase in the consumer price index for the same period was 50 per cent and the increase in average weekly earnings for the same period was 67 per cent. During the period of the Fraser Government we have had an increase in the pension of only 37 per cent, whereas the increase in the consumer price increase has been 35 per cent and the increase in average weekly earnings has been 32 per cent. So it is quite clear that during the period of the Fraser Government the ability of pensioners to keep up with the cost of living has deteriorated markedly in comparison with their ability during the period of the Whitlam Government to cope with increases in the consumer price index. 
Another omission which is the cause of great concern is the failure of the Government to do anything at all in the mini-Budget in regard to family allowances. There has been no indexing of family allowances since they were increased and no attempt to compensate families for the loss of income which resulted from the abolition of the rebate scheme. I simply draw the attention of the Senate again to figures which show that as at the end of the last financial year the following losses have been incurred by families as a result of the failure of the Government to index or increase the family allowance payment: For a family with one child the loss has been $3.50 a week, for a family with two children, $8.50 a week; for a family with three children, $ 14.50; for a family with three children with one student child, $14.50; and for a family with three children with two student children, $ 14.50. It is quite clear that by the changeover to the family allowance system, which initially was of benefit to families, this has now become another area in which families are failing to keep up with inflation. The mini-Budget which was presented last week contained no relief for taxpayers, families or pensioners. 
The other glaring omission about which I would like to make a few remarks is the Government's total failure to do anything to create jobs. Australia has about half a million people unemployed at this stage. Unemployment has reached that level because of the economic crisis we are in. The Government brought down a miniBudget in response to the economic crisis. What do we find? We find that not one cent is allocated for the creation of jobs. The only mention that the unemployed got in the statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  was a threat to remove social security benefits from some of them. The Treasurer's threat to remove social security benefits is not an isolated one amongst the Ministers of this Government. We have had similar threats from  Mr Viner, Mr Lynch  and yesterday from the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony.  All of them are orchestrating a new campaign against dole bludgers. All of them are making remarks and statements which seem to be aimed deliberately at penalising unemployed youth and at creating within the community a tremendous prejudice against unemployed youth. We believe that all of this is designed to build up in the community a climate whereby the Government will be able to afford to withdraw unemployment benefits from young unemployed persons. 
At a time when we have a ratio of unemployed youth to job vacancies of something like 30 to 1 , it is a scandal that all the Government can do is threaten the unemployed youth with withdrawal of benefits. The Australian Labor Party knowsand I believe that the general public knows- that what the unemployed youth want is jobs, not threats. To get jobs they need some training. Yet the Government is refusing to train young people. It is condemning young people to the dole, harassing them with regard to their eligibility for benefit and creating prejudice in the community against them. Yet it is doing nothing effective to train the majority of them for employment. 
I would like to refer to a question that was asked of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in the other place on 23 May 1979 by my colleague,  Dr Jenkins,  with regard to training. He asked:  ls it a fact that the Government intends to bring 40,000 to 50,000 skilled tradesmen to Australia as migrant workers between 1979 and 1985? Can he explain why the Government spends thousands of dollars sending migration officials around the world to recruit skilled labour when in Victoria alone the ratio of apprenticeship seekers to unfilled apprenticeships is 57 to one? ls it a fact the Australia's reliance upon immigration as a source of skilled tradesmen denies training opportunities to thousands of unemployed young people, causing unnecessarily high levels of youth unemployment? 
The reply from the Minister was totally unsatisfactory. It is quite clear that the Government, for its own reasons, prefers scurrying around the world seeking skilled migrants to giving job training opportunities to Australian youths who are currently unemployed in such scandalous and tragic numbers. 
The honourable senator asks me to be specific. I will be very pleased to do so. I have here, and I will be happy to table it if required, an advertisement that was inserted by the Australian Government in a German newspaper. It says that Australia is looking for people qualified in different trades. The tradesmen required are enumerated as computer programmers or computer analysts, toolmakers, fitters, mechanics, motor mechanics, panel beaters, turners, boilermakers, carpenters, ladies hairdressers, butchers, pastrycooks and bakers. We ask: Why are those categories available to skilled persons who wish to emigrate to Australia, when thousands and thousands of Australia's youths are unemployed and would love the opportunity to train - 

Leave granted. 
I table the document. I am glad that  Senator Walters  has insisted on its being tabled, because it makes so clearly the very point that the Opposition makes. Although hundreds of thousands of our unemployed youth would dearly love the opportunity to enter upon an apprenticeship, and there are job vacancies in these skilled areas, the Government is making no provision for them to do so. We are not arguing that people with these skills should not emigrate to Australia. However, if there are job vacancies in these areas, and Australian youths are anxious to train for them, why does the Government not spend some money to get them off the dole and into training for available employment? I hope that during this debate a Minister will answer this crucial and fundamental question on behalf of the Government. Instead of funds for the training of unemployed youth, and other unemployed people being increased, or maintained at the same level, there have been, in fact, cuts in training programs. The figures show that by the end of March 1979 a total of 17,308 trainees were enrolled in the National Employment and Training scheme, compared to a peak figure in August 1978 of 52,664. This is a reduction of 67 per cent. 
The Special Youth Employment Training Program, the only Government measure in operation that has the potential to reduce youth unemployment, has been savagely cut back. The number of trainees now stands at 8,233 compared to the peak figure of 39,319 in August 1978. This is a reduction of 79 per cent. These savage reductions in traineeships for Australian youth simply cannot be squared with the 
Government's claims that it does not wish to see young people unemployed. The solution is in its own hands. It is quite proper for the Government to embark on training schemes that will enable young people to train rather than be subjected to the dole and all of the social opprobrium that that brings with it. It is a scandal that in response to an admitted need for trained workers, the Government has recruited only 230 extra apprentices. In response to the claim that employers need more assistance to take on apprentices, which is true, the Government has increased the apprenticeship training subsidy by only $ 1 a week. This is totally inadequate. This is not a situation which the Opposition or the public can take as evidence of good faith with regard to the unemployed. It is clear that the Government is deliberately acting in such a way as to continue a high level of unemployment, particularly amongst youth; it is deliberately acting in such a way as to arouse community antagonism to unemployed youth in order that it may proceed with what will be more severe work tests or other devices to reduce the number of young people in receipt of unemployment benefit. 
I wish to make a few remarks about the question of work tests and the statements of many Ministers that there are unemployed people who do not want to work and that the taxpayer should not subsidise them. It is my experience as an elected representative of the Australian Capital Territory, and it is the experience of many of my colleagues, that the parents of young unemployed persons do not wish those young people to be forced away from home to look for work. With all the social problems that are rife in the community at the moment- in particular the drug problem but also the problems of violence, sexual violence and so on- families are not happy with the situation where 16 and 17-year- old girls and boys will be forced to leave home to travel to other cities or to country towns in search of work. The Opposition has never claimed that unemployment benefits should be paid to people who do not want to work. It does believe that work tests should be realistic. It does not believe that the Government can disguise the facts of unemployment by introducing unrealistically severe work tests that will require, in particular young people leaving home and travelling to strange cities or towns to seek jobs, often which do not exist anyway. The Opposition believes it would add to our social problems and to the problems of unemployed youth if such tests were to be introduced. 
As my colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland says, it is Depression mentality. I suppose there are some people in this place who can remember the Depression, and there are others of us who have studied the effects of that economic crisis on the society of the time. One of the worst effects was the terrible disruption to families caused by the breadwinner and young people leaving home to search for work. The Opposition believes that the youth of this nation wants to work and needs the chance to work. It believes that a responsible government could follow the example of many democracies in Europe, the United States of America and Canada, and embark upon job creation and proper training schemes. That is the appropriate response to the level of youth unemployment, not these veiled threats and accusations of being dole bludgers; not these insinuations that we are to have work tests that will create even more pressure and strain on families. 
I know that my colleague,  Senator McClelland,  has much to add to this debate. The Opposition considers that the mini Budget brought down last Thursday night represents the total failure of the Government's economic policy and the total failure of a responsible government to cope with the problems facing this society. The Opposition was shocked and horrified to see universal health insurance abolished. We on this side know that the effects of maintaining such high levels of taxation on the average family will be catastrophic. We know that the failure of the Government to do anything about job creation and training will simply exacerbate the problems of unemployment. We know that the failure of the Government to secure the health services of this community will be counterproductive both in an economic and in a social sense. 
The Opposition seeks from the Minister during this debate assurances that the hints and threats by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and, as recently as yesterday, by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)-  a person who speaks with great authority on this matter- will not be carried out. We want to be assured that unemployed youth will not be the new scapegoats for particularly harsh work tests and that withdrawal of benefit will not be supported by the Government. In conclusion, I allege again that the decline in the living standards of pensioners in the community, the anxiety and distress caused to genuinely unemployed persons, the difficulty they have in getting unemployed benefit and, particularly now, the total disruption to the health services, are matters of urgency. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is the husband of an invalid pensioner who is forced to stay away from work to look after his invalid wife and four small children granted a spouse allowance to enable him to do this or is he forced to take special benefit and lose all right to fringe benefit? If the latter is the case how does the Government justify discrimination against the family where the wife and not the husband is the invalid pensioner? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 April 1 979: ls the Treasurer's department studying the costs and benefits, from a financial point of view, of the proposed domestic satellite; if so: (a) when will such studies bc completed, and (b) will the results of such studies bc released to the public. 
Is the Minister for Education aware that there is to be a public meeting held in the Australian Capital Territory this evening to be attended by parents, teachers and students from schools all over the Australian Capital Territory protesting against threatened closures of high schools and Narrabundah College in the Australian Capital Territory? Does the Minister agree that this situation of threatened closures has come about as a result of the failure of the Federal Government to provide adequate funds for Australian Capital Territory schools? Can he say whether he is prepared to permit the closure of Narrabundah College? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
1 ) What are the terms of reference of the Interdepartmental Committee on the Working Group investigating the satellite proposal. 
Will: (a) the submissions to, and (b) the report and findings of, that Working Group be made available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
What study, if any, is being conducted into any possible alternative means of providing telephone services to the estimated 40,000 people who cannot be provided for under present plans for terrestrial network development. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
What study, if any, is being conducted into the economics of various forms of television networking which have been suggested in connection with the domestic satellite proposal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission been asked for, or has it been offered, a commitment for desired space on the Australian Domestic Satellite. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
Has any company, organisation or individual: 
a ) offered to contribute towards the capital cost of an Australian domestic satellite; and 
b ) sought or offered to join in any consortium to operate such a satellite. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) What studies, if any, are being conducted of the employment implications for (a) the telecommunications industry: and (b) banking and clerical areas of data transfer, of the proposed Australian domestic satellite. 
) When will any such studies be completed and will they bc released to the public. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) Have commercial radio and television operators been formally asked by the Interdepartmental Committee now investigating the satellite proposal, for their projected requirements of space on the proposed Australian domestic satellite. 
What commitments have been received from (a) commercial television operators; and (b) commercial radio operators to use space on any projected Australian domestic satellite. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) Which companies, individuals or organisations of any kind have been asked for commitments or requirements for space on the proposed Australian domestic satellite. 
What commitments or estimates or requirements have been given and by which companies, individuals or organisations. 
Have any companies, individuals or organisations indicated any level of price which they would be prepared to pay for use of space on the proposed Australian domestic satellite. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) Which members of the Task Force on a National Satellite System travelled overseas between December 1977 and September 1978. 
What countries, companies, agencies or other institutions were visited by each of these members. 
What was the total cost of overseas travel by the Task Force and what proportion of each Task Force member's trip was met by: (a) the Australian Government: and (b) the  host ' country, company or agency. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) What Ultra High Frequency channels will be allocated in major metropolitan centres for use by the permanent ethnic television service. 
Will the licence for such UHF stations be held by the Special Broadcasting Service or will licences be held by community groups or commercial operators. 
What is the estimated cost of the first full year of operation of the permanent ethnic television service. 
Will the cost of a permanent service be met wholly by Government appropriations or is the service to be financed also by sponsorship and spot commercials. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) What are the planned hours for transmission of the pilot ethnic television program in Sydney and Melbourne. 
Will that pilot service be relayed to other centres with a large ethnic population. 
What percentage of locally produced programming is scheduled for the pilot service. 
Which companies or organisations responded to the Special Broadcasting Service's request for interest in supplying programs for the ethnic television service. 
What companies or consultants have already been engaged by the Special Broadcasting Service in preparation for the pilot ethnic television program. 
Which officers of the Special Broadcasting Service or consultants retained by the Service have travelled overseas to procure or to view program material. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) Were applications for renewal of the television licences held by Television Broadcasters Ltd, Southern Television Corporation Ltd and Southern Australian Telecasters Ltd, received in the first instance by the Minister or by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
When did the Minister refer any applications received by him to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
Were all the above applications for renewal made in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. 
Did the Tribunal, or any member of it, or members of its staff, hold briefings on the renewal hearings with television licensees, including applicants for renewal, prior to the commencement ofthe hearings on 16 October 1978. 
Were such briefings held at the Institute of Management Building and Noahs Northside Motel, North Sydney, in early September; if so, (a) when; (b) who was present; (c) did the meetings relate to official Tribunal activity; (d) was the  Chairman  of the Tribunal aware of them; and (e) when did the Minister become aware of them. 
Were matters relating to procedures and admissibility of evidence by witnesses discussed. 
Were any undertakings given by any of the Tribunal members to any ofthe licensees or to the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations; if so, what are the details. 
Were any minutes ofthe meetings kept; if so, are they available to the public. 
Were any briefings announced publicly before they occurred. 
Was any information on the matters dealt with at the briefings made public. 
Were those intending to appear at the hearings made aware of the briefings. 
Was any pre-hearing briefing offered to any intending witness at the hearings at any time. 
Were all pre-hearing procedures for dealing with witnesses and applicants carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Act. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Is it a fact that the University of Sydney intends to sell its ocean-going research vessel because it can no longer meet the running costs of the vessel? Did the University appeal to the Government for help in April of this year? In view of Australia's new 200-mile marine economic zone, and the urgent need for research, when will a decision be made on this matter? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take  note of the  statement. 
The Opposition welcomes the reductions in telephone call rates which have just been announced, which will affect people in rural areas and outlying areas of our major cities. The past charging structure of the Australian Telecommunications Commission for those areas has been a matter of concern to the Opposition. The Opposition is aware that the high cost of calling a local centre at trunk rates in thinly populated regions of rural Australia has compounded the disadvantages suffered by country dwellers. In metropolitan regions, people living in the new outer suburbs and satellite towns have been penalised by having to pay trunk rates for calls to the metropolitan centre. 
We welcome the fact that Telecom belatedly has recognised those shifts in population and has accepted that many people living in outer metropolitan zones make the majority of their telephone calls, whether for business or social purposes, to numbers in the metropolitan zone. That recognition is welcome. But the 9c timed call from outer zones to the metropolitan zone may have dangers which should be noted. It is rather contradictory that calls from those outer zones are recognised as local calls and charged at 9c and are then timed to three minutes. Local calls for 9c within the metropolitan centre are not timed. I ask: Is this timing of the 9c call to be the beginning of the introduction of timing for all local calls? If that is the case, Telecom and the Government ought to state their policy clearly. 
Also, the new charging structure for rural areas recognises an economic fact of life, namely, that high charges have been a positive disincentive to greater use of the telephone network. As with the reduction in the cost of off-peak trunk calls announced by Telecom last year, we may well see a significant increase in marginal revenue without an increase in average costs to Telecom. If that is so, it is a rational policy for a public utility to pursue, namely, that the fullest use of the publicly-funded telephone network should be encouraged by imposing the lowest possible charges on the telephone user. As the sole common carrier of telephone and telecommunications traffic in Australia, Telecom is well able to pursue such pricing policies. 
The Opposition trusts that Telecom will be allowed by this Government to pursue policies of lower charges to the telephone user whether in rural or metropolitan areas. But that ability is seriously prejudiced by the proposal now before this Government to bring a domestic satellite into the Australian network and to have that satellite owned by a separate statutory authority. Such an ownership arrangement would broach Telecom 's monopoly and allow a satellite authority to 'cream skim' traffic from Telecom in the lucrative growth areas of data, telex and fas.cimile transmission. Without those growth areas average costs would rise and the telephone users, rural or metropolitan, would be left to bear higher- not lower- charges. 
If the Government is committed to ending the tyranny of distance' within Australia it should ensure that the telecommunications network remains wholly publicly owned under the statutory authority best able to manage it- that is, Telecom. We might then be able to see further reductions in charges and a more equitable distribution of Telecom's vast surplus- last year it was $ 180m- amongst the Australian community. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

That the Poker Machine Control (Amendment) Ordinance 1979, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 7 of 1 979, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 19 10, be disallowed. 
I do this for a number of reasons. Firstly, it represents a dramatic change from the present arrangement, for which 63 per cent of the voters in the Australian Capital Territory voted last November. As honourable senators will recall, at that time a referendum was held on the question of self-government. One of the options that was put to the voters of the Australian Capital Territory was that of retaining the present arrangements. The present arrangements included a provision whereby 10 per cent of the profits from poker machines in Australian Capital Territory clubs were to be allocated to local charitable, welfare and community organisations by the Legislative Assembly, the elected body of the Australian Capital Territory. That was quite clearly and unambiguously a part of the arrangements which prevailed last November at the time of the referendum on self-government. It was for those very same arrangements, including the arrangements whereby the Legislative Assembly disbursed the poker machine profits, that 63 per cent of voters in the Australian Capital Territory voted. 
It is a very serious dereliction of duty on the part of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  to ignore the express wishes of 63 per cent of voters in the Australian Capital Territory. He put to them a number of propositions. They have voted for one of them and now, retrospectively, he has changed the arrangements for which they voted. That is the first, and perhaps the most significant reason why I have moved for the disallowance of this ordinance. 
I would point out too that the method by which the Minister chose to introduce the ordinance was extremely suspect and improper. The Minister decided to withdraw this power from the Legislative Assembly, without consulting it or giving it, as the elected body of the Australian Capital Territory, any notice of his intentions in the matter. As a consequence, a very lengthy and heated debate took place in the local Assembly. The result was a unanimous call by the Assembly for disallowance of the ordinance. That is another reason I have moved for its disallowance today. Unlike the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Ellicott,  unlike Government members and senators generally in this place, I do not disregard a call from the locally elected body. In particular, I do not disregard a call from the locally elected body when it is unanimous and so clearly based injustice and right. The Legislative Assembly opposed unanimously the ordinance that is before us and called upon all honourable senators to vote for its disallowance. As a senator representing the Australian Capital Territory, I am prepared to heed its call and so I have moved this motion today. 
A third and very serious reason for my opposition to this ordinance is that it is undemocratic and arbitrary in nature. We do have elected local representatives of the Australian Capital Territory. In fact, it will not have escaped the notice of honourable senators that we have now a newly elected body of people representing the Australian Capital Territory, of which the majorityprobably the vast majority- will be Labor Party members. I just say in passing that it is quite clear that it is the Australian Labor Party- not Government Minister, members or senatorswhich in the Australian Capital Territory has the confidence of the local electors. 
The fact remains that we have a locally elected body which ought to be able to express the wishes of the people who elected it in matters such as the disbursement of poker machine funds. It is a retrograde step, in what is supposed to be a democratic system, that the rights of a properly and democratically elected body to make decisions with regard to local community organisations should have been taken away arbitrarily and placed in the hands of the Minister himself. Even though he is not elected by the people of the Australian Capital Territory he will now make all the decisions about the disbursement of poker machine funds to local charities and organisations. He has, I suggest, no genuine, ongoing interest in what happens to the various community and welfare organisations in this Territory. Despite this undemocratic situation, he has decided simply to take the money in question- we are talking about a substantial amount of approximately $2m a year- unto himself and allocate it as he chooses, in absolute opposition to the wishes of the locally elected body. So his action was undemocratic and arbitrary and for those reasons the ordinance also ought to be opposed. 
Another serious economic problem will emerge from this arbitrary decision by the Minister for the Capital Territory. His decision will reduce by $2m the net benefit of funds accruing to the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory. Up until now the $2m from poker machine profits would have been extra money over and above whatever the Government decided to allocate in its particularly punitive and tight-fisted way to the Australian Capital Territory. Over and above the Government appropriation would have been this extra $2m from the poker machines. This money has been generated by activities of local citizens and should properly go back to the local community. But now it appears that this $2m will be taken by the Minister and brought into the normal spending framework of the Department of the Capital Territory. I am convinced that the amount allocated to the Australian Capital Territory by the Government will now be reduced by a figure approximating $2m. So instead of the poker machines generating some extra money for community and welfare organisations in the Territory, that $2m net gain to the citizens of the Territory will be lost by this arbitrary decision of the Minister. 
I point out that we are discussing this disallowance motion at a time when there are extreme problems in the Australian Capital Territory. Here in the nation's capital, as a result of the Fraser Government's policies, is the highest level of youth unemployment and unemployment generally in Australia. Consequent upon this disastrous management of the Australian Capital Territory by the Fraser Government we have more calls on local charitable and community organisations than ever before. Welfare and other community organisations simply cannot meet the needs that have been generated in this Territory by the hostile policies of the Fraser Government. But instead of making a genuine attempt to meet the welfare needs of the Australian Capital Territory through proper appropriations, the Government is merely using this ploy of taking the poker machine funds to give to the Minister as an excuse for proper welfare funding. 
This matter was debated in the House of Representatives yesterday. I read very carefully the remarks made by the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Ellicott. His  reason for introducing this ordinance is totally unsatisfactory. The only reason that he appeared to have was that he was critical of particular decisions taken by the Assembly in respect of disbursement of poker machine funds. I, and any honourable senator or member, may be critical of those decisions. The debate is not about particular decisions taken by a body of the Legislative Assembly at a particular time; it is about whether we are to follow the democratic principle of locally elected members making decisions or whether we are to be subject to the extremely arbitrary decisions taken by the 
Minister for the Capital Territory. For the Minister to suggest that he has had to take this step because he personally disagrees with particular decisions of the Assembly is totally unconvincing. This debate is not about particular decisions in respect of poker machine funds; it is about who should make those decisions. I submit that those decisions should be made, as they were made properly and legally prior to the introduction of this ordinance, by the locally elected body. 
As I said, the reason why there has been controversy over some of the decisions of the Legislative Assembly is that there are too many competing demands for the poker machine funds. There are demands from welfare bodies, sporting bodies and other community organisations. All these demands are competing and, of course, the Federal Government is not providing anything like adequate funds to meet the needs which are articulated by these bodies. The competing demands have led to controversy and criticisms of individual decisions. But instead of responding to these demands from and genuine needs of community organisations, the Minister is simply grabbing the poker machine funds and, 1 suspect, using them in the long run to reduce the funds allocated by the Government to the Australian Capital Territory. I moved for disallowance of this ordinance because it represents another serious breach of promise to the Australian Capital Territory electors. It is another arrogant, undemocratic act by a Minister in the Fraser Government and it represents yet another attempt by the Fraser Government to evade its responsibilities in the area of welfare and community services in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Townley)-  Is the motion seconded? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-byleave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the reports. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move as an amendment to the motion That the Bill be now read a second time ': 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted so that registered funds will continue to pay the current appropriate benefit to eligible contributors for the full period of their stay in hospital '. 
The Opposition has a further amendment to clause 9. 1 move: 
At the end of the clause add the following sub-clause: 
Where a redeployment declaration is made pursuant to sub-paragraph ( I ) (b) (ii) or (2) (b) (ii), such declaration shall include full details of- 
the declaration made and the reasons for it; 
the date from which the redeployment declaration is to be effective; and 
the rights of and methods for appeal against the declaration.'. 
I think the terms of the amendment are selfexplanatory. The Opposition seeks to add a subclause concerning the redeployment declaration. We want that declaration to include full details of the declaration made and the reasons for it, the date from which the redeployment declaration is to be effective and the rights of and method for appeal against the declaration. 
During the course of the Committee stage debate in the other place I think the responsible Minister said that such matters as we are seeking to include would be a matter for regulation. However, that is unsatisfactory to the Opposition and it is unsatisfactory to the relevant unions. The Professional Officers Association, the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations have all urged that these additional conditions concerning the making of a declaration should be included in the proposed Act and should not be left to regulation. For this reason, in order to require the Government and those people administering this Act to act fairly and openly in respect of declarations, we submit that the Opposition's amendment to clause 9 should be included. 
The Senate is debating the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1979 which was introduced by the Government with the claim that its aim was to increase efficiency and to reduce costs in the Public Service. In the view of the Opposition, the Public Service unions and associations, as well as the Returned Services League, it is a Bill designed to provide the Government with machinery to offload thousands and thousands of persons employed in the Commonwealth Public Service in order to reduce its deficit. The Bill expresses the Government's ideological prejudice against people who work in the public sector. In the course of the debate last evening Opposition speakers outlined in great detail the many objections we have to this Bill. They outlined also the many objections of people who will be affected by the Bill, namely, the Commonwealth employees. I do not intend- and I see that  Senator Chaney  is pleased that I do not intend- to go over all those objections in detail. Suffice it to say that while we welcome the provision for voluntary retirement at 55 years of age with reduced benefit, we oppose virtually all the other measures in the Bill. The Bill is a deliberate undermining of the independence of the Australian Public Service. It places in jeopardy all those public servants who in good faith give advice or information which is contrary to government policy. 
The legislation affects not only the Commonwealth Public Service but also all Australians. I say that because I think we realise that all citizens benefit from an independent Public Service. Such a service operates in the interests of all citizens and not specifically in the interests of the government of the day. We believe that redeployment in itself is a good thing. We do not oppose the concept of redeployment. We approve of measures which would provide a more efficient and economical service to the public, but we reject this Government's claims that this Bill is intended to provide a more economical or efficient service. The Government is not concerned with service to the public. It is clear from its record that service to the public is the last thing on the collective mind of the Government. This Government's inflexible staff ceilings policy in the Public Service has produced a situation whereby the Public Service is unable to provide essential services to the public. The Public Service Board in its annual report of 1 978 states that the standard of service to the public has plummeted and will continue to plummet because there are not enough staff to do the job and because there is reduced mobility between departments so that the available skills within the Public Service cannot be used to the best advantage possible. 
For over three years this Government has deliberately eroded the efficiency of the Public Service. How can anyone believe now that the Bill is intended primarily to improve efficiency? For example, take the Government's responsibilities to help find jobs for the unemployed people it has so casually written off as a sacrifice to its obsessive but losing battle with inflation. At the end of March the New South Wales Commonwealth Employment Service offices needed an extra 279 people- only 279 extra staff so that the offices could be fully operational. That was an extra three staff per office. But the Government has not been concerned to improve the efficiency of the CES offices. Those extra staff were not provided, so why should we believe at this stage that service to the public is the purpose of the Bill before us? In assessing the motives behind this Bill I think we should look at how seriously the Government takes its responsibility as an employer and provider of employment. In the last year of the Labor Government 3,226 people were recruited into the Public Service- 1.4 per cent of school leavers in that year. In the first year under the Fraser Government only 1,430 people- 0.6 per cent of school leavers- found jobs in the Public Service. As the Government abrogated its responsibility to school leavers job opportunities in the private sector declined month by month. There is absolutely no doubt that the Commonwealth Public Service could be improved and managed more efficiently. The Opposition- the Federal Labor Party- supports such objectives. The Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration which carried out its work during the period of the Whitlam Government, recommended a manpower budgeting system which could gear staffing levels to work requirements and standards of service. It recommended the abolition of arbitrary staff ceilings because a staff ceiling policy cannot possibly achieve increased efficiency or more rational use of resources. This Government's policy has proved that arbitrary staff ceilings result in inefficiency, reduced levels of service and low morale. Why did the Fraser Government not adopt the recommendations of the Coombs Commission? I suggest it was because the Fraser Government is blind to the interests of the Australian public and is determined to create a sycophantic and ideologically rigid Public Service which will serve the Government 's own interests. 
I would have thought that  Senator Archer  would be very familiar with the word 'sycophantic '. 
I would have thought that ideological rigidity is a concept which would also be most familiar to  Senator Archer  and to many of his colleagues. We have always had a Public Service which makes every effort to operate on a merit system, because only on such a system can we be assured that the Public Service is free from political interference, neopotism and outside manipulation. It seems to be necessary at this stage of the debate to reassert the importance of a Commonwealth Public Service to the proper operations of our country. There seems to be deep-seated ideological prejudice on the other side of the chamber that somehow the bureaucracy just is not necessary, and that somehow public servants are lazy parasites on the free enterprise system. I remind honourable senators who are victims of this ideological inflexibility and rigidity, that an efficient, progressive and adaptable Public Service is one of the marks of a progressive democratic system. If we look at countries whose systems we abhor, such as the countries of Eastern Europe, totalitarian states and so on, we find that inefficient over-heavy stagnant bureaucracies are one of the characteristics of them. The Opposition's argument for a better bureaucracy, a better Public Service, is an argument for a better and more progressive democratic system. That principle seems to have eluded  Senator Archer  who has finally seen the point and is nodding his head. The two basic principles of a merit system are, firstly, employees must be protected from arbitrary action, personal favouritism or political coercion and, secondly, employees must be protected from reprisals for lawful disclosures of information. I suggest that this Bill jettisons the merit principle and will leave Public Service employees without the necessary protection. Sections 20, 67 and 87 of the existing Public Service Act already contains provisions whereby excess permanent staff may be retrenched, persons who have reached the minimum retirement age may be retired and persons who are inefficient may be retired. The Government already had the means to increase the efficiency of the Public Service. All it needed to do was to modify the existing provisions in the Act in order to develop an appeal and review system and it would have had a workable framework. 

 - Senator Archer's intervention is wrong. This Bill does not do that. Instead of making those simple modifications to improve the Act so that it could operate in the interests of the public without intruding on the rights of public employees, the Government has chosen to draft legislation which will spell the end of a critical, creative Public Service. Clauses 7, 8, 9 and 15 of this Bill will turn the Australian Public Service into an extension of the LiberalNational Country Party propaganda machine. We will proceed with our objections to those four clauses in more detail at the Committee stage. Clause 7(1) (b) (III) of the Bill provides that Public Service employees may find themselves defined as being in a class of employees excess to the needs of the Public Service. The determination of 'excess' can be made on the basis of any prescribed reason. But the Bill does not define what a prescribed reason can be. I fail to see how the Government can sustain the view that this is a just provision. 
I fail to see how this Government can argue against our view that by the inclusion of this clause it is giving itself the machinery whereby it can offload thousands and thousands of publicservants for any reason whatsoever, including party political reasons- reasons of political harassment. The reason can be prescribed and that matter does not have to come before the Parliament. That is the situation. The Government can get rid of whole departments as, indeed, it got rid of most of the staff of the original Medibank scheme without any scrutiny by the Parliament of that act. The Bill further provides that if an excess public servant or class of persons cannot be redeployed then he or she may, under this legislation, be retired, that is sacked. If that employee is under 55 years of age there will be no provision of benefits in relation to that retrenchment. I repeat that point, because a lot of the propaganda of the Government has suggested that anyone who finally does find himself retrenched- that is sacked- as a result of the Bill, will receive some form of compensation by way of superannuation payments or whatever. Such special provision relates only to people who are sacked after they turn 55 years. There is no provision at all for the employee under 55 years who finds himself or herself sacked. That destroys absolutely the character of the Public Service as we have known it up till now. The Minister has said that there is a right of appeal, but that right of appeal requires that the employee under threat must specify a colleague who should be retrenched in his or her place, someone who is in excess to needs. All of my colleagues who have spoken on this debate have pointed out and described very effectively the injustice of that particular proposal. I merely say that 1 endorse their remarks. 
If an appeal succeeds and a scapegoat is found, that scapegoat is then retrenched without right of appeal. This is totally injust The Minister has declared that the employee who is identified as excess by a colleague in an appeal shall have no right of appeal, otherwise there would be too many appeals. So it is quite clear from the Minister's comments that the appeals procedure introduced in this Bill is mere window-dressing and will not inhibit the Government to any serious extent in its determination to rid itself of or to offload public servants it does not want to employ any more. Nowhere is there provision for an appeal against the original decision that there is an excess of staff. So in order to retain one's job, one must challenge a work mate's position. In addition, anyone who appeals against redeployment is in danger of retrenchment, simply as a result of appealing. Clause 1 4 of the Bill provides that the Public Service Board will issue certificates for redeployment only if the employee waives the right of appeal, the declaration is upheld, or the appeal is withdrawn. So, while the appeal is being heard, vacancies elsewhere are being filled. If the appeal is unsuccessful the appellant may be retrenched because there are no vacancies left. So people under threat are unlikely to appeal against the declaration and give up a position on the redeployment list. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to another possible outcome of the Bill which has been drawn to our attention during the course of the debate. It concerns people who will be retired because of invalidity. The present rate of pension for invalidity retirement is 70 per cent of salary, plus a refund of supplementary contributions. The Public Service Board is concerned about the existing fairly high rate of invalidity retirement on these terms. Under the Bill before us, there will be an opportunity for the Government, the Board, or the permanent head ofthe department to retire an officer on the grounds of incapacity. If the officer is retired on these grounds before he reaches 36 years he will receive no pension. If he is retired after that age he will receive up to 45 per cent of his salary at age 60. 
This is obviously a very different proposition from the present terms in relation to invalidity retirement, which provide for payment of 70 per cent of salary on retirement due to ill health. 
Whilst it is appreciated that the taxpayer should not have to support a number of people who are manipulating invalidity retirement provisions, the fact remains that there will be genuine cases of ill health. After, perhaps, 30 years service people will be retired on something like 40 per cent of salary rather than 70 per cent as provided under present terms and conditions. I would appreciate the comment of the Minister on the point that I have just raised. 
The Bill is the result of successful opposition to an earlier but very similar Bill which lapsed in 1977 because it provided for redeployment and redundancy without any right of appeal, and because it gave such wide opportunity for possible discrimination within the Public Service. The Government claims to have discussed this legislation with the Public Service Board and the relevant unions. But the legislation before us is hardly less objectionable than the first attempt. We on this side of the chamber grow tired of hearing the words 'consultation' and 'liaison'. There may have been consultation of a sort with the Public Service unions and associations, but the result of that consultation clearly is totally unacceptable to those very unions and associations. Once again I would suggest that any consultation that the Government likes to claim in this regard is simply a matter of tokenism and window-dressing. Most of the provisions in this Bill are not the result of consultation. They are the result of the Government's determination to harass certain people within the Public Service and to offload certain people in Commonwealth employment, in order to deal with its own deficit problems and so on. 
I also draw attention to the absence of any Government commitment to retrain employees who are declared excess to needs. I would suggest that this is in keeping with the Government's absolute indifference to rising unemployment. When one looks at the increasing use of technology in the Commonwealth Public Service, the motives of the Government become even clearer. In the Third Division of the Public Service 6,784 people are employed, and 57,589 people are employed in the Fourth Division. All these employees come under the provisions of the Public Service Act, and all will be affected by this legislation. Many of those people, and I would point out that the majority of them are women, will be de-skilled by new technology which the Government is introducing into the Public Service. For example, people with typing skills will be replaced by word processing equipment, as will clerical workers. 
Telephonists, technicians and allied clerical staff in Telecom, are being replaced by computerised equipment at an alarming rate. How many of these people will be redeployed when their skills are no longer required by the Government? Certainly this Government manifests absolutely no concern for their future. By putting this Bill before us in its present terms the Government reveals itself not only as devious but also as callous. The Government is determined to cut the size of the Public Service. It is prepared to spend the taxpayers' money on technological equipment, but not on employing people. In order to rid itself of the workers it has made redundant the Government wants to make a law which absolves it of any responsibility to compensate the employees it retrenches. 
As indicated, the Opposition will move that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted, in order to provide for the giving of specific reasons for termination of employment, and in order to provide for a comprehensive appeals system relating to termination of employment and redeployment. I urge the Senate to support the amendment moved by the Opposition. 

 - Mr President, in rising to oppose these Bills I foreshadow that on behalf of the Opposition I will be moving two amendments, one to each Bill. The amendments have not yet been circulated but I expect that they will be during the course of my remarks. We see in the two Bills before us changes to the health insurance system and the provision of health services that will take this country back to the 1 940s and 1 950s in terms of health care cover. That was a time when there was no universal health insurance. In attempts to hide the destruction the Government has wrought on Medibank and health insurance, its spokesmen now speak of the commitment to continue universal health protection. I suggest that confusion and costliness are all that are universal now in relation to health insurance. The Opposition opposes most of the changes in the legislation before us. 
Before I proceed to discuss our reasons for opposing them, I make it clear at this stage that we welcome and support some measures contained in the Bills. We welcome the inclusion of measures that improve travel entitlements for people seeking health services outside their own area and we approve the inclusion of benefits that improve accommodation assistance for people who have to travel to obtain health services. We also support the inclusion of the extension of eligibility for domiciliary benefits that was announced by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in his second reading speech. I point out for the benefit of honourable senators that the extension of eligibility for domiciliary benefits is a measure for which the Australian Labor Party has been arguing for a long time. We are pleased to see it included. However, these minor measures which we support and welcome form a very small part of the legislation before us. As I said, the main purpose of the Bills is to destroy universal health insurance, to force people back, into private funds and to transfer much of the burden for providing health services from the public sector to the private sector. 
The changes that we oppose are the major ones. Firstly, we oppose the abolition of the 40 per cent Commonwealth health benefit; secondly, we oppose the increases in hospital charges; and thirdly, we oppose very strongly the provision to reclassify long-term geriatric patients in hospitals as nursing home patients. We oppose the changes on several grounds. We oppose them on the ground of the cost that will be inflicted on individuals and families, particularly on low income earners such as the elderly and unemployed. We oppose the changes on the ground of the inefficiencies inherent in them and on the ground that they lack real incentive to economise health resources and costs. We also believe that the changes may not in fact substantially reduce Commonwealth expenditure on health services despite this being the alleged basis for the Government's actions. 
On looking at the amendments being made to the Health Insurance Act to abolish the 40 per cent Commonwealth medical benefit- which was, incidentally, the universal benefit glowingly described in the last round of Medibank changes- it is necessary to state that withdrawal of this benefit will push the cost of private medical insurance up by more than 40 per cent. As many people will find it too expensive to continue insuring themselves and their families, they will take risks in the hope that they will stay healthy and will not need insurance. That will leave the less healthy, privately insured persons subsequently paying higher health insurance premiums. Medical and hospital insurance contributions could rise by up to $3 or $4 a week. That is the prediction of the Government. I believe that the rise will be even greater. The Government has been wrong in all of its other estimates of contribution increases and we believe that it will be wrong in this one too. Families will face payments of up to $ 1 2 to $ 1 3 a week in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, and only slightly less in other States. This is only the first rise. Doctors' fees will be increased later in the year- up to 15 per cent has been predicted- and medical contributions will have to rise again as a result. 
Many people will find that they just cannot afford to pay this much a week for health insurance. Of course, the people who find themselves in this position will be those who are already struggling on low incomes. The 1 979 survey by the Bureau of Statistics has already shown that the highest proportion of medically uninsured people are low income earners. I understand that prior to the introduction of these changes 20 per cent of the population was uninsured. This preponderance of low income earners amongst the uninsured is a fact that has been recognised by most commentators on the legislation before us. As the  Sydney Morning Herald  has pointed out: 
The real hardship will be felt by those who are neither pensioner nor  clased  by their doctor as 'socially disadvantaged ' but are on low incomes. 
The people who are forced, through cost, to drop private health insurance will have to think twice about seeing a doctor when ill. I quote again from the  Sydney Morning Herald: 
It is desirable to discourage unnecessary and frivolous calls on doctors. The new system should have that effect. The risk is that it will as also discourage people from seeking early treatment of complaints which may prove to be serious illnesses. 
I might add that they would be costly illnesses. A trip to the doctor is cheaper on the public purse than long-term hospitalisation or expensive surgery. I allege that the effect of the abolition of insurance cover for primary health care will be to increase the overall cost to the taxpayer of the provision of health services. Of course, there is the ludicrous situation, which has already been exposed in the Press and I think, in the other place, that it will be cheaper for an individual to have a lung removed than to have a lung infection treated. What sort of health reimbursement system do we have if it leads to that situation? Undoubtedly, the number of surgical operations carried out will increase because there is cover for them. The number of primary health care or preventive health care visits to general practitioners will decrease. It is a totally unbalanced and ludicrous scheme. 
Government members and senators have argued that the socially disadvantaged category will be extended by doctors to people who cannot afford either to be insured or to pay the full cost. That may or may not happen. Let us examine the possibility put forward by Government spokesmen that it will happen. It is argued that if more people drop out of health insurance because of its cost the doctors at the primary care level will be faced with the prospect of seeing fewer patients or, alternatively, more people who will ask to be put in the socially disadvantaged category. Even if the patient does not ask to be put in the socially disadvantaged category, a doctor may decide to award it in order to retain the patient and be paid for the treatment. After all, 75 per cent of the scheduled fee, whilst not 100 per cent, is better than no fee at all. The point is that this 75 per cent will be met entirely by the Government, with no patient or fund contributions. So, if there is a big increase in the number of claims under the socially disadvantaged category, it will be the public purse that will bear the cost, and the funds will make no contribution at all. 
Can the Minister assure honourable senators that arbitrary figures will not be set on the number of disadvantaged patients that doctors may see and treat? As usual,  Senator Walters  is finding difficulty in following the point. The point is that if doctors, as suggested by Government senators, decide to increase the number of people they treat as disadvantaged there will be an increase in the charge to the public purse. On the other hand, the Government argues that it wants to reduce the charge to the public purse. If doctors do increase the number of people they bulk bill will we find, after a few months, guidelines or restrictions being placed on the number of patients a doctor may categorise as disadvantaged? Can the Minister assure honourable senators that checks will not be made on the financial circumstances of persons defined by their doctors as socially disadvantaged? Can the Minister assure honourable senators that guidelines will not be introduced further to define, refine or restrict the persons who may be classified as socially disadvantaged? Finally, what amount of money is to be set aside for this category of persons and what is the estimated number of medical visits per head per year for this category of persons? I hope to get an answer to those questions during the course of this debate. 
In seeking to understand the present operation of the disadvantaged category and the bulk billing, I discovered that 3 per cent of all claims up to the present have been under the category of socially disadvantaged- that is, about 200,000 people per month. When I sought to find out how this figure measured up with what the Government's expectation had been, I discovered that the Government has available to it no data at all on which to predict the use by the socially disadvantaged category and the Government has no way of knowing whether that 3 per cent of patients categorised as socially disadvantaged is too many or too few, whether people are missing out or whether people are abusing the system. There is absolutely no data. 
This is just another ad hoc measure of the Government. It is a bit of window dressing that is designed to defuse some of the hostility expressed by the community to this measure by enabling the Government to say: 'We are introducing this to cover low income earners'. The Government cannot tell us how many low income earners are being covered by this measure. Opposition senators and members, from their experience in electorates, suspect that it is much too low. We know that many people who are not categorised by their doctors as socially disadvantaged nonetheless could not afford under the previous scheme to pay the full cost of either health insurance or doctors fees. Of course, now that the 40 per cent benefit is to be removed entirely and there is to be no primary health care cover, the Opposition believes that the number must increase drastically. The fact that no proper data base was available to predict the effectiveness or otherwise of the socially disadvantaged category is just another example of the fact that the Government constantly tampers with the health insurance system for reasons of ideological prejudice that have nothing to do with the efficient or proper provision of health services or health insurance cover. 
One thing of which honourable senators can be sure as a result of these most recent changes is that there will be massive confusion throughout the community as, yet again, people have to decide what level of health insurance they can afford or need. It is to be hoped the usual period of grace will be extended to enable them to take the necessary steps with a health fund if their decision is to take private insurance. Fund contributions will be wasted yet again on pamphlets explaining the changes and listing new rates. Of course, these changes will have to be printed for 1 September and then reprinted when the doctors fees are increased shortly afterwards. That is just a further example of the waste and inefficiency that flows from all these destructive changes to the health insurance system. This exercise demonstrates yet another broken promise. The  President  of the Victorian Health Benefits Council,  Mr Derek  Shaw, was reported in the  Age  as saying: 
The Government has broken an undertaking we have reached with the Minister for Health that we were to make the necessary rate adjustments just once a year, from November 1. 
Now they will have to make that adjustment twice. Undoubtedly the health insurance choices will be accompanied by a variety of information which will confuse and mislead many. For example the  National Times  has already given its readers the message, which is that they should drop health insurance. Whilst this message is in line with the overall concern of the  National Times  for minimising taxation so that consumers will have more money to spend on wine and travel, people could miscalculate their health needs and expenses, to their financial detriment. It is the Government's version of Russian roulette, except that people's health is at stake. In one sense it would be a relief if we could be assured that these latest changes mark the end of the health insurance revisions, to use a Government euphemism, but it appears that the continual changes of direction that create more confusion, cost, insecurity and probably sickness are to be a permanent feature of the administration of health services under Fraser and Hunt. Already, one noted expert on health costsProfessor George Palmer from the School of Health Administration of the University of New South Wales- has forecast that the Commonwealth may next decide to re-impose a means test on admission to hospital public wards to stem a likely increase in demand for free public hospital treatment. I agree with this gloomy prediction, for it has already been foreshadowed in the report about rationalisation of hospital facilities and services and proposed new charges which was tabled recently. Paragraph 36 of the report states: 
. there may be grounds Tor seeking the agreement of States to introduce charges for hospital patients who can afford private insurance ... It would be equitable for higher income earners to be charged and such charges could counteract incentives to drop insurance. 
This would place health insurance in Australia right back to the early 1950s when another Liberal-Country Party government with a Country Party Minister for Health did precisely that. By withholding Commonwealth funds for hospitals, it forced States to re-impose means tests for free hospital treatment. The amount of money withheld was equivalent to the revenue forgone by not charging fees. All States except Queensland capitulated, and Queensland was financially penalised until the original Medibank hospital cost sharing arrangement was initiated in 1975. Another area where means testing may have to be re-introduced to cut or forestall rising costs is in public outpatient treatment. These services have been traditionally used as primary health care by low income earners, even though it is an expensive and medically inappropriate way of providing primary health care. I fear that low income earners may be forced back into outpatient and casualty queues. If they are, we may well see charges for these services re-introduced. 
I ask the Minister to indicate how accurately these sorts of variables, including the possibility of increased bulk billing to which I have referred, have been costed. In addition, I would like to know the impact that rising health insurance contributions will have on the consumer price index and, from there, into the wages and social security benefit areas. I wish to comment briefly on another aspect of the health package proposed by the Government. I refer to the area of hospital expenditure and the Government's plans to cut costs in that area. This area featured most prominently in the mini-Budget speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and obviously great savings are expected in this area at the States ' expense. However, it is true, as noted by the Treasurer, that hospitals take up 60 per cent of the Commonwealth's total health services budget. Most of this expenditure is on wages and salaries of the staff required in hospitals. So any major reduction in hospital expenditure will affect hospital employment. The Treasurer made no mention of this aspect, however. He seems to regard hospital staff as expendable. 
The Treasurer and Minister for Health have fastened on to excessive numbers of hospital beds as the reason for excessive costs. It is true that Australia has a higher number of hospital beds per thousand of population than comparable countries. However, one must look at the distribution of those beds. Figures vary between States in rough correlation with population spread and many of the so-called 'excess' beds are in country areas and in inner city areas where the previous population initially warranted the beds but where now only the adjacent specialist consulting rooms serve as reason for the beds to remain. 
The sad thing about these and most of the other facts relating to hospitals and expenditure in Australia is that they are not new. Health planners have known these facts for year and there have been a multitude of reports on the subject. The Australian Labor Party asks: Why is there a need for yet another report with all the inherent expense and delay? In 1974 the Hospital and Health Services Commission- it was abolished by the Government as a measure of its commitment to health planning- produced a report entitled 'Hospitals in Australia' which gave us a wealth of statistical information gathered in cooperation with the States and with a series of concrete proposals aimed at better utilisation of existing facilities, regionalisation and rationalisation of services and a generally better use of resources. 
The present Government has ignored that report but used some of its authors, notably  Dr Sax, Dr Hennessy  and  Mr Matt  Carroll from the Department of Health to produce a report on the rationalisation of hospital facilities and services to which I referred earlier. Now it appears ready to drop this report as well and to set up a royal commission which presumably will also call on  Dr Sax, Dr Hennessy  and  Mr Carroll  and which will produce the same sort of advice. Need I remind honourable senators that royal commissions do not have a good track record for this Government? It is also amazing that a government which places so much emphasis on its good relationship with the States can simultaneously outrage New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland on the question of an inquiry into hospitals. This hostility has, it appears, been caused largely by the lack of information that the Government is prepared to give the States in relation to the inquiry's terms of reference. 
The States have every right to be worried if past government performance is any guide. The last time that the Government looked at the Commonwealth-State hospital cost-sharing agreements it discovered them to be illegal, declared them inoperative and forced the States to accept more restrictive arrangements. The report on the rationalisation of hospital facilities mentions certain cutbacks which should be made in the area of hospital expenditure over a three year period. The Government has announced that these savings must be made in one year. So again, understandably, the States are worried. But perhaps the main reason for the States not being able to obtain information on the inquiry's terms of reference is that they have not been written. The inquiry has all the hallmarks of a rushed, botched job concocted by the Treasury while the Minister and Director-General of Health were overseas. I am surprised that the Minister has agreed yet again to carry the can for another unpopular government health measure taken without his approval. 
On the radio program  AM last  week the Minister stated- I think I paraphrase him correctlythat the low income earner had to realise that he had to pay for his health costs in some way, either directly as contributions or as increased taxation. Has the Minister forgotten yet another report he commissioned- 'Paying for Health Care'- which discussed the relative equity of fiat-based contributions, as he is now proposing, versus progressively based tax payments? The new proposals in the legislation before us are not related to the capacity to pay. They are regressive and inequitable. This Government clearly favours health policies which advantage the rich and disadvantage the low and middle income earner. The Labor Party opposes this principle and will continue to press for an equitable and universal system of health care protection. This legislation does not further such aims and principles and, with the exceptions I have already stated, we do not support it. I now take the opportunity to move on behalf of the Opposition amendments to the two Bills. 
Yes. I now take the opportunity to move my amendment to the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1979 and foreshadow my amendment to the National Health Bill 1 979. I move as an amendment to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time ': 
Leave out all words after 'That ', insert the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to exclude- 
the re-classification of public hospital patients as nursing-home type patients; and 
the abolition of the 40 per cent Commonwealth medical benefit presently payable for professional services, where the specified fee is $20 or less'. 
I foreshadow that I will move at the appropriate stage the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of the National Health Amendment Bill 1979: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert: 
The Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted so that registered funds will continue to pay the current appropriate benefit to eligible contributors for the full period of their stay in hospital '. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)- Senator Ryan,  is your amendment seconded? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is he aware of the article in  B &amp; T Advertising Weekly  of 29 March 1979 in which  Mr Staley  is reported to have told the Advertising Federation of Australia on 23 March: 'The concept (of ethnic television) will be partially, if not significantly, funded by advertising'. Can the Minister reconcile that statement with the answer given to a question which I placed on notice on 4 April 1979 which sought information on the funding of ethnic television, and to which he replied: 
The Government will not make any decisions on matters relating to the establishment of the permanent ethnic television service until it has received a report on the outcome of the present consultation process with ethnic communities and other interested parties. 
Would the Minister agree that that answer is misleading and that the Government policy outlined by the Minister in March and reiterated by  Mr Frank  Galbally,  Chairman  of the Ethnic Television Review Panel, in late May, is for a commercial service? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on5 April 1979: 
1 ) What consultations have taken place with Aboriginal communities on their broadcasting needs. 
) How much money has been allocated during the financial year 1 978-79 for the training of Aboriginal broadcasters and for the purchase of equipment. 
Will Aboriginal communities be granted low powered public broadcasting licences, or will broadcasting to Aboriginal communities become the responsibility of the Special Broadcasting Service. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Will the Minister confirm the report in the  National Times  for the week ending 25 August that a departmental minute circulated in the Postal and Telecommunications Department suggested that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's decision on the acquisition of Channel 10 Sydney by News Ltd would not withstand legal challenge? Was the substance of that minute that the unconditional acquisition by News Ltd of shares in Channel 10 Sydney from Email Ltd and Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd without prior approval of the Tribunal contravened sections 92f(5) and 92f(6) of the Broadcasting and Television Act? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May 1979. 
1 ) What works of art have been purchased by the Australian National Gallery since 1 January 1975. 
What works of art have been donated to the Australian National Gallery since 1 January 1975, and by whom were they donated. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) Did a senior public servant from the Prime Minister's Department help to prepare the TCN9 application to the Broadcasting Tribunal for a television licence renewal. 
What guidelines have been laid down by the Government relating to the participation by public servants in private enterprise when dealing with issues that are public and controversial. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
Has the Government endorsed an acquisition policy and statement of principles for the purchase by the Australian National Gallery of new works of art; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
What were the dates of the Prime Minister's electorate talks which were translated by the Translation Section of the Citizenship Branch, of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
What was the full cost to the public of the Prime Minister's trip to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development ( UNCTAD) held in Manila during May 1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) Will the Minister explain how the defence forces have arrived at the conclusion that female trainee technicians have a lower retention rate than males in view of answers given to Senate Questions Nos. 782 and 1331 (see  Hansard,  8 November 1 978, p. 1 8 1 3 and 3 May 1 979, p. 1 644). 
Is it possible to establish the viability of employing women as trainee technicians in the defence forces when last year there were only 7 women employed compared with 4381 men. 
Why has the number of women employed as trainee technicians in the defence forces fallen from 19 in I97S to 7 in 1978, while the number of men has increased from 3S98 to 438 1 during the same period. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
I ) Has the decision to use the international satellite, Intelsat, for Australian Broadcasting Commission television program distribution in Western Australia prejudiced the planned development of the broadband terrestrial network through Broome, Derby and Wyndham in Western Australia. 
What arrangements will be made, and at what cost, to bring telecommunication services other than television to this region of Western Australia if the planned network development is abandoned. 
I direct to the Leader of the  Government in the Senate a question which arises from material broadcast on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  Broadband  last night. Is the Minister aware of allegations arising from that program that the recently suspended  president  of the New South Wales Liberal Ethnic Council, Lyenko Urbanchich, is a former Nazi collaborator, is on the Yugoslav list of wanted war criminals and currently argues in favour of a White Australia policy? Can the Minister say whether  Mr Urbanchich  has been a member of any Federal government committee or has participated in any way in the formulation of government immigration policy? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and refers to matters discussed in the Senate after Question Time yesterday. The incorporation in  Hansard  of documents on which Monday night's Australian Broadcasting Commission  Broadband  program concerning Lyenko Urbanchich was based, although volunteered by the Leader of the Government on Tuesday, was refused by the Government yesterday, mainly on the grounds that the authenticity of the documents could not be established at that stage and that there were questions as to the accuracy of the translation. 
I ask the Minister: What steps will he take to establish the authenticity of the documents and to secure an official translation of them so that they may be tabled in the Senate and incorporated in  Hansard,  as was the Minister's original intention? Further, although I specifically asked in advance that a transcript of the  Broadband  program be made by the Parliamentary Library, such a transcript has not been made. The Minister said in his answer to me on Tuesday that he had a copy of a transcript and a tape of the broadcast. Will he make that copy of a transcript- of course, it is material which has already been published- available to the Senate? 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate on Tuesday, in answer to a question by me in regard to the  Broadband  program, used these words: 
I did not hear the  Broadband  broadcast last night but I have a copy of the transcript. I have a tape . . . 
The Minister has now denied that he had this tape. I ask him why he is persisting in denying to the Senate a copy of the transcript. I would also say, in clarification of the issue, that I do not have a transcript of that program. That is what I am seeking. 
by leave- I wish to make a personal explanation. During Question Time this morning the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  implied- perhaps stated, but certainly implied- that I had been somehow negligent in not seeking to obtain in advance from the Parliamentary Library a transcript of the  Broadband  program, which transcript of course would fulfil the requirements of objectivity, and so forth, that we all desire. I simply state for the record that I did seek in advance to arrange that the Parliamentary Library should make such a transcript and have it available for the Senate. I made that arrangement with the Parliamentary Library on Monday. On Tuesday, when I sought a copy of the transcript which I had ordered, my office was told by the Parliamentary Library that it had been unable to make a complete transcript because of staff shortages, that it would be able to provide a transcript of part only of the program. Consequently, I have sought from  Senator Carrick  other ways of providing a full objective transcript of the program as it was broadcast. 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The collapse of the credibility of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and the television licence transfer provisions of the  Broadcasting and Television Act  1942 as a result of the decisions by the Tribunal in the Channel 10 Sydney and Channel 4 Wollongong matters. 
I raise this matter today because I think there can be no dispute that the administration of television and radio licences in this country is a matter of public importance. I think I will establish during the course of this debate, with the assistance of my colleague  Senator Evans,  that it is a matter of urgency that the credibility of the body charged by the Government with the task of administering the allocation of broadcasting licences in this country has collapsed totally. There is no doubt that the ownership of television licences in this country is a matter of public importance. The public is dependent upon television in particular for news, information and entertainment. I would point out also that the consuming public pays for the television services it receives from commercial television through the price of the consumer goods which are advertised on television. 
I would also point out that it has been the stated policy of the Fraser Government that the Tribunal ought to be able to administer broadcasting in the public interest and with public accountability. I offer a couple of brief quotations from the second reading speech made by the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on the occasion of the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill 1 977.I regarded it as a statement of Government policy in these matters when he said: 
It was considered desirable to provide appropriate machinery which would ensure adequate accountability by licencees for station performance. 
Further, the Minister said: 
The Government has not been reluctant to institute procedures to enable the fullest public and industry involvement. The activities of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal will, as far as possible, be conducted in public and the public will have substantial access to the inquiry and deliberative activities of the Tribunal. 
He further stated: 
The Tribunal must be able to justify publicly its deliberative and decision-making activities and in a similar manner, broadcasters will be made to account, at renewal hearings, and in public, for their programming performances. 
That is the policy of the Government with regard to the Broadcasting Tribunal. I maintain that this policy is not being implemented. The other matters of concern are that the Tribunal has cost the taxpayer, to this stage, $6.5m. The taxpayer is entitled to ask what it has received out of the Tribunal for this $6. 5m which has been spent on it. It seems to me and to the Opposition generally that the Broadcasting and Television Act, which the Tribunal has to administer, is parlous. Either it is a law which is not being implemented because of the incompetence of the Tribunal, or it is a law that is inadequate in its present form for the implementation of Government policy, in which case there is a clear onus on the Government to proceed to amend it completely. 
I have couched my motion in terms of the credibility of the Tribunal. There is no doubt that the Tribunal has suffered from credibility problems from its very inception. I will not recount at this stage the various episodes involving the 
Chairman of the Tribunal which have from time to time called into doubt the credibility of the Tribunal. I would simply say that whatever remaining credibility the Tribunal had at the outset of the inquiries into the Channel 10 take-over and the Channel 4 in Wollongong take-over has been destroyed by the conduct of each of those inquiries and by the consequent decisions in the case of each of those inquiries. In each case the hearings were marked by confusion, internal contradictions and sheer incompetence. Let us take the case of the take-over of the Channel 4 television station in Wollongong. The tribunal has not yet stated its reasons for approving the take-over, even though it has a statutory obligation and requirement to explain its reasons to the public. That is Government policy. 
I am referring to the Channel 4 hearings in Wollongong. 
Not the reasons. 
The main significance of the transfer of the Channel 4 station in Wollongong, which was transferred from  Mr Rupert  Murdoch to a company called Oberon Broadcasters Pty Ltd, was that it was necessary to enable  Mr Murdoch  to be eligible to take over the Channel 10 licence in Sydney. The charge I am making with regard to the Channel 4 takeover is that the Tribunal reached its decision with improper haste and that the decision it did reach destroyed its remaining credibility. What was wrong with the Channel 4 decision? As I have said, Channel 4 was owned by Rupert Murdoch. The application for the takeover of Channel 4 from  Mr Murdoch  was made by Oberon Broadcasters Pty Ltd. It has been the established procedure of the Tribunal to look behind the corporate facade of companies engaged in share transactions and to identify the majority shareholders. This practice is necessitated by the residence requirements of the Broadcasting and Television Act and, indeed, by requirements of the Foreign Takeovers Amendment Act1976. 
Honourable senators may now ask who is the principal shareholder of Oberon Broadcasters, now the holder of the Channel 4 licence at Wollongong. There is no satisfactory answer to that question. Control of the purchasing company, Oberon Broadcasters, changed hands at least once and possibly twice during the course of the Tribunal's inquiry. At the outset a  Mr 
Gordon, an employee of Paramount Pictures living in New York, was presented as the major shareholder. During the course of the inquiry it was revealed that, in fact, it was  Mr Gordon's  wife who was the majority shareholder. The Tribunal's approval for the transfer to Oberon Broadcasters was made conditionally on  Mr Gordon  becoming the major shareholder. At least, that was stated during the course of the inquiry. In fact, this has not happened.  Mr Gordon  has not become the major shareholder of Oberon Broadcasters. Who has? It now appears that Oberon Broadcasters is controlled by two Sydney accountants,  Mr Crowley  and  Mr Alagich.  I point out that  Mr Crowley  and  Mr Alagich  also act as accountants for  Mr Gordon,  of Paramount Pictures, New York, and for  Mr Gyngell,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal who, on his own admission, has also had a long business association with the same  Mr Gordon  of Paramount Pictures.Apparently  Mr Gordon,  who did not satisfy the requirements of the Broadcasting and Television Act to become the licensee of Channel 4 at the time of the inquiry, will take over Channel 4 when it suits him- when he leaves Paramount Pictures. 
My charge- I hope the Minister at the table  (Senator Chaney)  will respond to it- is that the trust arrangement by which  Mr Gordon  has transferred ownership and control of Oberon Broadcasters and thus of Channel 4 to a wholly owned discretionary trust controlled by Crowley and Alagich was a successful attempt to circumvent the spirit and objectives of the Broadcasting and Television Act. What a cosy set-up.  Mr Gyngell, Chairman  of the Broadcasting Tribunal, can reasonably be accused, as so often before, of a conflict of interest in this matter. Despite the numerous unsatisfactory aspects of the WIN4 hearing, the Tribunal facilitated  Mr Murdoch's  desire to divest himself of Channel 4 so that the Tribunal's decision to grant  Mr Murdoch  the Channel 10 licence would appear to be technically valid. The Tribunal lays down conditions for the transfer of the licence but then ignores the fact that its conditions have not been met and permits the transfer to take place anyway. 
I raise this matter in the Senate today because, as I said at the outset, it is a matter of public interest. How can the public believe in the propriety of the Channel 4 decision? How can  Mr Gyngell  and the Tribunal maintain the public credibility that a quasi-judicial tribunal must have? How can the public believe that the Government is seriously attempting to pursue a policy of public accountability by licensees when we do not even know now who the licensee of Channel 4 really is? I have stated publicly in the media and I state again because of all these unsatisfactory aspects that the inquiry into the WIN4 takeover ought to be reopened. 
A shadow is cast by the WIN4 decision on the Channel 10 takeover. Technically, of course, the Channel 10 takeover by  Mr Murdoch  and the Channel 4 takeover from  Mr Murdoch  by  Mr Gyngell's  accountants, Crowley and Alagich, are matters requiring separate investigations by the Tribunal. However, because the success of one, that is, the Channel 10 takeover, was a necessary condition for the success of the other, that is, the Channel 10 takeover, the unsatisfactory aspects of the Channel 4 decision cast a shadow, I suggest, over the Channel 10 decision. Of course, there are many other shadows clouding this decision. The terms in which the Tribunal announced its decision were virtually an admission of impotence by the Tribunal. I will quote briefly from the reasons given by the Tribunal in regard to the Channel 10 takeover. It said: 
In considering the public interest point, therefore, the Tribunal has to have regard to the fact that if the transaction in question is not approved the ultimate fate of the subject shareholdings is something about which the Tribunal can, at this stage, know nothing whatsoever. The Tribunal finds this state of affairs a matter of considerable concern, and would question whether it really accords with Parliament's broad intentions on the matter. 
Clearly the Tribunal feels itself impotent to act in this matter. In April the Channel 10 licence was renewed for the then holder, United Telecasters Sydney Ltd, because it was the only television broadcaster in the capital cities of Australia that was independent of other media interests. I would point out that the Channel 10 licence was originally granted in 1964 on the same grounds. The Tribunal admits this in its judgment. I will read from it again. It said: 
It should be noted, in considering this contention that, at the present time- 
That is, before the Murdoch takeover- 
Channel 10 is the only station in the Sydney metropolitan area that is not controlled by a newspaper or publishing organisation. It is clear from the records of the former Australian Broadcasting Control Board of the public inquiry into the grant of the licence for Channel 10 that an important consideration in the initial grant of the licence to United Telecasters Sydney Ltd was the fact that the licensee would not be controlled by any newspaper or publishing interest and additionally would not be controlled by any other broadcasting or television interests. 
The Tribunal renewed the Channel 10 licence in April on those grounds and then, a couple of months later, permitted a takeover of that licence by a multi-media proprietor, whilst expressing in the same judgment concern about the concentration of media ownership. I suggest that this is a farce. It is a farce that has cost the Australian taxpayer $6.5m. The Tribunal also said in the same judgment that it could not consider the matter of concentration of media ownership. If the Tribunal does have the power to consider the matter of concentration of ownership- I point out that it did so in the recent decision regarding radio station 2HD and it did so in the decision regarding Telecasters North Queensland Ltd in Townsville in July 1977- it ought to do so without requiring specific directions from the Government. If it does not have the power, as it says it does not in the Channel 10 decision, to consider the question of concentration of ownership the Government ought to proceed forthwith to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act and establish such power. 
In the time left to me I want to draw the attention of the Senate to some other major problems in the Channel 10 decision. Firstly, there is the matter of an unanswered question by me to the Minister regarding the fact that an unconditional purchase of shares was made by  Mr Murdoch  before the Tribunal investigated the propriety of that transaction. I asked that question because it appears that a serious breach of the Broadcasting and Television Act may have occurred and, if it did occur that it has been condoned by the Tribunal. The breach concerned section 92F of the Broadcasting and Television Act, which states that a person who becomes a party to a transaction without the approval of the Tribunal having been given to the transaction is guilty of an offence against this section. 
On his own admission to the Tribunal,  Mr Murdoch  established that once he knew there was to be a public inquiry on the takeover he bought the relevant shares outright. He then presented the Tribunal with a fait accompli. So the Tribunal was being asked to approve a transfer which had already taken place; that is, to act as a rubber stamp. I suggest that this aspect of the Channel 10 decision by the Tribunal would not stand up to legal challenge. If it would stand up to legal challenge, if it is beyond legal challenge, what are the implications? The implications clearly are that any individual or group seeking to take over a licence merely has to acquire shares unconditionally and present the Tribunal with a fait accompli. In that situation an inquiry into the share transaction is pointless. The Broadcasting and Television Act requires such an inquiry, so the Act appears to be inoperable. 
The Tribunal in its Channel 10 decision described a further inadequacy in the Act in the allimportant matter of ascertaining public interest. It said that once the shares have changed hands it cannot consider what the public interest would have been prior to the shares being transferred. In other words, the Tribunal does not seem to know whether the public interest is judged in terms of the current holders of the licence or in terms of what will happen once the takeover occurs, and that is another inadequacy to which the Tribunal has drawn attention. Further, a public allegation has been made that improper influence was exerted on the Attorney-General's Department and, as a result, by the AttorneyGeneral's Department on  Mr Gyngell  to dissuade him from refusing the Murdoch takeover. 
In summary, the credibility of the Tribunal has collapsed during the Channel 10 and Channel 4 hearings. In the case of Channel 10, the Tribunal failed to define a workable concept of public interest and announced its impotence to deal with the effects of concentration of ownership, in clear contradiction to its earlier decisions. It exposed its own inquiry into the share transactions as a farce and permitted a licence, originally granted and recently renewed on the grounds of its independence from other media holdings, to be acquired by one of the largest multi-media proprietors in Australia, probably one of the largest in the world. The WIN4 decision was shoddily conducted and the resulting decision, confused as it is, contravenes the objectives of the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
I put it to the Government that its Minister is responsible for the administration of the Act. The Government has set up the Tribunal, claiming that by so doing it will provide public accountability and serve the public interest, that it will avoid takeovers and share transactions which contravene the spirit of the Act. Yet none of its stated objectives has been achieved in the case of the Channel 4 and Channel 10 decisions. In conclusion, I ask the Minister what steps the Government intends to take either to give us a competent Tribunal to implement the Government's policy or to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act so that its stated policy in regard to the administration of broadcasting and ownership of broadcasting licences in this country can be properly implemented, thus bringing an end to the farce of these unnecessary and impotent inquiries which are being conducted by the Tribunal and an end to the waste of taxpayers money if the Tribunal is not doing a good job. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and refer to his answer to my question on notice of 5 April concerning Aboriginal broadcasting. Has the survey on needs and training of Aboriginal broadcasters been completed and will the survey be made public? What steps have been taken by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Postal and Telecommunications Department to facilitate the issue of C class licences to the Aboriginal communities at Bathurst Island and Milingimbi? Will the Minister agree that the granting of public broadcasting licences is the appropriate way to meet the broadcasting needs of such Aboriginal communities? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) Which radio and television stations in New South Wales broadcast or televised the policy speech of the Leader of the Liberal Party in New South Wales on the evening of Thursday, 2 1 September 1978. 
Which radio and television stations in New South Wales broadcast or televised news and/or current affairs coverage of the policy speech of the Leader of the Liberal Party of New South Wales, during the period between the speech's delivery and 8.00 p.m. on Saturday, 23 September 1978. 
Which, if any, of the above stations were granted an exemption under section 1 16 (4a) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in respect of the broadcasting or televising of material referred to in parts ( 1 ) and (2 ) above. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
Did a departmental minute circulated in the Department of Post and Telecommunications suggest that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal 's decision on the acquisition of Channel Ten, Sydney by News Limited would not withstand a legal challenge, as reported in the  National Times  for the week ending 25 August 1979; if so, was the substance of that minute that News Limited 's unconditional acquisition and Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, without prior approval of the Tribunal, contravened sections 95F (5) and 92F (6 ) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 1 52 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Government has not sought to increase radio licence fees for Citizens Band radio users it has recently raised licence fees on marine two way radios and marine base stations. 
Your humble petitioners believe that by increasing these licence fees the Government has: discouraged the use of this vital safety device from being fitted to all marine craft; placed an additional burden on organisations such as the Volunteer Coastal Patrol who volunteer their services free of charge to help save lives and who rely extensively on marine two way radios and base stations; added greatly to the costs associated with enforcing these licence fees; and placed revenue collection ahead of the lives of users of marine craft. 
Your petitioners humbly pray, that the members of Parliament assembled will take steps to reverse the licence fees to a more modest or nominal fee in keeping with safety equipment that does and can continue to save many lives and at the same time save the Government thousands of dollars on air and sea search and rescue operations. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications what response the Government intends to make to the invitation issued by  Mr Bruce  Gyngell, the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, to direct the Tribunal to conduct an inquiry into the problem of concentration of ownership in the media. I remind the Minister of the words of  Mr Gyngell  when he made public his decision on the Channel 10 takeover. He said: 
The Tribunal readily agrees that the general question of the aggregation or concentration of media ownership and control is a matter of great public interest and deserving of serious examination. In so far as it relates to broadcasting and television, the question could be an appropriate subject for a special public inquiry by the Tribunal under Section 1 8 of the Act. It would be open to the Minister to direct the Tribunal to hold such an inquiry and to make recommendations to him on the matter. 
I ask: What is the response of the Minister to this invitation on such an urgent matter? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I welcome the appearance of this review of the Australia Council's activities. It seems to me and to the Opposition that the Australia Council has established a very useful precedent by bringing before the Parliament prompt reviews of its activities during the previous financial year. As the review points out, the Australia Council has difficulty in presenting annual reports in the period immediately following the financial year because of the complicated procedures involved in accounting for individual grants and things of that kind. There have now been two reviews of this kind whereby the Australia Council has brought before the Parliament an up-to-date survey of its funding and other activities. This is most welcome. 
The review presents the Parliament with a thorough account of the Australia Council's various activities during the last financial year, but from that thorough account it is very easy to deduce that the question of arts funding in Australia has become a very urgent one. It is quite clear that successive Fraser governments have not allocated adequate funds to the Australia Council for its very important work of promoting the performing and creative arts in Australia. If one compares the current allocation for the Australia Council with the last allocation by a Labor government, one will see that the Council has slipped down by 37 per cent in the funds that it secures from this source. In no way has the Australia Council been enabled to keep pace with inflation, which to a great extent has eroded the ability of the Council to carry out its important statutory obligations. 
I draw to the attention of the Senate the very significant effect of inflation on the activities in which the Australia Council is involved. Arts activities are labour intensive, and therefore the effect of wage rises on the budget of the Australia Council has been very serious. As well as the labour intensive aspect of the Australia Council, which causes such a serious inflationary effect, many arts activities are now required to tour throughout Australia. That is a most desirable situation and one that the Australian Labor Party has always favoured. Because these activities have to tour over the vast distances of Australian provincial and outback areas, the rises in the price of petrol have also constituted a serious erosion of the budget available for arts activities in Australia. With the combination of wage increases in a labour intensive industry and petrol increases for activities which are engaged in constant touring over vast distances, the effect of inflation on arts activities in Australia has been very serious. It is in the light of this situation that the Government's failure even to index arts funding is a serious inadequacy. 
I also point out that the review has drawn attention to the way in which a great deal of talent in Australia is going unassisted by the Australia Council because of inadequate funds. The review points out that awards for individual artists, writers and so forth may fall short of the number of qualified applicants. I suggest that that is a serious matter. I believe we are losing the potential talents of many creative people throughout Australia because an adequate amount of money is not available to make individual grants to assist these artists. Some artists who are unsuccessful in getting a grant will, of course, be able to continue their creative activity. They may have jobs or they may find some other source of support. However, it is undoubtedly the case that many artists, particularly young artists, who are unable to secure a grant are unable to continue their creative activity. So, a loss to the whole of Australia's society and to our national culture is represented by these people 's being unable to continue. 
It is also important to remind ourselves that the burgeoning Australian film and television industry of which Australia has so much cause to be proud is dependent in many ways on an adequate funding of arts activities throughout Australia. People who end up directing Australian films, scriptwriting for them, acting in them or are engaged in other ways in making films or films for television, in many cases have been assisted in the early stages by Australia Council activities. If we are to continue to have a thriving film industry and if we are to continue to develop our capacity to make films which are successful on the home market and also have a great possibility of success on international markets, we must not cut off funding at the base level. 
It seems to me from a study of the review of the Australia Council that the ability of the Council to provide that ongoing assistance and encouragement to artists on whom ultimately the film and television industry depends has been seriously eroded. There have been new and extensive demands on one board in particular of the Australia Council. I refer to the Community Arts Boards, one of the newest boards of the Council. The Board's activities probably reach more Australians than any other arts activities. I think it is the case now that in every Federal electorate in Australia there has been some activity by the Community Arts Board. It is often activity which involves children or people who have previously had very little contact with the arts. It is a most important developmental program. I think it is unfortunate- I must comment- that the Community Arts Board at this stage secures only 6 per cent of the Australia Council 's budget. 
I point out too that the Community Arts Board has responded to a newly recognised need in this area in Australia, and that is the assistance of ethnic groups which are engaged in arts activities. There are now over 400 ethnic groups concerned with the arts in Australia, and many of these are receiving assistance from the Community Arts Board. Clearly the demand is much greater than can be supplied by the allocation of 6 per cent of the Australia Council's budget. I hope that the Government takes note of this aspect. With the interest it claims it has in ethnic affairs, in promoting the identity of ethnic communities and in the ability of ethnic communities to retain their homeland culture in Australia, I suggest a more generous allocation would be in order in the next Budget. 
The review again draws our attention to the problem of staff ceilings. I repeat the criticism I have made on many occasions of the strategy of using an across the board staff ceiling formula to reduce expenditure in the public sector. In areas where a great deal of flexibility and creativity is required, an across the board staff ceiling formula is not a way of inducing efficiency; it is a way of inducing inefficiency, although the review does state that to date the Council has been able to improve many of its procedures to maximise the effect of its staff allocation. I welcome too the emphasis on assessment and valuation procedures which the Australia Council describes. It is most important I think that bodies engaged in this sort of creative activity have some idea of where they are going and have a fairly clear idea of what has been achieved by previous programs. I think it is true to say that in the past there was neglect of internal evaluation procedures and of the effectiveness of various Council art programs. 
I welcome the new emphasis on assessment and valuation procedures within the Council itself. In the same vein I welcome the various research projects in which the Australia Council has engaged. It is most important if we are to have a rational and appropriate national arts policy in this country that we actually know the needs and tastes of the Australian public. Until recently we have had very little sound indication of what the wider community wants and expects with regard to arts programs. So, I welcome the various research projects in which the Australia Council has been involved. I look forward to the results of those research projects informing all of us in Parliament of the true needs of the Australian community with regard to arts programs. 
I comment too that although some developments in encouraging private patronage for the arts have been successful and that this is a development which the Australian Labor Party welcomes, the ongoing responsibility of a national government to provide national support for the arts in a wide ranging and adequate way is not in any way reduced by the appearance of private patronage. I state very firmly that it is the view of the Australian Labor Party that private patronage of the arts is to be encouraged in all possible ways but that it is always an extra. The ongoing work of providing assistance to community arts, ethnic arts, Aboriginal arts and of our major arts companies must be a government responsibility. Anything that private patronage likes to add to that is welcome, but I warn against the Government's regarding the development of private patronage for the arts as an excuse for withdrawal of public funding. I will not take the time of the Senate any longer at this stage. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to my question to the Minister on 30 August regarding an Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Broadband  which asserted pro-Nazi wartime activities by  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich. I ask the Minister now: What steps have been taken by him to authenticate the documents on which the program was based? Does the Minister intend to report to the Senate the findings of the inquiry into  Mr Urbanchich  by the New South Wales State executive of the Liberal Party? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
At this stage I can remark only that the Opposition welcomes the appearance of this review because in recent years there have been delays in receiving annual reports from the National Gallery. I can make no further comment because, although the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has just tabled the report on behalf of his colleague the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  and despite various efforts, I have not been able to secure a copy of the report. So, I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
Was a licence granted pursuant to sections 34c and 77 (2 ) of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1906, and under section 61 1 of the Wireless Telegraphy Act 1905, to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission to authorise transmissions of a television signal by the Commission between Moree, New South Wales, and Canberra on 2 1 and 22 February 1979. 
1 second the amendment. I support my colleague,  Senator Grimes,  who moved the amendment to the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1979. As my colleague has pointed out, the Opposition opposes the Bill in its present form because of the many inadequacies that it contains. The Senate now has before it action with regard to improving compensation payments by the Commonwealth to its injured employees, but it is action which is long overdue. Now that the Government has finally decided to act in respect of this long neglected matter, the provisions in the Bill are quite inadequate. The scope of the Bill, in terms of the people who could potentially benefit from it or be affected by it, is very wide. It concerns the compensation made by the Commonwealth Government to any person or the dependants of any person injured during his or her work for the Commonwealth Government. 
Honourable senators will be aware that the Bill is of great interest to me, representing as I do the Australian Capital Territory where approximately two-thirds of the work force are employed in one way or another by the Commonwealth Government. As  Senator Grimes  has pointed out, they have been treated very badly by comparison either to private employees in the Australian Capital Territory or employees in the States. This is a situation which has given rise to many instances of hardship in the Australian Capital Territory with which I am acquainted. The Bill does not affect only the many thousands of my constituents, it covers people in all States and Territories of Australia who work for the Commonwealth or its agencies. Who are these people? They include not only the white collar workers of the Commonwealth who, of course, are the favourite targets for abuse and attacks by the conservative coalition government and its supporters, but also the many thousandsperhaps hundreds of thousands- of blue collar workers who help to keep this country running in very practical and absolutely crucial ways. For example, there are the employees of Telecom Australia; workers who have to go out in all sorts of weather, climbing telegraph poles and engaging in all sorts of work to keep the communications system of this country going. They include people working for the Department of Housing and Construction, who are often engaged in very hard, demanding and hazardous work. They include Defence Force employeesagain, people whose work is often hazardous and often performed in an environment in which a serious injury could occur. They include women who work in the Ammunition Factory in Victoria. 
These are the people for whom the Opposition is particularly concerned because of the nature of the work that they do for the Commonwealth and for the Australian public. We recognise that in the course of their work they often endanger their ability to work and sometimes their lives. It is from amongst those blue collar workers that claims for compensation arising from work related injuries most often occur. These are the people who, in the course of their service to the Commonwealth, work in hard and hazardous jobs and often pay the price of serious personal injury, followed by temporary or permanent incapacity to work. 
How does the Fraser Government look after these people? The answer to that question is that the Government looks after them very shabbily indeed. Payments by the Government to employees who are invalided out of their work because of injury or illness are made under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act. Since the Fraser Government was first elected, it has refused to index these payments although all other government benefits have been indexed. The Opposition has raised this matter on numerous occasions. It has brought before the Parliament on several occasions examples of the poverty and hardship being experienced by former government employees because of the Government's refusal to index these payments. The Commonwealth compensation benefit has diminished in value each time the Government has failed to index it. My colleague,  Senator Grimes,  has described in detail the extent of the diminution in the value of the compensation benefit. 
Until the introduction of this Bill the situation of Commonwealth employees in the Australian Capital Territory who were forced to claim compensation was particularly disadvantageous. As was pointed out in the Senate on 20 March 1979, Commonwealth employees in the Australian Capital Territory are receiving considerably less compensation than private employees in the Australian Capital Territory. Private employees in the Australian Capital Territory receive a compensation benefit of $87.89 a week whilst Commonwealth employees who are the recipients of compensation benefits receive only $80 a week. The reason for this discrepancy is that, whilst the compensation payments to persons in private employment have been indexed, the Commonwealth has refused to index compensation payments to its employees. 
I feel that this contrast between the treatment by private employers of their injured employees and the Commonwealth's treatment of its employees is most scandalous. Let us consider the circumstances of a compensation beneficiary trying to live on $80 a week in the current situation. Of course, that amount is taxed. There is no pension fringe benefit entitlement attached to that payment. Yet by definition a person on compensation is in continual need of a doctor's services and medication. These people often experience long delays in receiving their payments and have complained on many occasions that they experience long delays with respect to rehabilitation or that in some cases they have not been offered rehabilitation at all. Their circumstances are poor. 
The Government has a very poor record in the treatment it has awarded its employees who have been invalided out of the Service. The problem the Opposition now raises is that the Bill before us does not rectify that poor record. On several occasions the Opposition has sought to rectify the situation but has never been able to gain support from Government senators. For the benefit of my constituents, I point out that although the situation of Australian Capital Territory compensation beneficiaries is so disadvantaged their case has never been supported by the Liberal senator for the Australian Capital Territory,  Senator John  Knight. On not one single occasion has he voted for improvements which the Opposition has sought to make for Commonwealth compensation beneficiaries. I believe that it is also the case that the honourable member for 
Canberra in the other place,  Mr John  Haslem, has never supported any attempt by the Opposition to improve the circumstances of Commonwealth compensation recipients in the Australian Capital Territory. It will be of great interest not only to me and my colleagues but also to the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory to see what action the Government senator for the Australian Capital Territory is prepared to take with respect to the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Grimes.  We have moved the amendment in the form outlined by  Senator Grimes  because of the total inadequacy of the provisions in the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill. To remind the Senate of those inadequacies, I will quote in summary form from a submission made by the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations in response to the Bill before us. It points out: 
Firstly, the Bill falls far short ofthe level of benefits which injured Australian Government employees and defence personnel are entitled to expect. Although the CP1 has increased by 36.S per cent and the minimum wage by 29 per cent since the last Cabinet approval of increases in May 1976, the increases in this Bill only raise the long term weekly rate for an employee by 12.5 per cent, for his spouse by 1 1 per cent and his children by 12.5 per cent Death benefit only rises  by  12 percent from $25,000 to $28,000. 
This is an increase which the Opposition believes is niggardly and no way for the Government to treat dependants of its employees and members of Defence Force. After the Victorian workers compensation legislation is changed this year, the Commonwealth legislation will be the only Act which does not provide for any indexation of compensation benefit. We regard that situation as most unjust, particularly in view of the time lags which occur in introducing legislation to update benefits. 
The Opposition endorses the CAGEO criticism of this legislation. On the basis of those criticisms and our general dissatisfaction with the Bills we have moved an amendment accordingly. I urge the Government at this stage to revise its decision with regard to this particularly disadvantaged group of its employees- the people living in hardship and poverty because of workinduced illness or injury- and give them what is I think in the view of any fair-minded person their just entitlement, that is, indexation of their benefit, which would entitle them at least to maintain parity with other government beneficiaries. I take great pleasure in supporting the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Grimes. 

 Senator GRIMES (Tasmania)- by leave- In looking at the circulated copy of the amendment to the motion that the Bills be read a second time, I notice that between the words 'twiceyearly' and 'payments' two words 'indexation of have been left out. I should like to have those words placed in the circulated copies of the Opposition 's amendment. 
Is the Attorney-General aware of the serious injustices being suffered by citizens of the Australian Capital Territory because of the failure of the Government to appoint an additional Supreme Court judge? In particular, is he aware that on 6 August this year there were 60 criminal cases awaiting trial, that there was a backlog of up to 12 months for criminal cases and that serious hardship was being imposed on people awaiting resolution of civil cases? When will the Government appoint another judge to the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
Which women have been appointed by the Executive Council to: (a) judicial; (b) diplomatic; and (c) statutory, positions during the terms of the: (i) McMahon; (ii) Whitlam; and (iii) Fraser, Governments. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to a statement released today by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs concerning the ethnic television service which says, amongst other things, that the Government commits itself to a continuation of the present Special Broadcasting Service experimental service broadcast over the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I ask the Minister: How can the Government justify its intended continuation of the service in the light of the serious criticisms of the service by the Ethnic Television Review Panel which concluded that the service had been a complete failure and had not provided any useful information about the wishes or needs of ethnic communities in relation to ethnic television? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I must express the extreme disappointment of the Opposition and particularly of myself, as a senator for the Australian Capital Territory, with the contents of the statement which the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  has just made. The report by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on planning procedures for the Australian Capital Territory is of utmost importance to the Territory. As is well known to the Senate, the Australian Capital Territory has been experiencing great difficulties in recent yearsdifficulties caused by the disruption to the projected population growth, the economic recession and the failure of the referendum proposal. 
The inquiry into planning processes by the Joint Parliamentary Committee was commenced before the referendum on self-government was put to the people. Much of the discontent and dissatisfaction felt by the people of the Australian Capital Territory with regard to planning processes came before the Committee. It was hoped- indeed, expected by some of us- that the referendum on self-government would be decided in favour of self-government and that we could proceed to delegate powers and devolve decision-making responsibilities to the community. Many of the issues raised in our inquiry into planning processes would have been resolved in that way. However, the majority of the people in the Australian Capital Territory voted against the self-government referendum. So we concluded the inquiry into planning processes with that knowledge, but with a number of very urgent recommendations about planning processes in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The urgency of these recommendations arises from the total dissatisfaction on the part of the Australian Capital Territory community with traditional planning processes here and with current planning processes. The National Capital Development Commission has been able to proceed with its own planning proposals unfettered by the wishes of the community. This has caused a great deal of controversy. I am aware, right at this moment, of several planning controversies in the Australian Capital Territory. I am sure that my colleague,  Senator Knight,  is also aware of them. Every time there is an attempt by the NCDC to change or develop some aspect of the Canberra plan, there is a controversy. 
The current controversies mostly concern infill programs, that is, proposals by the NCDC to put up flats and medium density housing in areas which were previously green spaces and which were enjoyed as such by the residents of the Australian Capital Territory. I certainly do not want to enter into the pros and cons of any of these individual planning proposals. What I am saying is that the proper resolution of these controversies is a matter of utmost urgency. 
Another important matter is the proper allocation of residential and business leases in this Territory. Again, we have a highly controversial area. It was the case for many years that the proper authorities in the Australian Capital Territory did not prosecute breaches of the City Areas Leases Ordinance, so we had a very confused situation developing where some people were operating businesses in residential areas to the discontent and the dissatisfaction of the neighbours and where other areas which were zoned for business development were not being taken up because they were not suitable to business interests and so forth. We had a very confused and controversial situation with regard to residential and business leases in the Australian Capital Territory. Again, that controversy has not been resolved. I expect my colleague,  Senator Knight,  has received as many submissions as I have for and against the various leasing decisions that have been taken during this confused period. 
We have a very urgent situation in the Australian Capital Territory. As I have said, we have a situation where the expectations of the population with regard to future employment and future education and training have been severely disrupted by the economic policies which the Fraser Government has inflicted on the Australian Capital Territory. We have a crisis in small business in the Australian Capital Territory. Large numbers of small businesses are going broke and having to withdraw. Families are losing their investments and so forth. Again, that is partly because of the disruption to the plans for the developing of Canberra. We have disruption in our local work force which is caused particularly by the cutback and the decline in the building and construction industry. All of these problems are directly related to the decisions that are made and the way in which decisions are made for the development of the Canberra plan. As I have said, since the failure of the referendum proposal there is, as yet, no proper avenue whereby citizens of the Australian Capital Territory can express their views effectively on planning proposals. Certainly, it is the case that the NCDC conducts public meetings from time to time, exhibits plans and invites comments and so forth. The end result is that there is still no effective way in which citizens of the Australian Capital Territory can affect this process. This is totally unsatisfactory. 
The members of the Committee inquiring into planning processes in the Australian Capital Territory went to great lengths to discuss with Australian Capital Territory residents how we could improve this situation and how in the absence of a self-government body- which is an absence, I think, which we will have to endure for the foreseeable future- we can provide effective means by which citizens of the Australian Capital Territory can say where they want roads to be extended and where they want recreation areas, business areas and areas which are to be purely residential. After all, this is the sort of view which any person living in any other part of Australia can express effectively through his of her local council. But in the Australian Capital Territory because we do not have a local council- of course, we do not have a State government, we have only the Federal Government- there is no proper avenue of expression. 
The situation is critical. It is one that has carried on in a very confused way for many years. Anomalies and injustices of various kinds have been allowed to go unaddressed. Finally, of course, the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory made a report with what I believe to be fairly significant and realistic recommendations to remove a lot of this chaos and to allow the future of Canberra- such as it is in the present economic climate- to be planned rationally with adequate notice given to local business interests and to people who may wish to come here to invest and to people who might want to make their homes in certain sorts of environments. Until the Government takes steps to implement these recommendations the situation remains chaotic and, I believe, very disruptive controversy amongst various community groups will continue to plague the community. As I said at the outset, I am very disappointed that the Government has been so dilatory in considering the report of the committee. 
The Minister said in his statement that the report has a wide scope and for that reason the Government still has it under consideration. I am afraid that that is not a satisfactory explanation given the chaotic state of planning at the moment. The report certainly has a wide scope, but the Federal Government has a very particular responsibility to this territory because it is the only government that this territory has. I believe that the Government has neglected the planning procedures report in the same way as it has neglected many other matters concerning the Australian Capital Territory to the detriment of the citizens living in my electorate. In conclusion, all I can do is to urge the Minister who brought down this statement to take to his Cabinet colleagues and to the Government my viewalthough 1 believe I am speaking for far and away the majority of my constituents- that the Government should act immediately to consider and implement the recommendations of this vital report.  ( Quorum formed. ) 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 2 September 1979: 
1 ) Why was there a stipulation in an advertisement for Trainee Stewards for the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) which appeared in the  Daily Telegraph  and the  Australian  on I September 1979, that there were no female vacancies available. 
How many: (a) males; and (b) females, have been employed as trainee stewards for the RAAF in each year since 1975. 
How many: (a) males; and (b) female, stewards are at present employed by the RAAF. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 2 September 1979: 
1 ) Why was there a stipulation in an advertisement which appeared in the  Daily Telegraph  and the  Australian  on1 September 1979, advertising, vacancies in the Royal Australian Air Force ( RAAF) for Supply Clerks, Clerks, Typists Clerks and Accounts Clerks, that there were no female vacancies available. 
How many: (a) males; and (b) females, have been employed as Clerks in the RAAF in each year since 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) When and where did the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony, M.P., meet  Mr Yunupingu,  the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council, during the period 8-10 August 1978. for an official discussion of the then current Ranger negotiations. 
Who else was present at that meeting. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services and refers to a report in the  Age  of Tuesday, 9 October, describing new guidelines for the Public Service which include, amongst other things, a provision whereby a head of a department can appeal to the Prime Minister in the case of a dispute between the head and his Minister. I ask: Are these guidelines official, who introduced them, and are they designed to destroy confidence between the Minister and his or her departmental head and further centralise power in the hands of the Prime Minister? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) Who is to replace the out-going Director of the Australian Opera. 
Why has the Australian Opera had such difficulty in retaining directors. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to a question I asked him on 13 September regarding the Minister's intention to direct the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to hold an inquiry into the problems of the concentration of media ownership in this country. I have had no reply to that question. In view of reports of an intended takeover of Channel 0 in Melbourne by Rupert Murdoch, a development which would greatly increase concentration of media ownership, I ask: Does the Government now intend to have the Tribunal inquire into this matter and change the broadcasting and television ownership provisions according to its findings or will the Government yet again allow a takeover by a major media proprietor to make a mockery of its own stated policy of diversity of ownership in the media? 
I ask the Attorney-General: Has the working party on rape law reform in the Australian Capital Territory submitted to the Attorney-General recommendations for new legislation? When will the Attorney-General make known the nature of the changes which are to be made to rape legislation in the Australian Capital Territory? When will the new legislation be ready for the Parliament's consideration? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I would like to make some comments on behalf of the Opposition with respect to the statement made by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  My colleague in another place, the honourable member for Melbourne,  Mr Ted  Innes, already has had the opportunity to make some comments reflecting the views of the Opposition on this matter; but I wish to add a few points to what he said. First of all, although the Opposition is pleased finally to have some indication from the Government of its intentions in regard to this very new piece of technology- namely, a communications satellite- we can only express again our disappointment at the content of the statement made by the Minister and, indeed, at the response of the Government to the report of its working party on the matter. 
Unfortunately the Minister's statement is characterised by the same hyperbole, irresponsibility, imprecision and self-contradiction as have characterised most of his statements on the communications satellite. Although  Mr Staley  told the Parliament and the public that he was bringing down a decision which would launch Australia into the space age, in fact the statement contains very little clear indication of what services can be expected if that technology is developed and, indeed, what the cost will be. The Minister in making his hyperbolic statement about launching Australia into the space age is choosing to ignore, for the purposes of his own rhetoric, the very real and established opportunities that Australia has already to benefit from satellite technology. As any regular viewer of television will know, already it is not uncommon for Australia to receive the benefits of international satellite technology by way of satellite reports of important world events in Europe and the United States of America. This is an established source of broadcast material for both commercial and national television networks. There is nothing new about communications satellite technology in that respect. Similarly, the Overseas Telecommunications Commission has been engaged for many years in activities involving the use of international satellite technology. Of course,  Mr Staley  's Government has already made a decision- I believe it is in the process of implementing this decision- that part of the international satellite Intelsat will be leased by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in order to bring national ABC television broadcasts to selected parts of outback Australia. 
All of these developments the Opposition has agreed with and has welcomed. It has already been established very firmly that satellite communications technology can and indeed does bring useful services to the Australian public. So, it is really quite ludicrous for the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to get up and claim that what he said in his statement will launch us into the space age. That launching, such as it is, happened some years ago. As I said, the Minister's statement is characterised by this sort of exaggeration and overstatement. For some time, both in the Parliament and outside it, I have attempted to make the point that the Minister has been irresponsible in making the imprecise and extravagant statements he has made. He has raised expectations of people, particularly in outback and rural Australia, that all their communications problems will be solved very cheaply, efficiently and speedily by this domestic communications satellite system. For the responsible Minister for telecommunications to give that impression to people who have very serious communications disadvantages is, I suggest, a serious irresponsibility. 
If one had listened with reasonable care to the Minister's statement one could have reasonably assumed that in the year 1984, a date chosen by the Minister without a blush, all problems would be solved. I notice that my colleague,  Senator Coleman,  from Western Australia, agrees with me. The Federal Opposition and, in particular, the elected representatives from rural and outback Australia, are very well aware of the communications needs of outback Australia. The Opposition has long argued for an improvement of the situation. I have been arguing that Telecom Australia, for example, should be in a position to accelerate its plans to bring telephone services to rural and outback Australia. But for the Minister to get up and give the impression that in 1 984 all problems will be immediately solved and solved at a very low cost does not help the situation. The confusion caused by the Minister's various exaggerated and unfounded statements is vast. It has done nothing at all to aid rational debate on this matter. It has, of course, done nothing to aid the rational bipartisan development of a communications policy. It seems to me that we should have such a bipartisan policy on developing communications services for the outback, but it is impossible for us to develop such a policy while the Minister continues to make these outrageous statements. 
If we look closely at the Minister's statement we will see that what he claims is that he has made an 'in principle' decision to proceed with the communications satellite. What does an 'in principle' decision mean? We certainly cannot derive its meaning from the Minister's statement. If we look very closely at his statement we will see that at this stage the Government is committed to only one thing. It is, not a communications satellite or telephone service for the outback or anything else, but simply a new bureaucratic structure to be named a national satellite project office and set up within the Department of Post and Telecommunications. That is the single real commitment which is contained in the Minister's statement. 
The Federal Opposition has no objections to this project office being set up. The job of this office will be to look further at the development of social and employment aspects of the technology. But the setting up of the office is an admission by the Government that it in fact does not know enough to come to a decision. The Opposition does not argue that the setting up of the project office is not a useful operation, but it is really all that the Government has committed itself to. It will be simply another piece of bureaucracy to look further at the question. That is a far cry from assuring the people of outback Australia that they will get telephones tomorrow, which is virtually the impression that  Mr Staley  has tried to give. Similarly with cost, if we look at the statements that the Minister has made we will see that there is a degree of selfcontradiction and, of course, ultimately a degree of inconclusiveness about cost. At one point in his statement he said: 
We have critically evaluated the real costs involved in a decision to establish a system to meet the particular needs and circumstances of this country. 
Of course, the Department of Finance and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet disagree with that statement. They, in fact, have put in dissenting reports on costing and profit from the working party report. Yet the Minister claimed that there has been a realistic costing. Later on, though, he contradicted himself. Having claimed that there has been a critical evaluation of the real costs, and after giving a speculative budgeting description, he went on in the same statement to say: 
I would reiterate the indicative nature of these projections on capital and revenue flows. As already pointed out, more definitive projections will be subject to planning activities and assessments of the satellite project office. 
So they ought to be. They ought to be subjected to more planning activities and assessments, but that statement contradicts the statement, which he made a couple of pages earlier, that the Government knows the real cost. The Government does not know the real cost. Even the working party report, on which this statement is based, did not establish the real cost. 
It would appear that the cost of the satellite is to be borne to a large extent by public users; that is, Government departments and agencies who will pay the satellite authority for use of the satellite. That, of course, is a reasonable method of funding the innovation. However, when we get down to which government departments have a real need to use satellite facilities, we have a very short list indeed. We have the Department of Transport, Telecom Australia itself and as I mentioned, OTC. There is also some mention of commercial broadcasters and the ABC. Although the Minister claims that there will be enormous benefits in the delivery of health and education services through a communications satellite, there has been no mention of either the Department of Health or the Department of Education or, for that matter, the Schools Commission, and no details at all have been given as to how these Departments could use the technology to improve their services. 
A very particular area of confusion to which the Minister appears to contribute every time he makes a statement on this subject, is the cost to the consumer for the ground station that he will need in order to receive services off the satellite. I think it was only two weeks ago that the Minister,  Mr Staley,  when addressing a meeting in Meekathara, said that the cost of the ground stations to the individual customer would be in the vicinity of $450. Yet in his statement a couple of weeks later he said that the same piece of technology has been costed at $1,000.  Mr President,  that is a difference of over 100 per cent. Whereas an individual user, a farmer or person living in a remote area, might be able to afford $450, he might not be able to afford $1,000. In such a basic area as the cost of the ground station, for the Minister's costing to be varied by 100 per cent in a period of two weeks does not inspire confidence. It does not inspire the confidence of the Opposition and I suggest that it does not inspire in any of the potential users confidence that the Government actually knows what it is about and can put forward a realistic and properly costed proposal. 
Another very disturbing aspect of the Minister's statement is the way in which he dismissed the fears which have been expressed about the displacement of employment. Telecom Australia is Australia's largest employer. Fears have been expressed by Telecom management, as well as by the unions covering the employees at Telecom, that if a communications satellite is to proceed, the workload for Telecom will be quite seriously reduced and many jobs will disappear. This is a quite reasonable expectation and many submissions to the various inquiries into the communications satellite have demonstrated that the fear is very well founded. There is a weil demonstrated shrinkage in the growth rate of employment in Telecom and that shrinkage, of course, would increase if many of the functions currently performed by Telecom were to be taken over by a communications satellite. In a time of record unemployment which is also structural unemployment, at a time when the Government is desperately looking for scapegoats as a cause of unemployment and is desperately seeking to find training schemes and other ways of absorbing the unemployed so that they do not show up in the unemployment statistics, it is surprising, to say the least, that the employment displacing consequences of communications satellite technology have been given so little consideration. The Minister gives one sentence to this all important aspect in his statement. He says: 
There have been some expressions of concern about possible effects of a domestic satellite on employment in Australia. Both the task force and the working group considered the matter carefully. In the light of overseas experience, reports by both groups of officials concluded that a domestic satellite system would have no net adverse effects on employment. 
That may be the case, but we would like to see evidence that that is the case, and I consider it totally unacceptable for the Minister to dismiss this all important matter of employment with such cursory treatment. 
The honourable senator asks whether I am against the satellite. It is very difficult to find a rational answer to that question. The answer is that the Federal Opposition is in favour of any genuine improvements to the communications situation of rural and outback Australia. What it is against is a proposal which either will be too costly for the individual customer to take advantage of or will impose a disproportionate burden on the taxpayer and on the public users of the system. What the Opposition is looking for is evidence that we have a system which will bring the services which are needed at a cost that the consumer and the taxpayer can bear. We have no such evidence to date. Of course the Opposition is not opposed in principle to satellite technology. There would be no rational reason to be opposed to any technology in principle. 
The alternatives are there. Alternatives have been spelt out by a number of Government agencies. 
I should like to take the opportunity to make some comments on the report of the working group on which the Minister's statement has been based. Again I stress the question of cost. I do not think it is unreasonable for the Opposition to be dwelling on the matter of cost. At a time of such economic cutback and restraints, at a time when we cannot get adequate funding for any of the social programs that are needed in the community, it is not unreasonable to ask the Government when it is proposing to spend some hundreds of millions of taxpayers dollars on a new development that the costing be justified. If we have a look at the report of the working group on the national satellite system, we find an even less convincing argument for use of a domestic satellite in Australia than, say, the report of the Task Force- the White report- that preceded it. 
In attempting to answer the many questions raised by the report of the Task Force the working group report demonstrates how little real demand there is for satellite use, that is, beyond the demand by people in outback areas. Also, in addressing itself to the question of cost, it reveals that by 1982 even a basic satellite system will cost the public sector in excess of $325m, and it underlines that that is not the total cost to the community. Although it does not attempt to quantify secondary costs, it does suggest that these may exceed $ 100m, and these would be for such needs as frequency re-allocation, interface with the terrestrial network, and so on. Nor does it include costs to be borne directly by the users of the service, especially those in remote areas who are expected to pay the full costs of the television ground stations and who will be expected to meet part of the costs of the telephone ground stations. The report also stresses that its cost estimates are predicted upon a plus or minus 20 per cent margin, and their optimistic economic assessment is based upon the Government requiring only 5 per cent interest on equity capital. A more realistic factor of 10 per cent interest is also considered in its models of economic performance. 
The question whether 5 per cent or 10 per cent is charged upon capital is central to the apparent viability of a satellite system, for five per cent would represent a very large subsidy compared with the nominal market rate of 10 per cent. At 5 per cent it is estimated that a satellite system, including remote telephony, would be just breaking even at the end of the working life of the first generation of satellite. The report continually admits that it lacks the precise knowledge on which to base firm economic predictions, even on such crucial matters as the level of true demand for telephony services in remote areas. 
On page 1 13, the report states: 
A detailed survey of the likely level of demand in isolated areas should be undertaken before embarking on a program to provide the services. 
Demand for these services, of course, is dependent upon costs. But costs cannot be delivered until firm services are identified. However, one point is clear. On page 1 1 3, the working group suggests that the Government should consider: 
Whether a charge of, say, $1,000 per annum or more, or an $8,000 initial contribution was warranted to reduce the burden on Telecom's resources. 
Apparently Telecom is to subsidise the remote services. That leads back to Telecom's fear reported on page 1 6 of the report, where it says: 
Telecom is anxious that the introduction of a satellite system will not be a factor causing an increase in basic telephone charges as the average customer would obtain little or no benefit. 
The question remains whether the creation of the excess telecommunications capacity which a satellite represents will lead ultimately to higher telephone charges. The economic case for the satellite is not established by the working group, and its findings suggest that Australia's experience with satellites would be no more profitable than Canada's. 
In Canada, the seeming viability of the satellite, even after seven years, is achieved only by a price fixing traffic regulating agreement- the Telesat Agreement- among the private telephone companies and heavy government use of the satellite by the Canadian Broadcasting Commission. But the Canadian low cost direct broadcast satellite for remote telephony remains the system's strongest selling point. The Canadian technology to which I am now referring, and about which the Minister is so enthusiastic, is not proven in normal operating conditions. It is a technically inferior system because technical performance has been traded off against costs. It operates in a high frequency band width which is prone to rain interference. Also there is no guarantee that the system will be free from other forms of interference in the future. 
Satellite use is governed by an international convention and the Plan for Satellite Use which came out of the 1977 Conference on Satellite Broadcasting. Low-powered direct broadcasting is, as noted, prone to interference and would be blotted out if any other country embarked on a high-powered direct broadcasting service. Japan is planning such a service. Therefore, on page 78, the working group states: 
If transmit powers of 20 watts were to be utilised, it is considered that it would be most difficult to obtain the agreement of administrations which might be expected to offer freedom from interference to earth station reception in Australia if the low power services employ the same nominal orbital positions as those assigned to Australia in the Plan. Consequently, any such use would most likely be on the basis that there is inadequate protection from interference from transmissions from other countries operating in accordance with the plan. 
The point of that reference is to say that, if we embark very quickly on the cheaper lowpowered service and then Japan moves in to a high-powered service, we might find that the broadcasting potential of the system is destroyed and that once again people in the remote areas are deprived of adequate communications. We do not yet have a system which is suitable to provide the services which are needed. If we did, there is no doubt that the Opposition would be supporting it. But if we go into a low-powered system whose broadcasting ability will be wiped out by a Japanese system in a few years, I do not think we are doing the people in the remote areas any service at all, and also we are engaging in an unjustified expenditure of taxpayers money, starting at somewhere in excess of $300m. 
The subsidy for remote services is crucial to the viability of the satellite authority, and it is its most attractive selling point. Telecom has suggested that, if it is a Government priority to provide these remote services and, if they are to be provided by satellite, there are alternatives, and, as he was asking about alternatives, perhaps  Senator Archer  could pay attention to this aspect. Two alternatives exist. They are: Either leasing further time on Intelsat or joining in a regional satellite scheme. Both would lower cost and lessen the duplication and wastage of capital that would come from Australia having its own satellite. These alternatives remain to be fully explored. 
Given all of the predictions about cost, and even technical feasibility, of a low-powered, lowcost direct broadcasting service to remote areas, both the Department of Finance and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet dissented. I would have thought that the Minister, in bringing down this report and making this statement, would have offered some comment on that dissent. It is all very well to make speeches about launching Australia into the space age and uniting Australia through the availability of commercial television into one cohesive nation, but when both the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Finance dissent the general public and the Opposition have very good reason to say that the Minister's statement is unsatisfactory. 
I conclude my remarks- I hope that there will be further opportunity to debate this matter in the Senate- by quoting from an editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  concerning the Minister's statement. It concurs with, and expresses fairly clearly, the sorts of reservations and worries that the Opposition has with regard to what the Minister pretends to be committing the Government to. The editorial states: 
The Federal Government's satellite proposal is as unsatisfactory as the discussion which has surrounded it and the decision-making process from whence it has sprung. 
A decision in principle in favour of a satellite communications system, announced yesterday by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  completes a process begun more than two years ago by the Packer organisation. 
The Packer-commissioned Bond report contradicted a detailed study by Telecom Australia which concluded that a communications satellite for Australia was not cost-justified. 
Placed against the vast expertise of Telecom's internationally recognised technical staff, the report of an American consultant engaged by a vested interest may not have been expected to carry much weight. 
One can only concur with that judgment. The editorial concludes: 
More than a third of the projected use of the satellite is allocated to an Australian Broadcasting Commission starved of funds and in a state of almost constant conflict with the Government to preserve its programming levels. 
Either there are undisclosed plans for a massive injection into the ABC's programming budgets or someone somewhere is being optimistic about potential satellite usage. 
Despite two years of discussion, there has still been no demonstrated need for a satellite; to show that it can- at less than a huge cost- do anything not possible by existing technology. 
It is the responsibility of the Government to show that there is a cost-effective case, that the services provided can be provided by satellite only and that Telecom's plan for extending telephone services in the conventional way is less satisfactory and cost-effective than is the satellite proposal before the Government makes even an in-principle decision. I hope that the establishing of the National Project Office with a charter to explore the whole issue more firmly will provide some of the answers. In the meantime I say that the Federal Opposition, anxious as it is to see improved communications in outback and rural Australia, cannot regard the working party report as a basis on which a decision to proceed with the communications satellite should be made. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted.  (Quorum formed).  Debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
1 ) Are micro-wave links which are owned and operated by: (a) Telecom Australia; (b) private companies; and (c) other Government authorities, licensed under the Wireless Telegraphy Act 1905. 
If licences are not issued for operation of micro- wave links, what other administrative arrangements are made for their use. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) Was  Dr R.  L. Sharwood appointed to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal as an acting member specifically for the 3CR inquiry. 
What terms and conditions of appointment for  Dr Sharwood  were determined by the Governor-General, under Section 10 (7) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. 
What role did  Dr Sharwood  play in the preparation of the Tribunal's decision on the acquisition of shares in Channel 10, Sydney, by News Ltd. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Has a licence been granted under the Wireless Telegraphy Act 1905 or have any other administrative arrangements been made, for the conduct of trial satellite transmission by the Canadian Hermes satellite in August 1979. 
I present the following petition from 3679 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That the establishment of a gambling casino in Canberra would debase the National Capital and increase crime in Canberra. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should seek to preserve the dignity of the 
National Capital by disallowing any ordinance to authorise the establishment of a gambling casino in Canberra. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Does the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs intend to make a declaration under section S of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1975 to enable the Yarrabah Council to manage and control the affairs of the Yarrabah community? Did the Minister receive a request to this effect from the Council on 30 January this year? Can the Minister say whether a declaration under this Act would effectively counter any resistance by the Queensland Government? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I must express the view of the Federal Opposition with regard to the report that the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  has just put down. It seems to lis to be an absolute affrontry for the Minister to claim at this stage that the Government has a good record with regard to the funding of research and development in this country. In fact the ability of our country to carry out academic research and development has deteriorated markedly in the last few years and continues to deteriorate. ,It is simply not good enough for the Government to boast, as the Minister has done, that there has been an allocation in excess of $ 12m for research and development to the Australian Research Grants Committee. The Minister claims that we will be pleased to note that the real value of funds available to the ARGC has been maintained despite the stringent economic climate'. 
The Federal Opposition is not pleased to note the very stringent funding that has been allocated to the ARGC. Simply to maintain last year's very mean allocation in this area is not adequate. 
We have a very serious problem of unemployment in this country- a problem which seems to have escaped the serious attention of the Government. One of the reasons for this serious problem is that we have failed to develop those areas of research which we are capable of developing. One of the fundamental reasons for the unemployment situation in this country is that we simply have not been pursuing those areas of research in terms of geography, general education standards and so forth which we are well equipped to do. We ought to be a world leader in some areas of research such as solar energy technology, agricultural science and technology and medical science and technology. We ought to be a world leader because in our universities we have very capable and very experienced researchers in these fields, but we are not leading the world. In fact, we are lagging behind the world in research and development in these areas because the Government simply will not allocate adequate funding to research and development. It is really very disappointing that the Minister presents a report describing a vote of $12m to this area and talks about it as if it is something of which the Government can be proud. It is scandal that we have treated so meanly the question of research and development in our tertiary institutions. I notice  Senator Baume  looking a little bit sceptical about the remarks I am making. 
I would draw his attention to the fact that it is not only my view but also the view of the Federal Opposition that in recent times the Government has been far too mean by underfunding research in this country. 

 -If Senator Puplick takes that view he might be more in touch with what is happening in our universities and in the employment market than is the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster.  Of course, that would not be very hard to do, as  Senator Tate  would know. I draw the attention of the Senate to an article published in the Melbourne  Age  of the third of this month on research and the disastrous effects the Government's tight-fistedness in this respect is having on Australian universities. I shall quote some of the facts which are discussed in that article. The article points out that research funds for Australia's 19 universities have been halved in the past few years. The article states: 
In the past 10 years the ratio of research expenditure to recurrent grants has fallen from about 1 9 per cent to less than 9 per cent. 
It is in the light of that that the Minister continues to claim that the Government is doing very well. The article also draws attention to the very serious problem of the departure overseas of bright young academics, the figures for which now amount to one in every four students with a doctorate. This is a very serious matter. The public invests a great deal of money in the production of students at doctorial level in this country and I think the public expects that the money invested in those students will be returned to the society by way of the work and contributions those students will make. But now we find that one in four of them is leaving the country. The article states: 
The number of post-graduate research awards has been cut progressively from 725 in 1976 to 555 in 1979 and the number remains unchanged for 1980. 
The awards offer a sum of $4,200 a year for a single person and are taxable. In 1959, a post-graduate award averaged 85 per cent of the university research assistant's salary. It has fallen to 38 per cent. 
In the light of that, it is not surprising that very few of our highly qualified and skilled young people are seeking a career in university research in this country. The effect has been noted at all of our major universities and spokespeople for our major universities have not hesitated to spell out the disastrous effects of that sort of funding. Again I quote from the article in the  Age.  It refers to the University of Melbourne, possibly the alma mater of some honourable senators in this chamber at the moment, including  Senator Missen,  who seems to have other matters on his mind. The article states: 
-Well, I think you should. 
I can describe the source. 
It is 1976. Is that recent enough for the Minister? 
I seek leave to incorporate the document. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197911063_15_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911063_16_1.jpg"></graphic>

The reluctance of the Minister to grant leave in this matter I think is an indication of the failure of the Government to face up to the realities of where Australia stands with comparable countries in its present level of funding of research and development and the consequences that that will have for the future. 
How can Australia expect to pull itself out of the economic recession it is now in unless it has new areas of research and development, new industries or new avenues for training and employment? Where are these to come from? They will come not only from giving handouts and subsidies to mining companies. They must come from giving proper opportunities for research and development within our Australian universities. The Australian public has a very large investment in our tertiary institutions. These institutions are not there just for the individual advantage of the people who are lucky enough to study at them. The Australian public is taxed to support a vast and very highly developed network of tertiary institutions in this country. I think the Australian public has a right to expect that social and economic benefits will flow from this massive investment in our tertiary institutions. But there can be no flowing back of benefit into the community and into the Australian economy unless we are able to use in a fruitful way the experience and talent that reside within those universities. 
In concluding my remarks, I point out that the Opposition takes issue with the claims made by the Minister that we should be pleased about the level of funding for the Australian Research Grants Committee. We consider it to be a grossly inadequate allocation and an indication of a grossly insensitive attitude towards Australia's present and future economic position and to the whole use of the educational resources at present in this country. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 276 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That freedom of learning and teaching cannot be maintained unless tertiary institutions can operate autonomously, free from the threat of government control. 
That the proposed Bill to amend the Australian National University Act and Bill to amend the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act force the governing Councils of those institutions to implement the government's wishes regarding student organisations, despite those Councils' opposition to the government on this question. 
That the Bills' main intent is to prohibit payments to the Australian Union of Students from students General Service Fee monies, despite the student organisations affiliation with AUS and majority student support for that affiliation. 
That the Bills therefore attack a legitimate student union, apparently in order to stifle its political opposition to the present government. 
Your petitioners therefore strongly urge their legislators to oppose the Bill to amend the ANU Act and the Bill to amend theCCAEAct. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and follows a question I asked him yesterday, and his answer, in respect of the intention of the Government to make a declaration under section 5 of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1975 to enable the Yarrabah Council to manage and control its community. In answer to my question  Senator Chaney  informed the Senate: 
. a series of negotiations has been held between the two governments. 
That is the Federal Government and the Queensland Government.  Senator Chaney  further said: 
It is expected that at least one Queensland Minister and I will visit Yarrabah later this month to discuss the matters - 
I draw the Minister's attention to the following comments from the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs,  Mr Porter.  In a letter to  Senator Chaney  dated 4 July 1979, he stated: 
. I am forced to believe that further Ministerial  . . talks would be inimical to the accord we would hope our Governments should aim at achieving, both in the interests of the Aboriginal people (not only at Yarrabah) and of your Government's electoral credibility in this State. 
In an article in volume 4 of the Aboriginal newspaper  Messagestick  of September 1979,  Mr Porter  is reported as saying: 
Yarrabah is the only reserve that is against the State Government and I know the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs is stirring up this trouble, we have the times and dates of every Federal officer who has visited Yarrabah. 
In the light of those comments by  Mr Porter,  can the Minister explain the nature of the negotiations between the Federal Government and the Queensland Government to which he has referred? Which Minister does he expect to accompany him, as he mentioned in his answer yesterday? What are the prospects of reaching an agreement when there has been such a declaration of war against the Federal Government by the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
What studies have been carried out to assess: (a) any possible loss of revenue by Telecom that would result from the introduction of a National Communications Satellite; (b) the impact which any loss of revenue would have upon the amortisation of Telecom's capital stock and long-term debt funding; and (c) the impact which loss of data, facsimile and  private network traffic  to a separate satellite authority would ha ve upon Telecom 's long-term equilibrium pricing policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
What is the estimated power consumption of the small earth station using an antenna of 1.2 metres' diameter or less, envisaged for use on remote homesteads, needed to effect: (a) television reception only from (b) two-way telephony through, a 20 watt satellite transponder similar to that used in the Canadian Hermes satellite and planned for use in the ANIK C series satellite. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
How many of three thousand remote homesteads which the Task Force Report on a National Communications Satellite System identified as needing a satellite service to provide television reception and two-way telephony have a power supply of two kilowatts available. 
What is the estimated cost of providing a power supply of two kilowatts for each homestead without electricity. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
How many individual subscriber telephony circuits, operating through satellites, are there (a) world-wide, (b) in Canada and (c) in the United States of America. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In the light of today's announcement that  Mr Murdoch  of News Ltd will seek a controlling interest in the Herald and Weekly Times media group, is the Government now prepared to hold an inquiry into the concentration of media ownership in Australia? Given the refusal of the Minister to direct the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to hold such an inquiry, is the Government prepared to appoint a royal commission to carry out such an inquiry? 
I rise to take the opportunity presented in this debate to give a brief report to the Committee and the Australian public on a matter of great public interest. Recently, in the company of  Senator Martin,  I joined a delegation of American congresswomen seeking to enter Kampuchea to plead with the authorities to allow more relief in to assist the people, particularly the children, who had been the victims of warfare and violence in that country. I think that the Australian public is very well aware of the plight of the people of Kampuchea, both those who have survived the holocaust within that country and those who have sought refuge in neighbouring Thailand. 
I am greatly gratified that the Australian public has taken the situation very much to heart and has responded very generously to the various calls for aid from Australian aid agencies. Because of the great interest by Australians in what has happened to the Kampucheans in recent times and because no Australian parliamentarian had been into Kampuchea since 1975 I believed, along with  Senator Martin,  that it was important that we should make every effort to get into the country so that we could bring back to the Parliament a first hand account of the needs of the people there and reassure the Australian public that the aid that it was giving so generously was reaching the people for whom it was intended. 
The initiative came from American congresswomen who, like the people of Australia, had been extremely concerned and distressed by the reports of massive starvation and deprivation in Kampuchea itself and in the refugee camps. They wanted to make some concrete sign of goodwill and support towards those suffering people. It was an initiative of congresswomen particularly I think arising from the women's caucus within the Congress. It was hoped that a delegation of women, perhaps because of its novelty, might have a particular impression on the Kampuchean authorities. Women from legislatures all over the world were invited to join the delegation. In the event only  Senator Martin  and I from the Australian Parliament were able to join the delegation. But we brought with us to the administration in Kampuchea messages of support for the exercise from all women in Australian parliaments. This, in itself, I think is unique and very important. 
I will describe very briefly our experiences, and  Senator Martin  will expand on this description. Firstly, we were able to visit two refugee camps in Thailand. One was at Sa keo. It is a new camp which had been constructed specially by the Thai administration in order to allow refugees who had been living along the border for some time to move into the sanctuary of Thailand and to receive the aid that was being offered by the aid agencies. The condition of most adults and children in that camp was very dire indeed. There had been many deaths- up to 40 a day. That number was decreasing with the assistance that was being provided. Distressing signs of extreme deprivation, starvation and disease amongst adults and amongst children in particular were evident. However, the camp was being administered by representatives of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Most of the world aid agencies as well as independent relief teams including an Australian medical team were giving assistance to the refugees. It was heartening to see that the efforts of the international agencies were so effective and that the agencies were so competent at delivering emergency services in these traumatic circumstances. 
The delegation subsequently visited a very large border camp in the province of Arunyaprathet where up to 200,000 people were seeking refuge from the continued fighting in that part of Kampuchea. It was very difficult for us to ascertain the general standard of health in that camp because of the sheer weight and mass of people. However, again it appeared that there were very serious needs for food, shelter, medical supplies and administrative assistance of all kinds. On the next day we were finally able to get visas to enter Phnom Penh. With the American congresswomen we did so. The sight that met our eyes was as distressing as has been described in various parts of the media. The city has been destroyed. The countryside has been destroyed. There are no resources at the moment to meet the needs of the people who have survived what was carried out during the Pol Pot regime. However, the Australian public will be interested to know that emergency food supplies and other emergency assistance are getting into. Phnom Penh via the international agencies. Representatives of various international agencies in Phnom Pehn are working with the administration to try to restructure, and set up, services for the supply of food, medical services and transportation. According to the report of the relief workers in Phnom Penh, every effort is being made in the most difficult of all imaginable circumstances to start to supply some of the immediate needs. 
A subject of discussion in the world community has been whether the aid has been able to get into Phnom Penh and the surrounding areas. We were relieved to find that aid was reaching at least the needy in Phnom Penh. The distribution of aid from Phnom Penh into the countryside is difficult. The transportation system has been totally destroyed and very few of the people left are able to carry out any sort of food distribution program. The process is very slow. However, we left Phnom Penh feeling that every effort was being made. Again we can give assurances to the Australian public that the aid that it is giving via bodies such as the Australian Council for Overseas Aid and World Vision is indeed meeting its targets. 
Back in Bangkok we were able to have a meeting with the Prime Minister of Thailand.  Senator Martin  on our behalf was able to express to the Prime Minister the appreciation of the Australian people for the very generous efforts which the Government of Thailand is making in assisting the refugees. At some risk to its own security Thailand is permitting the refugees to enter its country. It is providing a haven for hundreds of thousands of people and, of course, is co-. operating in every way with the international agencies to bring emergency services to these people. This is a very generous act of the Government of Thailand and one which involves its own security. I have been gratified to learn since we returned to Australia that even more camps are being constructed by the Thai authorities and more refugees will be moved from the very dangerous border areas into the relative safety of Thailand. 
One could go on at great length describing the circumstances of the people who are the victims of what has happened in Kampuchea in recent years. There have been some very graphic photographs and news reports of the situation. I have certainly never witnessed such deprivation, severe starvation and rampant illness on such a large scale. I am sure most Australians would feel as I do that that situation is totally unacceptable. Anything the Australian public can do to alleviate it will be welcome. The fact of the matter is that the situation will continue for the foreseeable future. There is no immediate resolution for the political problems of Kampuchea in sight; so there will be an on-going flow of refugees seeking refuge in Thailand, assistance from the world community and. in some cases, seeking refuge in countries such as Australia. Vast amounts of aid will have to be supplied by the world community to the camps within Thailand. 
It is unthinkable that Thailand itself should bear the full brunt of providing services to these people. Vast amounts of aid will have to be sent continually into Kampuchea itself. One of the heartening results of our visit was that the Kampuchean administration has expressed itself as being more willing and flexible in regard to the receipt of aid from international agencies and the very necessary matter of allowing medical personnel into the country is now under consideration. We were led to believe that this was under consideration by the administration in Kampuchea. Kampuchea is a devastated country. There is no question of its being able to provide for its people the resources they need. There is no question that it can be rebuilt without substantial on-going help from the world community and in particular from countries like Australia where there is very serious recognition of the problem and a willingness to assist. 
In conclusion, I would like to assure all of those people who have been giving assistance through our agencies to the international agencies that what they have been doing has been effective and very important. I hope that they will continue to exercise the generosity they have exercised to date. I would like to place on record my appreciation and recognition of the very excellent work being carried out by all the international agencies which are active both within the camps in Thailand and in Kampuchea itself and, of course, our own aid agencies which are co-operating with them. I personally acknowledge the assistance given to  Senator Martin  and me by officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs both here in Canberra and in Bangkok. Our trip was arranged at extremely short notice and it was only because of the very strenuous and competent efforts of Department of Foreign Affairs officers that we were able to secure the necessary documentation to carry out this exercise. Any person living in an affluent and lucky country like Australia ought to feel that he or she can contribute to alleviating the problem. I hope that we will continue to do so. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer the Minister to her answer last week in this place when she said that, before examining the official file concerning the possibility of a reward being given for information in February of this year, she had no recollection of the matter. I ask: In the examination of the file, did she learn that discussion of the reward was for 'an unnamed person' or 'an unnamed social security pensioner or beneficiary', or whether the alias  Mr Nakis  had used when communicating with Detective Chief Inspector Thomas- that is,  Mr Con  Poulos- was used? If there was no information on the file as to the informant's identity, why did the Minister not ask for it? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
Very briefly I would like to say that the report on the Australian National Gallery is welcome in that it goes into some detail about the expanded activities of the Australian National Gallery, the increase in acquisitions for the National Gallery collection, and progress towards the opening of the National Gallery building in 1981. The report predicts that the Gallery will still open on time. However, I wish to take this opportunity to present my concern about the staffing situation at the Australian National Gallery. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the staffing situation as set out in this annual report. Gallery staff as at 1 July 1978 was 33. This rose to 50 in the course of the year, the new figure being the staff ceiling set for 1978-79. These figures should be compared with the 268 staff necessary to operate the building when it opens to the public. I express concern that the Government, through its staff ceilings policy, will be impeding the proper establishment of staff for the opening of the gallery in 1981. It seems to me that if 268 people are necessary when the Gallery opens, the current staff ceiling of 50 persons is far too low. I hope that the Government takes note of my remarks. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I must say on behalf of the Opposition that this report is welcome and that its title, 'More than a Token Gesture', is appropriate. The National Women's Advisory Council has come under some criticism from very small minority groups in the community for its activities. However, I would like to place on record my appreciation, and the appreciation of the Opposition, for the extremely competent and effective work by way of advising government on policies affecting women that has been carried out by the National Women 's Advisory Council. I would recommend to all honourable senators, particularly those who may be sympathetic to some of the criticisms made of the National Women's Advisory Council, that they read this report and address themselves to the very thorough recommendations within the report covering a vast range of areas affecting women in Australia in our time. 
In particular, I hope that the Government will address itself to the issue of sex discrimination legislation. In particular, I believe that recommendations 64 and 66 of the Council's report ought to be acted upon at the earliest possible opportunity. Recommendation 64 reads: 
Commonwealth sex discrimination legislation should cover both direct and indirect discrimination in the areas of employment, education, accommodation, access to goods, services and facilities, credit, insurance and superannuation, sport, recreation and clubs, the Defence Forces and Government contracts, and should apply to the Australian Capital Territory and to Government administration. The proposed law should provide sanctions against offenders, and remedies for those with justified complaints. 
Recommendation 66, which I heartily endorse, states: 
The Commonwealth Government should act quickly to enact the strongest possible sex discrimination legislation consistent with its constitutional powers and in the spirit of the recommendations developed by the Council's National Conference on proposed Commonwealth sex discrimination legislation. 
I would simply say that the Human Rights Commission legislation which is being enacted in this place at this time goes no way at all towards the recommendation for sex discrimination legislation outlined in the report. I express the hope that at the earliest opportunity in the meeting of the Parliament after Christmas we will have before us sex discrimination legislation as outlined in the first annual report of the National Women's Advisory Council. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I wish to take the opportunity presented by the first reading debate on the Canned Fruits Marketing Bill and associated Bills to make some remarks to the Senate about an area of possible job creation which it seems to me the Government has been very reluctant to address and do anything about. We have, as we all know, a crisis of unemployment in this country. We have continual expressions from responsible Ministers in the Government of the difficulty of finding suitable areas to train young people for employment. We have a number of Band-aid schemes that are supposed to assist people to endure unemployment. We have a lot more serious discussions than we used to have in the media about the problems of unemployment, but we see very little in the way of creative, imaginative programs for the creation of worthwhile skilled work that people want to do. One of the areas where there is an obvious potential for job creation and skill creation is the creative arts. Too often in the past in Australia discussion and debate about the arts have been very limited and very restricted to what one might call the high arts as a form of entertainment for the affluent and educated. Tonight I want to make some suggestions that are different from that. I believe that if the Government looked seriously at the possibilities of the creative arts for employment and skill creation we could have a whole new area where young people and, indeed, people of all ages could be trained to work effectively in a satisfying way and in a way which is economically productive. It is this last point which might strike some honourable senators as being novel. Too often, particularly in the case of conservative governments, the arts are discussed as if they are nothing but a drain on the public purse. I suggest that we ought to start thinking about the arts as a significant and constructive part of the Australian economy, because they are. 
I present to the Senate some figures that might enable us to discuss the arts as an effective and important part of the economy. For example, an estimated $1,1 30m in funos is consumed by the arts. Only 1 3 per cent of that amount comes from governments. However, 86 per cent of that very large amount of money is earned income. The arts pay over $450m in wages and salaries, that is, about 1.5 per cent of the national total. The value of wages and salaries paid by the arts is comparable to that paid by agriculture and mining. Yet we never hear the Government speaking about the arts in this serious and very engaged way in which it talks about areas of the economy like agriculture and mining. Roughly 20,000 people are employed full time by the arts and another 100,000 are part time employees. Compared with its support of other industries, government support for the arts is not high. The Industries Assistance Commission in its report entitled 'Assistance to Manufacturing Industries in Australia 1968-1969 to 1973-74' found that in 1971-72 the clothing and footwear industries received government assistance amounting to 26 per cent as a proportion of their sales value; textiles received 16 per cent; paper and paper products received 19 percent and the arts only 13 per cent. 
Another important aspect in discussing the arts in terms of its employment creating potential is the fundamental fact that the arts are by definition labour intensive. Technological innovation will not change that, and this is a very important aspect. We are now as a society starting to appreciate the erosion of jobs caused by technological change. Whether in particular cases that is a good or bad thing is a debate for another time. But undoubtedly the introduction of technology has eroded jobs. Yet this area of the arts, in which technology has almost no role to play and which is labour intensive, is not being developed by this Government. Government support for the arts has largely been a matter of direct funding to the arts organisations. However, I suggest that the Government has a more constructive role to play in establishing a healthy arts industry. The growth of the arts is dependent on community awareness of and involvement in them. Without that they cannot become an integral part of community life. 
In 1977 the Australia Council and the Schools Commission jointly published the results of an investigation into the arts in our education system called 'Education and the Arts'. The report was very interesting and I think very disturbing to people who are concerned about the development of education and cultural life in this country. The report found that arts education in Australian schools is totally inadequate. There is an appalling lack of ans advisers at primary school level. The numbers range from two in South Australia to 53 in Victoria. In New South Wales there are only nine music advisers in primary schools or one per 2,400 teachers. Again in 
New South Wales, arts advisers must visit large numbers of schools. In some regions one adviser must cover 176 schools. These teachers must choose between short visits to all schools only once or twice a year or restrict themselves to more sustained assistance to fewer schools. Fewer than 25 per cent of secondary schools have subject masters for any arts subject. Because arts education is so inadequate within our education system, very few children are given the opportunity to understand, enjoy and participate in the arts. Those whose parents can afford it may get private tuition. 
Access to the arts remains, to a large extent a matter of class privilege in this country. Until the arts are treated as an integral part of school education they will not flourish in the community at large. An expansion of arts education would provide employment for teachers. I hope that the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  facing as he does the present situation of a glut of teachers and teacher trainees for whom there is no employment, will show some awareness of that possibility. We should be training arts advisers. Although specialist advisers in every art form for every school would be expensive, it would be possible to train advisers with multi-art skills so that one is available to every school. Skilled artists could be brought into schools to overcome existing shortages. Government employment training programs, such as they are, have not taken account of the needs of the arts or of their potential as an expanding area of employment. In every area of the arts there is a need for skilled people. These skills, I suggest, should be developed in Australia through government funding. 
In the area of the crafts, Australia suffers a serious shortage of trained teachers. Very little is available by way of crafts teaching or training at the tertiary level. There are virtually no courses within the education system to train high level craftsmen and none to enable people to reach master level. Australians who are talented and motivated in this area must go overseas to pursue craft studies. Of course some of them return, but some do not. There is a lack of teacher training courses in the crafts. There is very little conservation of craft products and there are no available training courses for those wishing to enter the field of craft conservation. 
In the area of literature, again there is a most unsatisfactory situation. I point out to the Senate that, if one excludes libraries, the literature in this country is almost wholly self-supportive. It is 99 per cent self-supportive. Yet the funding of trainee writers is negligible. The only identifiable amount for this purpose is $109,000 for 1979-80 from the Australia Council for the support of new writers and young writers' fellowships. 
If we turn to music we find that, as a whole, it earns 94 per cent of its total funds. It is true that opera earns only 39 per cent. The grass roots training in the performance of music occurs through some 9,000 private teachers throughout Australia. This is an unsatisfactory situation because there is very little regulation of the standard of teaching by private teachers. Musicians have difficulty in obtaining good quality musical instruments and in getting their instruments properly repaired. Clearly there is a need for skilled craftsmen in these areas. Training facilities should be established forthwith. There is no reason why Australia should not export good quality musical instruments as well as produce instruments for the local market. 
If we turn to theatre we find that 44 per cent of theatre funds is devoted to training activities. The bulk of theatre training is in dance. There is a large number of private dance teachers and a far smaller number of voice and movement teachers. Very little of the training, even in the area of dance, is professional. Full time drama schools operate at the National Institute of Dramatic Art of the University of New South Wales and at the Victorian College of the Arts. This represents the full extent of professional drama training in Australia, apart from a few part time courses and university drama groups. There is a serious shortage of trained drama teachers and unless we have a government policy to facilitate training there is very little hope of any more. 
Extending awareness of the arts within the community should be a matter of priority in any arts policy. The Government should embark upon a program of training community advisers. It should provide the space and facilities necessary if people are to become involved in the arts. Most arts companies and groups have a constant problem regarding basic business principles. Many, for financial or organisational reasons, are in a constant state of crisis. The relatively sudden- since 1972- increase in arts activities has not been accompanied by the necessary increase in opportunities for training, particularly in the area of administration. Training courses in arts administration would help to combat the tendency of arts organisations to founder through lack of administrative expertise. 
Conservation is a subject that has been raised in the Senate many times. The need for the Government to fund the training of conservators has been stated repeatedly. The Federal Government bears the responsibility of housing and conserving valuable national collections. The Director of the National Archives has described the need for trained conservation staff. Recently he told Senate Estimates Committee D that 1 ,750 man hours of work would be needed to remove the backlog of paper work alone. That is the requirement for only the 10 most-used series in the Parkes repository. The Government has seen fit to fund a $2m storage and conservation building for the National Archives. It contains seven of the most sophisticated laboratories in Australia, but the Archives has only one fully trained conservator, although there is provision for four. This year it is hoped to get two more, but the number available would still be clearly inadequate. The difficulty in obtaining trained staff is not surprising. Only one course is available in Australia to those who want to train as conservators. That course has only recently started at the Canberra College of Advanced Education. Attracting staff from overseas is equally difficult because the salaries offered are not competitive. 
The representatives of the Australian War Memorial, an institution of great historic and cultural significance to most Australians, have told us that, of 12,000 of its works of art, 9,000-or three-quarters of the collection- are in need of restoration. These examples are not isolated. The same problem exists in museums and galleries all over the country. Since I have had the shadow ministerial responsibility for the arts I have had an opportunity to visit regional museums and galleries and learn this at first hand. Important and valuable collections are rotting in basements all over the country because there are no trained conservators and no funds to import them. 
That brings me to the question of training in general. The Fraser Government spent nearly $ 1 billion on unemployment benefit last year. In the same year it spent $177m on manpower programs. The study group on structural adjustment criticises this imbalance. It said: 
The great bulk of public expenditure in Australia takes the form of unemployment benefits. These are essential. More emphasis, however, should be given to programs such as reallocation and retraining schemes which re-equip the unemployed for new and better future employment. 
Existing schemes, such as the Special Youth Employment Training Program and some general National Employment and Training System traineeships provide a flat rate subsidy which directs trainees towards low wage and secondary occupations. Approximately half the on-the-job training approved under NEAT is in the unskilled and semi-skilled areas and, of course, they are the areas in which jobs are disappearing fastest. The number of unskilled and semi-skilled workers already exceeds the number of unskilled and semi-skilled jobs. The Government should be funding programs which allow unskilled and semi-skilled workers access to formal skill training. 
The point of what I have been saying tonight is that the arts is such an area. The arts needs skilled workers. It is, as I have described, a constructive and productive area of the economy. It could become a great deal more productive. It could become a source of improvement in the balance of payments if the Government is prepared to address itself to the question in a creative and energetic way. The Government can increase the pool of available jobs by funding training in the areas I have mentioned and, of course, it would at the same time ensure the expansion of the arts which in turn would make more jobs available.  ( Quorum formed). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a first time. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I seek an amplification of the statement made yesterday by the Minister regarding the Committee of Review of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I would say in passing that I welcome this announcement finally and endorse the choices that the Minister has made with regard to appointments to the Committee. However, I ask now, regarding the process of the ABC Committee of Review, what steps will be taken to invite the public to participate? Will all hearings of the Committee of Review be public? Will transcripts of the Committee's hearings be readily available and free to the public? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
1 ) What countries, companies, agencies or other institutions did the Minister visit during his 'fact-finding' trip on domestic satellite use. 
What estimates of cost of: (a) television receival only; and (b) telephony in remote areas from a 20-watt satellite transponder; were given to the Minister by Canadian manufacturers or agencies. 
What volume of production was indicated in these costs and what indication of Australian content and manufacture was given by Canadian companies or agencies. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) Which members of the Government Working Group on a National Communications Satellite System have travelled overseas. 
What countries, companies, agencies, or other institutions have been visited by each of these members. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the official standing of the new guidelines for public servants which include, amongst other things, a provision whereby the permanent head of a department can appeal to the Prime Minister in the case of a dispute between himself and his Minister (see  The Age,  9 October 1979). 
Who introduced the guidelines. 
) Will the guidelines destroy confidence between a Minister and his or her departmental head and further centralise power in the hands of the Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 November 1979: 
1 ) When was Medibank Item 6299 (Amputation of the clitoris) included as an item on the medical benefits schedule. 
How many times has Item 6299 been used since its inclusion in the medical benefits schedule. 
What is the breakdown of the number of charges under Item 6299 in terms of the reasons for conducting the operation. 
Sentor Guilfoyle-  The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Medical Benefits Schedule item no. 6299 (amputation of the clitoris) was included in the Schedule from 1 January 1957. 
The number of cases recorded in surveys of medical benefits claims processed by Medibank and the major private health funds is so small that reliable estimates of the total number of times item 6299 has been used cannot be prepared. A reasonable interpretation is to say that there are probably less than 50 services under item 6299 performed each year in Australia that are the subject of medical benefits claims. 
Data do not reveal the reasons for the operations, but it is believed that most cases would be associated with intersex states in children due to congenital or glandular disorders. 
