I ask the Minister for National Development whether he can inform the House of any progress being made on the proposal submitted by the Queensland and New South Wales Governments for a water conservation project known as the Border Rivers Project on the New South Wales-Queensland border. 
I support the Bill and in so doing commend the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  for the way in which they have worked with the Australian wheat industry during what has been a very difficult time. I am pleased to note that the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has seen the light, because for many months he has been running around his electorate and the countryside condemning the Commonwealth Government for its failure to meet the needs of the wheat industry. I was glad to hear him say today that he supported the Bill because in it the Government was honouring its obligations to the Australian wheat industry. What a change of heart! In the few days that he has been here he has at last recognised that the Government has at heart the interests of the wheat industry - the interests of the small wheat growers as well as the large wheat growers. I have already told them that and they obviously believed me because I was returned from one of the biggest wheat growing electorates of New South Wales. I happen to be a wheat grower myself and am proud to be one. 
I was pleased to hear from the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  what one would regard as a reasonable and strangely responsible speech about the problems of the wheat industry. He did, of course, as the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  said, shed a crocodile tear or two in saying that he was sad to see that the loan money had to go to the industry in the present circumstances. The wheat industry has always been faced with an unpredictable world market situation. It is hard to simply adjust a formula to produce a tailored quantity of wheat to meet the world market. Seasonal conditions have always been a big factor not only in Australia but throughout the Northern and Southern Hemispheres and have tended to throw world trade out of balance. In this respect in the mid-1960s the world wheat trade situation looked promising. 
The honourable member for Dawson spoke of the application of quotas in Australia. As he well knows, the application of quotas to individual growers is a State government responsibility and not the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. Our responsibility, as was agreed upon with the wheat industry, was to guarantee the industry $440m for a crop of 357 million bushels. We undertook to guarantee this financial responsibility and at the same time we asked the States to work out, in their own way, a formula to apply to individual growers. Of course, there have been some anomalies in the application of quotas to individual wheat growers but in New South Wales, for instance, the Minister for Agriculture has set up an industry advisory panel under the chairmanship of a wheat industry leader to try to iron out some of the anomalies that have come to light as a result of the experience of the last 12 months. I pay a tribute to the wheat industry leaders who have had to meet a very serious problem of overproduction. They have had to try to put the brakes on production. 
The problem is basically one of world wide overproduction which has developed rapidly. During the years 1965 to 1968 Australia's export of wheat averaged 71% of production but in 1969 this dropped to 43%. The problems of the Australian wheat industry thus have to be viewed in a global context. As I said earlier, the position in the mid-1960s was one of no serious trade difficulties. There were low levels of world wheat stocks and shortages of supply in some countries. In the Northern Hemisphere there were crop failures in some countries, principally in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China, but today the situation is vastly different. The Soviet Union, which was a big importer of wheat is now an exporter. We have seen vastly reduced aid requirements in India, and Pakistan has developed from an importer of wheat to an exporter as a result of the green revolution that has taken place there. We have seen large build-ups of stocks in Canada and in the United States of America reaching almost record proportions. We have seen higher production in some of the eastern European countries. All of these factors have tended to increase carryovers of world stocks. Tn 1963-64 world stocks totalled 50 million metric tons. In the following year they were approximately 42 million metric tons. They were the same in 1965-66. In 1966-67 they had dropped to about 29.5 million metric tons. Then stocks started to rise slowly again until in 1969-70 they amounted to 54 million metric tons. In this period there has been a decline in world trade in wheat. This is what the wheat problem is all about. It is not what this Government has done on its own to create a situation. As a wheat grower I can say that wheat growers are getting sick and tired of hearing that we are to blame for this situation. At various times Australian wheat growers have had to try to increase their production to meet world requirements and suddenly there has been a slump in world trade. This is the situation in which they have been landed. 
In one respect I agree with the honourable member for Dawson who referred to the processes of diversification. The wheat grower faces the problem of determining what other form of production he will adopt. The wool industry, which is Australia's biggest industry, is in serious trouble and until we can resolve the problems of that industry, particularly the price problem, it will be difficult to get a balance back into wheat production without the use of a delivery quota system. Once again 1 commend the Government for the understanding way in which it has treated the whole question of wheat overproduction in Australia and I agree with the honourable member for Riverina who said that the Government has honoured its obligations to the wheat industry through this Bill. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, firstly may I congratulate the  Speaker (Sir William Aston)  on his reelection and on the honour that  Her  Majesty the Queen has bestowed upon him. I am sure that he will continue to enjoy the confidence of honourable members on both sides of the House. I extend ray congratulations also to the  Chairman  of Committees  (Mr Lucock)  who has held that office with dignity for several years. I should like to congratulate the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  upon his well prepared and will presented maiden speech. I also congratulate the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  whose contribution on abortion, I am sure, will be long remembered in this House. I congratulate him on his maiden speech. 
I note that some days have passed since two new members had the honour of moving and seconding the Address-in-Reply. I refer to the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown).  I should also like to congratulate them for their contributions to this debate. I know that the honourable member for Paterson brings to this House a long experience both in local government and in the State Parliament of New South Wales. He was Mayor of Gunnedah in my electorate for 18 years and was the State member for Upper Hunter for 8 years. Not many honourable members in this House have had the background of public life, both in the local government field and in the State government area, that the honourable member for Paterson has had. I am sure that he will make a very valuable contribution to this Parliament. 
In turning to the Governor-General's Speech I wish to express my satisfaction that due emphasis has been placed on the important matters of defence and security, our role in South East Asia and our concern to assist the people of Papua and New Guinea along the road to economic stability and nationhood. The first and foremost responsibility of the Australian Government is to ensure the security of our people. Whilst we must continue to support the United Nations and its principles in the hope that mankind will learn to live in peace and harmony, we must, in the circumstances of world tension and conflict, do all in our power to establish an effective defence preparedness. Not only must we maintain a national service training programme and improve the technical capacity of our weapons but we must also continue to strengthen our alliances with powerful friends and friendly neighbouring countries. These alliances will be strengthened only if Australia has the capacity and the will to honour its undertakings. Australia must continue to show her willingness to play her part in maintaining peace and stability in South East Asia. We cannot isolate ourselves from the problems of South East Asia and the need to develop some economic stability in the less developed countries. 
The 1970s are likely to be a period of great change in Asia yet, I believe, a time of great opportunity for Australia. We should be active, imaginative and positive, showing a genuine desire to help mankind live in peace, respecting human ideals and aspirations regardless of race, creed or colour. We must continue to develop our industrial and economic strength to achieve this purpose. I believe that we can look back with pride on what we have already done since the last war. This should give us confidence to go into the 1970s with hope and a will to build on what we have already achieved. 
Coming closer to home, I mention our very real responsibility in Papua and New Guinea. Tha House must welcome the special emphasis given to Papua and New Guinea in the Governor-General's Speech. The Government has clearly expressed its determination to take steps to advance the Territory along the road to self government and independence. May I say that I deplore the statements and antics of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  during his recent trip to the Territory. One could liken him to a bull in a china shop. It was grossly unfair of the Leader of the Opposition to try to make political capital while on his fact finding tour of Papua and New Guinea. It was grossly unfair to a fine race of people to set an arbitrary date for their independence, regardless of the wishes of those people, and to put impossible pressures on a people struggling to enter this age. I believe that this policy is washing our hands of our moral responsibility to them. No wonder that even the Pangu Party was upset by the Leader of the Opposition. 
It is in print. The honourable member can read it. No wonder we beard statements such as that from  Mr Toua  Kapena who is the Ministerial Member for Labour. He said:  'Mr Whitlam  has varied his statements to suit his purpose'. The attitudes of the Leader of the Opposition can be described as ill-informed, irresponsible and sometimes completely untrue. What an impression that is for the Leader of the Opposition to give these people. I believe that his political stunts back-fired. Honourable members can make their own judgments of this man who regards himself as the alternative Prime Minister of Australia. No wonder that our friend, Oala Oala-Rarua - who was a leader of the trade union movement in Papua-New Guinea - told the Leader of the Opposition when he was leaving Port Moresby that he had stirred up trouble and that he could pack up and go home. 1 turn to a brighter aspect and in doing so 1 pay tribute to the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  a man who has come in for some criticism in certain circles. It has been fashionable in some political circles to criticise a man who has approached his problems with great sincerity of purpose. He has been charged with one of the most difficult of tasks, that of trying to bring a fragmented people - 2¼ million of them with 700 different languages and dialects - into some form of cohesion. I can assure honourable members that on a recent trip to Papua and New Guinea I heard very great tributes paid to the Minister for External Territories by indigenous leaders. I am sure that there will be more people paying tributes to him than to the Leader of the Opposition at this very moment. Among the indigenous leaders are some very intelligent and able men. They recognise that they have tremendous problems. They do not want to be pushed into a situation with which they cannot cope. They have been searching for answers, and I believe that the Australian Government has been sincerely trying to help them find the answers. This was the impression that I gained from those indigenous leaders with whom I spoke. I believe that the decision to give the Ministerial members the day to day responsibility for the operations of their departments is a wise one. We have got to try to step up our efforts, as the 
Governor-General's Speech outlined, to help these people along their own road to nationhood. I do appeal to all concerned not to make a political football out of a country which has 2¼ million people who are struggling to enter this age. Surely their future is more important to the world and to us than the future of one or two aspiring Prime Ministers. 
The honourable member had his say on this subject and I listened to him with great respect. EarlierI said that in order to play our part in South East Asia and to have a sound defence structure we must continue to grow sound and strong economically. This means we must have a strong industrial base with a strong minerals industry and a viable rural industry - I mean by that primary and secondary industries in our rural communities. Perhaps one of the most serious economic problems facing Australia in this context is the difficulties of the rural industries. During the course of this debate a lot of emphasis has been placed on this aspect. I believe it is due emphasis. Of course, there is a great need to speed up our efforts to make decentralisation a reality in this country. I believe that we must continue to support our rural industries. They deserve support because they provide the great bulk of our export income. Today they are suffering severely from heavy cost-price pressures, international marketing difficulties and the drought which has continued intermittantly since 1964 and resulted in very heavy rural indebtedness. 
Although the great mineral industries and discoveries provide a new dimension in the field of export opportunities, the sustenance of viable rural industries remains a corner-stone in the maintaining of a healthy balance of payments situation in Australia. Too many people have been so overwhelmed by the rapid growth of our secondary industries and blinded by the glitter of the new found minerals that they are inclined to underrate the continuing importance to Australia of the rural industries and the country communities. The overseas earnings of the farm industries provide the funds which are necessary for the capital requirements and imports of the great industrial and mineral developments which are taking place in Australia. Of course, this growth has in itself contributed largely to the cost problem. The farmers have had to absorb continually these costs by increasing their productivity. In many cases they have increased production only to find that they do not have the markets to meet the increased production. 
I believe that the State governments as well as the Commonwealth Government must take steps to try to restrain the rate of cost increases in this country. To those who lament the subsidies and other forms of assistance which are being extended to the struggling farmers let me say that they are entitled to receive just compensation to offset the cost pressures which have arisen as a result of our growing economy - even if some of these resources are not necessarily being used for farm reconstruction programmes. We are living in a subsidised society. Some people seem to believe that the only section of the community which should stand on its own feet is the farming section, lt is standing at the end of the line and is unable to pass on its costs. 
The modest member of Parliament, using the 'Financial Review' as a medium for subtle anti-farmer support policies, is undoubtedly having an influence on certain sections of our community, but he is also having a curious effect on certain of our parliamentary colleagues in this House. One honourable member seems to have been uttering the same words in recent speeches he has made as the fictitious Eccles, the character who parades the columns of the Financial Review' as an economist. Of course, there was another Eccles. I think he was in the 'Goon Show'. The honourable member to whom I am referring wants to be careful that Eccles does not get up the hackles of the farmers in his electorate. 
The truth of the matter is that Australian farmers are generally efficient by world standards, but they are being burdened by cost pressures which have, in many cases, brought them to crisis point. I think the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  stated the truth of the situation in regard to the wool industry. A crisis point has been reached in the wool industry. Here we have a glaring example of an industry which has a great price problem as well as a cost problem. As a wool grower, I represent one of the largest wool growing electorates in New South Wales. 
I would like to point out to my friend from Currabubula that I know how impossible it is for a wool grower in my electorate to produce medium grade wool for 3 lc or 32c a lb; but these are the prices which the growers in my electorate were getting at the Brisbane sale last week. It is impossible to make a profit out of wool at those prices. The desperate situation which is obtaining in my electorate has resulted in the calling of a very large meeting at Moree on 21st March. I would not be at all surprised if 5,000 wool growers were to attend the meeting, which is to be held at the showground, to ask for a radical marketing change in the wool industry. 
Not only is financial aid necessary, but it is also imperative that we improve the efficiency of the transporting, handling and marketing of the Australian wool clip. The new wool marketing proposals which were announced by the Government provide the basis for transition to a more satisfactory handling and marketing procedure. 
Wool is a product for which there is a ready world market. We export 95% of this product. It yields us about $800m a year in foreign exchange. But it is a product which is not selling at 1970 commodity prices; it is selling at prices below those which were obtained in 1948-49. This is a ludicrous situation. We have spent millions of dollars on promotion and research. The Governor-General said that legislation is to be introduced which will halve the present levy imposed on wool growers for research and promotion and increase the Commonwealth contribution to $27m per annum. 
Although the honourable member says it is money down the drain, I believe it is a sound investment. There is no product in the world today which can be offered and sold on the world market without some form of promotion. We know that wool is holding its place in the apparel and textile markets, but at an unbelievably low price. If the world wants wool every avenue must be explored and explored urgently to ensure that a price consistent with 1970 basic commodity values is obtained. There can be no place for further procrastination and division within the industry. Decisions have to be made but they can be made only when the industry co-operates and approaches the problems objectively. 
The history of Liberal-Country Party governments has been one of putting into effect the policies of primary, secondary or any other industries, provided they are practical. The Australian wheat industry is a notable example. When the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation recognised that declining world trade was building huge surpluses of wheat throughout the world, it set to work to devise a policy to rationalise production so as to avoid the chaos which would have occurred had action not been taken to restrain production in some way. This year the industry faces further problems, and so once again it has come to the Government with a plan. This proves that this Government stands ready to act on behalf of the industry. So I hope that the Australian wool industry is ready objectively to assess its problems and to come up with a constructive plan which will take care of its long term future. 
Since it is of vital importance to reduce costs of production. I welcome the decision by the Government to set up a bureau of transport economics to analyse the economics of transport in Australia. I think that this is some of the best news contained in the Governor-General's Speech. Australia is a land of vast distances. The costs of transport are a big factor in the cost structure. Most of our rural industries and decentralised secondary industries and mineral industries are confronted with the high cost of transportation, lt is important that every effort should be made to reduce the freight costs on our products. This is an essential ingredient in any programme of decentralisation. I regret, however, that no move has been forecast to reduce the costs of telephone charges and trunk calls to rural and country town subscribers. This is an area where the Commonwealth could help substantially if&gt; alleviating the cost burdens on country industries and on people living and working in country towns - people engaged in primary production. 
The telephone in the remote area is no luxury, lt is a sheer necessity for country people in order to communicate and to transact business, but they are asked to pay a very high price for their isolation. I believe that insufficient effort has been made to reduce the costs of telephone trunk charges, in spile of the enormous capital expenditure on new techniques which should surely have resulted in some cost efficiences. It is high time that we had a proper look at this problem. It is ridiculous that it costs as much to ring Horsham in Victoria from Sydney as it does to ring Dubbo from Sydney. It is a crazy system that makes it as costly to ring Murwillumbah from Sydney as it does to ring Perth. The whole cost structure needs to be re-examined with a view to establishing a flat rate charge for all calls within a State, whether they be local or trunk calls, based on a 3 minute interval. Why should people be able to talk and gossip on a local call for hours on end when people who happen to be just a little outside a certain radius can get a trunk call for only a 3 minute interval? 
Added to this burden - and I have not mentioned the worst cost of all - is the cost which is facing some farmers in my electorate who are now going on to automatic exchanges. In one case in my electorate a grazier has been asked to pay $4,000 in order to be connected to an automatic exchange. I am sure that the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  will have more cases of this in the very near future, because although the present policy might help people in the closer in areas, it has been a disadvantage to people in my electorate. 
Very few people will argue against the need for decentralisation in our country areas. They will argue the means. But here are areas in which I submit the Commonwealth should be looking with a view to assisting decentralisation to eventuate. Not only is decentralisation necessary to stop the drift of young people to the cities, to provide them with job opportunities without leaving home, but it is necessary to ease the great problem of congestion and pollution in the cities. I believe that the GovernorGeneral's Speech has made a constructive contribution to the future of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr CONNOR (Cunningham)  TI 0.36]-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I add to those of other senior members of this House my felicitations to those honourable members who have made their maiden speeches. They are to be welcomed and congratulated.  1  listened with particular interest, however, to the speech of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  No doubt he spoke with great eloquence and sincerity, but the thought ran through my mind, as he gave statistics, whether, if a question were asked of the various people who admit to being victims of abortion, they would have carried the child had there been an adequate family income, had there been a suitable home, and had there been some sense of social security. After air, it is not yet the policy of my party that there should be legalised abortion. There is a line to he drawn somewhere between liberty, compassion and licence, and the drawing of that line will engender a very great national moral debate. 
To put the matter on sordid economic grounds, we need every child that we can get in Australia. If the statistics which the honourable member for Maribyrnong has given are correct, the immigration programme of which we boast - and rightly so - is a concealed failure because apparently there are more abortions than there are people coming into this country, after deducting the number of departing migrants. There is a case to be put, too, for marriage loans because today a young couple face this stark necessity. With inflation of land prices and building costs, young couples have the stark choice of either saving to acquire a home or having a family - they cannot do both. If and when we get adequate child endowment payments and a just wage and security for every worker, I think we will be entitled to have a look at the matters raised by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. Let me put it in another sense: The average adult worker in his working life of 44 years, according to the latest statistics, will produce wealth for this Commonwealth of approximately one-third of a million dollars. It well behoves the nation to give assistance to those people who are prepared to produce children. There is a case to be put for the yet unborn, and I commend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  for the magnificent article which appeared in the official Labor publication 'Radical' of last week, published in Sydney. 
Now I turn to my main interest tonight. In the Governor-General's Speech reference was made to the Government's decision to enact legislation which will assert and confirm the Commonwealth's undoubted right to the control of the products of the continental shelf. Of course, there has been an immediate and pained reaction from the various States but the hard truth is that this Government has only itself to blame because it has ignored the repeated warnings of the Opposition as to what the true legal and constitutional position is, was and always has been, that is, that the Australian national Government has the sole and the sovereign paramount right to decide what is to be done in the way of production of oil and natural gas in particular, the terms under which it is to be produced, the areas which are to be allocated to the producers and, above all, the ultimate price that is to be paid by the consumers. 
The Government, of course, has lacked and has deliberately refused to evolve anything in the way of a national fuel and power policy. Our greatest national asset is undoubtedly those oil and natural gas resources which lie under our off-shore waters, in particular those of Bass Strait. There is no country in the world which needs cheap motor transport and has greater use for it than Australia. No country is paying a greater price to get it, whether it be in sales tax, the inflated retail price of motor vehicles or the fuel which they consume. Three and a half million to four million motorists and commercial operators have an interest in the ultimate price of the petrol, the diesel fuel and the natural gas which will come from the off-shore oil wells. 
It is of interest to note also that the New South Wales Government has had to take drastic action. In fact, one might say that it is performing something like Solomon's judgment because it cannot decide the parentage of a transmission line for natural gas from Bass Strait to Sydney, Newcastle, Wollongong and other major industrial centres in New South Wales. The hard truth is that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd interests, Australian Gas Light Ltd, and the Australian interstate pipelines consortium have not been able to agree amongst themselves as to the price, the method of control of that pipeline or even as elementary a matter as the route of it, and the New South Wales Government has taken unilateral action. The State Minister for Mines,  Mr Fife,  stated when calling for tenders that he could not commit the Victorian Government and although the matter had been discussed it had not necessarily been confirmed. 
On the question of the route, the proposed one is undoubtedly the correct one, but let me remind the House that Melbourne got its first natural gas in 1968. Heaven only knows on what date in 1970 natural gas - which is the property of the people of Australia and not of  Sir Henry  Bolte and his cohorts in Victoria - will come to feed the major industries of the major State of Australia. Of course, behind the scenes there has been a tug of war between the State Minister for Mines, representing the State electorate of Wagga, the former Minister for National Development representing Albury and the electorate of Farrer and. of course, the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  and the area of Gippsland which he represents. The Minister for the Interior has won and the route is undoubtedly the correct one. Unless and until there is some decision on the price of the natural gas Sydney and the other major cities of New South Wales will never receive it. There seems to be some endemic form of economic myopia on the southern side of the Murray River. 
May I remind the House that in 1967, when natural gas was first discovered, it was discovered on an illegal permit and a lease issued by the Victorian Government with the connivance and the consent of the Commonwealth Government. As with all of these problems, the longer one delays and the more reluctant one is to grasp the nettle the more difficult and painful the ultimate solution is, and the chickens of this Government are coming right home to roost because the hard truth is that for reasons best known to the Victorian Government it chose to agree to a price for natura] gas in that State which was contrary to the advice of a certain  Mr Hetherington  - an expert engaged for the purpose - and to ignore the very deliberate advice of its own Gas and Fuel Corporation, and finally to agree to a price which was twice that which  Dr Alex  Hunter, a noted authority from the Australian National University, said was a fair and reasonable price to pay. Without burdening the House with the details, I point out that the truth is that in Victoria the wholesale price of natural gas is of the order of 3.6c per therm. That price includes the cost of production, after-treatment and transmission to the Melbourne City gate valve. In Canada the price of natural gas is 1.4c per them. In the United States - let it be noted that in that stronghold of private enterprise there is a Federal Power Commission - the price of natural gas is 1.5c per therm. In the United Kingdom for the first 100 million cubic- feet consumption per day the price is 3c per therm. For the vast residue it reduces to 1 .5c per therm. 
There may be very good reasons for what has happened in Victoria but the hard truth is that we have a most backward and most amazing agreement between the former Prime Minister,  Mr Holt,  and the present Premier of Victoria, which has been attacked as being illiterate and unintelligible. I draw the attention of the House to this masterpiece of parochialism and of interstate suspicion, rivalry and stupidity. The following is a letter written on 16th February 1967 by the Prime Minister to the Premier of Victoria. It reads: 
Dear  Mr Premier, 
Following the discussion we had regarding the disposal inter-State of natural gas from the discoveries of petroleum off the shore of Victoria, I believe we have come to the following understanding. 
We are agreed that Victoria should not be required to approve any transaction for the sale of natural gas inter-State which would have the effect of putting Victoria at a disadvantage in relation to that inter-Slate purchaser, having regard to the following: 1 Adequate reserves are available to meet contractual obligations already entered into. 
In other words, the supply of natural gas for Victoria was to be assured. No-one can take exception to that. The letter continues: 2 The conditions of such sale and their relation to sales already effected in Victoria: 3 The effect of the cost of transmission to any such inter-State market. 
For your part, you agree that, subject to the conditions stated above being observed, Victoria will not withhold consent to any such transaction. 
Your sincerely, 
Then, of course, there was the reciprocal letter accepting the terras. In other words, the position is that a State which never had the constitutional power to do so is still dictating to another sovereign State the price that is to be paid for natural gas.  Sir Henry  Bolte is playing dog in the manger and worse, because he is insisting that New South Wales is to pay the same exaggerated price, an entirely unrealistic and uneconomic price, as he has chosen to inflict upon the people of Victoria. Added to that, of course, is to be the cost of transmission. The whole rickety structure on which the legislation has been based in relation to off-shore petroleum has been destroyed by a recent decision in the case of Bonser v. La Macchia. It has been stated by  Sir Garfield  Barwick and  Sir William  Windeyer that Commonwealth jurisdiction in respect of the continental shelf commences at the low water line and extends to the outermost limits of the shelf. That being so all natural gas and crude oil is being produced on Commonwealth territory and it is the Commonwealth alone which has the power to fix at thegate valve - on the drilling platform in Bass Strait - the correct and fair price for natural gas. Until the Commonwealth is prepared to use that power New South Wales will not be able to get the gas to which it is entitled. This is a disgraceful state of affairs - one that cannot be allowed to continue. 
The Government has been warned time and again. This issue has been raised repeatedly by me and other members of the Opposition, including the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  We have never deviated from our claim - a correct claim - that the Comomnwealth has the supreme power. What did we find in this case where the Italian fisherman was prosecuted for some offence in relation to fisheries and the type of net he was using. We found creeping into court no less august personages than the then Attorney-General and the Solicitor General for New South Wales to ask the court not to adjudicate on the status or sovereignty of the 3 mile limit - the area between low water mark and what bad been conventionally and by a common error believed to be within the control of the States. They were routed and told in no uncertain terms by the Chief Justice that it was necessary to make that decision. They went out greatly discomforted. 
What does the Government intend to do? On the first day of this parliamentary session, immediately after the GovernorGeneral had delivered his speech, I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  what he intended to do about regulating prices. He replied that he would not disturb the existing price structure. The price structure is this contemptible, illiterate and unintelligible arrangement - a matter of an exchange of letters which has never been ratified by this House and by which  Sir Henry  Bolte for all time is to decide the price and the terms and conditions on which natural gas flows to New South Wales. That is not the limit of the Government's sins of omission and commission. There is an even greater sin. 1 come now to a gentleman who might fairly be described as subsidy Jack, because whatever he touches he subsidises. Probably the worst of his excesses was the fantastic subsidy he originally agreed to give following a committee of inquiry into the production of crude oil. The Prime Minister was not privy to that arrangement - he was not then Prime Minister - but having to face the possibility of an election in 1 968 he had stepped in and made the best deal he could. Instead of the agreed price - the fantastic price of $3.18 a barrel for crude oil - he put up an argument to the Esso-BHP group along these lines: Look, the McEwen price will last only until September 1970. After that the cat is out of the bag. The Labor Opposition is hot on the trail and you will have to accept world parity. I am putting a proposition to you - take a little less for the short term and we will give you more in the long term. Say that we guarantee that you will get world parity for the period 1970-1975. You know as well as I that there is over-production of crude oil throughout the world and that there is acute price competition. You will be well on the safe side and well protected. 
Of course, it was an abortive move in the sense thai the election for which the Prime Minister was preparing was vetoed by the Democratic Labor Party. Had he dared go to the country at that time the consequences would have been just as drastic as they were 12 months later. A Labor government will inquire into the exact extent of the resources of Bass Strait. I have it on reliable authority that the depth of the oil bearing sands and the permeable strata is up to 300 feet and comparable to the best in the Persian Gulf. Let the Government deny that if it can or if it will. Let it deny that the cost of production is between 50c and 75c a barrel. With Bass Strait oil coming on stream within the next month or two, at peak production there will be a flow of between 250,000 and 300.000 barrels a day. If you take the differential between the price and the margin of $2.06 which has been agreed on, the profits are fantastic. 
Let it be said that every credit is due to the Esso-BHP group for its initiative and the technical work it has don.e. Let it also be remembered that it had the advice of the best authority in the world -  Mr Louis  Weeks;  Mr 2£%.  He gave the group the correct lead and it had remarkably successful results. A benevolent Government has made the total expenditure on research, drilling, refining and transmission of oil tax rebatable. By the end of 1971 about $585m will have been spent on the Bass Strait oil fields by the Esso-BHP consortium. Let us look at the other side of the picture. Recently and conveniently, when it looked as though the matter of gas supplies for New South Wales would be warming up, this consortium, which is a pretty closemouthed consortium, suddenly discovered that in the Snapper field there was a little matter of about 3 trillion cubic feet of gas available, adding 50% to the known supplies. That is a total, I believe, of 9 trillion cubic feet, worth about $2,500m. It has been admitted that there is in the vicinity of 2.4 billion barrels of crude oil. So you can say that in return for an outlay of $585m there will be a return of about $8 billion. 
That is very nice for the people concerned but what about the consumer. What is his position to be? Already, despite the fact that a petrol price war is being waged and despite the fact that reductions of up to 10c a gallon are being given to certain consumers, the major oil companies, keep ing a straight face, are approaching the South Australian Prices Commissioner seeking an increase in the price of petrol, using the plausible story that it will cost more to refine Australian oil. Where does the farce end? What does this Government intend to do? Obviously nothing, because its political philosophy is a very simple one: If there is no profit in it, let public enterprise do it; if there is a profit, let it go to private enterprise. This is the biggest bonanza of all time. This is the golden handshake. It is a scandal that we will probe to the limit. The Government has been warned. It has to accept the responsibility for this dereliction. The present situation is disgraceful. There will be chaos, confusion and litigation and the ultimate result will be the defeat of the Government on this issue at the next general election. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hughes)  adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has he seen reports of a plan to destroy surplus wheat in Canada? Are these reports true? If they are, is his Department looking at the Canadian proposal? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that due to the serious decline in wool prices a mass meeting of more than 2,600 wool growers held recently in Moree voted unanimously for the sale of the entire Australian wool clip by a central marketing authority? What action is being taken by the Government and the Australian Wool Board to examine the reasons for the disastrously low prices obtained for wool? What action should be taken to restore profitability in Australia's greatest single industry? 
I rise to support the motion proposed by the Prime Minister and supported by the Leader of the Opposition and to express my own deep sorrow at the loss of a friend. 1 should like to express my sympathy to  Mrs McKellar.  their 3 sons and other members of the late senator s family. I had the honour of knowing  Senator McKellar  for many years and also of working with him within the Australian Country Party organisation in New South Wales for 17 years. I knew him as a man of great character, integrity and warmth. At all times he drove himself with unusual zeal and energy. On many occasions his profound common sense and wise decisions made a lasting contribution to sound and stable government, in Australia. 
Last year he had the distinction of being made a life member of the Australian Country Party in recognition of his long, loyal and valuable years of service to his Party. He served on the Central Executive of the Australian Country Party of New South Wales for over 20 years, having served as the State Chairman from 1957 to 1958 when he was elected to the Semite, where he served with distinction. 
The late senator was active in public life long before entering the Senate, having among other things served on the Dubbo Pastures Protection Board for a number of years, and as a councillor of the New South Wales Sheep Breeders Association. In 1964, of course, he was appointed as the Minister for Repatriation and as. such he worked unceasingly to help ex-servicemen with their repatriation problems. In 1966 he visited New Zealand to discuss and to sign an agreement between Australia and New New Zealand for repatriation benefits to ex-servicemen. We well remember the 2 occasions that he visited the servicemen serving in Vietnam, spending Christmas with them in 1966 and I think again in 1967. 
As an ex-serviceman, having served in the Light Horse as a captain and then as a major in the Second Australian Imperial Force, he was well qualified to work with ex-servicemen in the field of repatriation and he never ceased to visit the repatriation hospitals throughout Australia taking with him that cheerful, amiable, kindly and sympathetic personality to those suffering in the hospitals. The late  Senator McKellar  was a man of great public spirit; he was dedicated to the service of his community and he served his country in peace and war. But above all, he was an exemplary husband, father and loyal friend. He will be sadly missed by all of those with whom he had an association. 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service read the reported request by the Victorian trade union leader,  Mr Stone,  for the honourable member for Lalor to refrain from interfering in trade union matters? Is the Minister also concerned with the honourable member's activities, which could possibly lead to industrial trouble? 
I ask the Prime Minister a  question. In view of the reported Vietcong military aggression taking place in Cambodia, described by the Prime Minister of Cambodia, General Lon Nol, as 'an escalation of systematic aggression against Cambodia by the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese', I ask: Has the Australian Government had any request for arms to help Cambodia to maintain its sovereignty? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the low prices obtaining for wool on the auction market and of Japan's dominance as a wool buying nation, will the Minister on his projected overseas trip discuss with Japanese textile leaders the actions that the 
Australian wool industry leaders are contemplating to alter the present method of selling wool? 
-I rise to support the Bill to amend the Estate Duty Assessment Act which will provide relief to estates of deceased primary producers and provide powers for the Commissioner of Taxation to grant extensions of time for payment of duty. Before proceeding to support the Bill I would like to make some mention of the points that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  raised. I might say that he gave a very interesting, informative and statistical survey of the general problem, but I do not believe that his speech was a very powerful argument in support of the amendment that he moved. The amendment is badly worded in that we are told to take note that the House is of the opinion that the Bill is inadequate and fails to recognise the relatively small farms. Of course the purpose of this Bill is to provide relief for the average and the small farmer, because estates that have a valuation above $250,000 will not be eligible for some of the benefits contained in this Bill. I think it is ridiculous to say that the bigger you are the greater the degree of relief. In my electorate I would say - I think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  is conscious of this - that there would not be many economic farms that would be valued under $100,000. That valuation includes stock, plant and land. 
Most of the farmers in my area and most of the farmers' families, of course, will be provided with some benefits under this Bill. 
I believe that this Bill gives further evidence of the desire of the Government to ease the pressures on primary producers who are experiencing great economic difficulties as a result of falling prices, market difficulties and excessive cost pressures. Whilst primary producers, along with every other member of the community, can take out life assurance policies or enter into other arrangements to divest themselves of assets prior to death, these methods, and certainly the premiums, are in the main too costly for the average farmer to contemplate in his current situation. 
Admittedly taxation concessions can be obtained from certain estate planning arrangements but taxation concessions are of no benefit where taxable incomes are already quite low or non-existent. Thus some " relief from this form of vicious capital taxation was urgently needed for the benefit of bona fide rural producers. The first of these concessions provided in this Bill is the proposed 20% increase in the level of exemption applying to the smaller estates. I intend to outline these concessions to honourable members because the honourable member for Melbourne Ports did not touch on the degree of assistance that will be offered to the rural sector under this Bill. The statutory exemption will be raised from $20,000 to $24,000 passing wholly to the widow, children or grandchildren of the deceased. The exemption will be reduced thereafter by $2 for every $8 up to the value of $120,000. The same basis of reduction will apply to those estates which are not passing to close relatives but will commence from the exemption level of $12,000 and phase out at $60,000. This formula applies under the present law. 
The next major relief provided under this Bill is relief in the form of partial rebate of duty. This will be available for rural estates of less than $250,000. The rebate will be calculated as a proportion of the part of the duty that is attributable to the rural property included in the estate. The rate of the rebate allowable will be determined by reference to the value of the estate before the allowance of any statutory exemption. On estates valued below $ 140,000 the rebate will be 50% of the part of the duty, calculated by the process of apportionment outlined in the Bill, which is attributable to the rural property. On estates above $140,000 but less than S250,000, the 50% rebate will be reduced by one-tenth of 1% for each $220 by which the value of the estate exceeds $140,000. 
The next important form of relief is that the Commissioner will have power to grant an extension of time for the payment of duty in the light of any adverse circumstances of an estate. In the past the Commissioner has not had power to grant an extension of time for payment except upon sufficient security for payment. There was also the requirement that the whole of the State duty had to bc paid within 2 years. This extension of time will apply to all estates and not necessarily to primary producers alone. I commend the Government for this provision. There is also provision to ensure that estates of primary producers whose business has been conducted by family companies will qualify for the relief. Provision has also been made to ensure that the rebate benefits from the Bill will apply only to an estate that is comprised principally of rural property and earns more than 50% of its gross income from the business of primary production for the 5 years prior to the death of the owner. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said, this will to some extent eliminate the so-called Pitt Street farmer from the benefit, provided he has a mixed business and his income is derived from a farm or from other operations. 
This Bill brings further badly needed relief to the primary producers whose land values have soared in recent years, despite the presently comparatively low income earning capacity of their investment. The rise in land values has, of course, caused enormous rises in the assessable value of estates. There have been many cases where family farms have been broken up because of heavy estate and State probate duties upon the death of the owner. This double barrel shot at the families of property owners is scandalous. At a time when policies should be implemented to maintain and encourage economic units of production, it seems paradoxical that we still have estate duty on our statute books at all. This concept was stolen firstly from the United Kingdom, implemented in the various States and then in the Commonwealth by a Labor Government in 1914, supposedly as a means of obtaining revenue to meet the increased expenditure of the war. I would now like to read the remarks made by that wellknown man. the late  Mr W.  M. Hughes, when the Estate Duty Bill was introduced on 15th December 1914. At that time  Mr Hughes  was the Attorney-General. He is reported in Hansard as having said: 
I do not pretend that, in its present form, it ought to be permanent, though that is nol a declaration that probate, estate, or succession duties will not form a permanent part of the Commonwealth scheme of taxation. 
So we are told that it was not necessarily to be permanent, but in the next part of the sentence we are told that he was not prepared to make a declaration that it would not in fact be permanent. Of course, he was a very enlightened man, but not  as  enlightened as he was when he left the Labor Party and joined the Nationalist Party. So we trace the origin of the estate duty in the Federal sphere right back to 1914. Since then there have been some concessions, but none of them has ever reached the level of these concessions. 
The Bill brings to fruition some years of agitation by rural producers and their organisations for relief from the shattering and fragmenting effect of estate duty on the family farm unit. My own Party has been most active in its efforts to obtain relief from this burden. Indeed, it has been active in efforts to obtain the total elimination of estate duty. The previous member for the Riverina,  Mr Bill  Armstrong, was the  chairman  of the Country Party parliamentary committee which was set up to recommend way and means of progressively eliminating the burden of estate duty on rural producers. Estate duties and death duties are a most vicious and iniquitous form of property taxation. As I said earlier, they were introduced in Britain years ago to break up the large land estates. They no longer serve this purpose. Their effect on the family farm unit is destructive. Their application on the families of the deceased is bewildering and cruel at a time when widows, children and relatives would normally expect some consideration and sympathy from the State. 
Why should the family of a man - or a woman - who throughout his life made his contribution to the development and progress of a country and who has paid income taxes, rates, levies and duties throughout his lifetime, have the savings or the residue from the taxed earnings subjected to a further tax upon death? There is no moral justification for this policy. If it is a means of raising revenue, then let us look at estate duty in that light. It earns less than 1%  -  I think .89%- of the total Commonwealth revenue. I believe that other forms of taxation should be used instead of estate duty. If it is designed to break up large estates then its purpose is laughable. Most of the large rural estates and properties are owned by large public or private companies and estate duty does not seriously affect these holdings. The death of a shareholder does not necessarily mean that the company suffers directly or that the company has to dispose of the estate to pay the estate duty of the shareholder's family. 
It has always been an enigma to me that we have come to accept and to live with this form of taxation which was introduced in 1914 by a Labor Minister. I liken the application of estate duty on an estate arising from the death of one who has saved and accumulated his wealth in spite of taxation during his lifetime to a bird of prey that picks the flesh from the bones of a carcass. It is a cruel and wicked tax without any moral, social or economic justification. But I do commend the Government for providing this relief for an important section of the community and I hope that this is the beginning of the end of estate duty in the statute book of the Commonwealth. 
I wish to answer some of the wild and emotional criticism and charges made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  in what was a most theatrical and hysterical display last Thursday night. Among other things he challenged the Government for not having announced the individual farmers' wheat quotas. He said: 
The growers have not been told what they are expected to plant. 
He should know that the Commonwealth Government is not responsible for the allocation of individual wheat quotas. Surely he knows this. I am sure that he knows the truth, yet he attempted to use the forms of the House to confuse and to misrepresent the situation to the growers of his electorate. The honourable member's rantings and other doings have served to confuse the wheat growers and to cause confusion and despair among the wheat growers nol only in the Riverina but over a wide area of eastern Australia. 
We all know that the going is tough. We know that we are to expect a reduction in wheat quotas on this occasion. In my own electorate the wheal growers know that the delivery quota system was devised by the wheat industry in the face of a very serious drop in world trade, huge world wheat stockpiles and escalating plantings since 1964. They know that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has worked hard with the industry to obtain the best possible deal for them in what is a very difficult situation. They know that the Australian Government has guaranteed and financially backed every quota scheme with an enormous amount of money. Last year $440m was guaranteed by the Commonwealth to cover the first payment of SI. 10 a bushel. The honourable member for Riverina knows, I know and most of the wheat growers in my electorate realise that the application of the delivery quota system insofar as the individual growers are concerned is a responsibility of the State governments. 
In my electorate of Gwydir the growers also know that the honourable member for Riverina has tried to capitalise on the problems of wheat farmers. In September last the honourable member for Riverina came to my home town, Moree, and tried to stir up trouble whilst the second reading of the wheat industry legislation was being debated in the New South Wales House of Assembly but the then member for Mumimbidgee was apparently not the spokesman for the Opposition on that occasion. 
I am told that he was not there for the debate and that he missed the second reading debate, in which the Opposition was led by the member for Castlereagh. I believe that the Moree farmers were not very impressed by the performance of the then honourable member for Murrumbidgee, now the honourable member for Riverina. The political humbug did not go down in my area and 1 am sure that this political humbug will not go down throughout the length and breadth of the wheat growing areas of Australia. Let mc say this: God help the wheat, growers of this country if the honourable member for Riverina ever becomes the shadow Minister for Primary Industry because not once have we had a constructive suggestion from him as far as the wheat industry is concerned.  Sir, either  he does not know or he tries to confuse or to make cheap political capital out of a very difficult situation. I am told that he is running to form because last year he was involved in a long harangue with the State Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Crawford,  over charges that the honourable member made about venereal disease in stallions at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and the Wagga Agricultural College. But of course when the honourable member could not prove this he later watered it down and switched to venereal infections. This went on for some months. 
Then there was the spectacle of Wren wheat. The honourable member for Riverina encouraged growers to accept Wren wheat when the Australian Wheat Board and the Bread Research Institute rejected it as a recommended variety. In another theatrical display the honourable member even offered to serve a gaol sentence if the Minister for Primary Industry could identify a variety of wheat. In spite of its poor quality and its poor sales prospect and potential the honourable member tried to make political capital out of promoting Wren wheat. What about your Wren wheat today? Did it stand up to rust? Are you still trying to sell it to growers. Of course you are not. It is another heap of political humbug. What about your 50 million bushels of black market wheat? How do you estimate that there are 50 million bushels? You rush to the Press and say that there are. 
I wish to make my views known to this House and to my electorate so far as the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign is concerned. I see the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  shaking his head in despair. He, of course, is a signatory to the Vietnam Moratorium but has not yet had the courage to wear his badge. Let him wear it in Riverina. This man who had so much to say about the egg industry- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's Party 
Whip raised the matter of honourable members addressing their remarks to the Chair. I would ask the honourable member to do so now and I ask all other honourable members to restrain themselves and refrain from interjecting. 
Now that the honourable member for Riverina has come into the picture let me say that we heard him talk about the egg industry today. Never has an honourable member spoken so often on so many primary industry matters and made so many complaints or so few constructive suggestions to help primary producers as has the honourable member. I will leave him and deal with the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  who made a typical speech, once again not really answering the charges levelled by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr MacLeay)  and other Government supporters. We have heard not one word from Opposition members to show that they are concerned about the Communist aggression taking place from North Vietnam. This Vietnam Moratorium Campaign is, 1 believe, a further attempt to brainwash the ordinary decent people of this country against the desire of the Government and the decent people of Australia to protect the independence of a sovereign state in South East Asia. 
I want to draw attention to the insidious objectives of those who, behind the scenes, are leading the Vietnam Moratorium. Have those associated with this campaign ever sought to stop the North Vietnamese or the Vietcong from murdering the people of South Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos? Is there a Vietnam Moratorium acting to bring pressure on North Vietnam or the Vietcong to withdraw their troops or to get on with the peace discussions in Paris? Is there a Vietnam Moratorium acting in Hanoi or Moscow or Peking? No. 
The action of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  emphasises how fortunate we are that he is no longer in the Department of External 
Affairs. All Vietnam Moratorium efforts have been directed to weakening the morale of our people and the morale of those people who are setting out to try to preserve the independence of a non-Communist state in South East Asia. I would like to refer to a statement made recently by  Sir Robert  Thompson the British expert on counter insurgency. I know that honourable gentlemen opposite will not like to hear his remarks quoted. In today's Daily Telegraph' he writes: 
Had  President  Nixon not acted he faced the prospect that within a few months, if not weeks, Hanoi would control the whole of Cambodia. This not only would be a perpetual threat to South Vietnam, but also would prevent  President  Nixon from withdrawing more American combat troops. 
The article goes on to show that it was a necessary action on the part of the United States to try to preserve its position and honour its commitment in order to withdraw its troops by the announced time. What purpose would there be in withdrawing the troops from this free state and leaving exposed the free people to be tortured and murdered by those who have set out to do these things? 
Other objectives of those behind the scenes in the Vietnam Moratorium are to ensure that the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese are successful in their campaign throughout Indo-China, to undermine the support of the Australian Government for our allies fighting in the area and to divert public attention from the attempted Communist takeover of South East Asia. In order to mobilise public support they have adopted their current tactics. They have sought the support of genuine decent peace loving Australians. Some clergymen and academics have been sucked into the fold by the architects behind the scenes who are trying to destroy our efforts to preserve the freedom of these people of South East Asia. They have sought to give the appearance of popular support for their actions by organising mob demonstrations, disrupting schools and universities and, where possible, using the trade union movement to cause industrial disputes and unrest. In the last few days we have seen the wisdom of the silent majority within the trade union movement telling those associated with the Moratorium not to use the trade union movement for political purposes. 
Is the Moratorium spontaneous? Of course not; it is part of a world wide plot, organised initially from outside this country. Its origins go back to the Committee for International Co-operation and Disarmament. Who are its sponsors in Australia? They are the card carrying Communists, the Labor Parliamentarians who have become involved in this organisation and the leaders of some of the more militant left wing unions. Sadly, some decent freedom and peace loving Australians have also been caught up in this campaign. I know that in my electorate the silent majority of decent people who are well aware of what could happen in Australia if some of these people had their way will reject this insidious effort to undermine our role of preserving a democratic peace in South East Asia. Let us hope that their efforts do not cause violence, bloodshed and lawlessness over this next weekend. I pray God that this does not happen. I hope that this country will at the weekend treat the Vietnam Moratorium with the contempt it deserves - with the contempt that it should bring upon itself. 
My question also is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs. In view of the statements that have been made by the Leader of the Opposition and his associates and colleagues who support the Vietnam Moratorium can the Minister let me know the reason for the decision by the Governments of South Vietnam and the United States of America to engage the North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces in both the Parrot's Beak and the Fish Hook areas of Cambodia adjacent to South Vietnam? Secondly, can he inform the House in precise terms the objectives and purposes of these actions and whether the Government of Cambodia welcomes the joint South Vietnamese and United States actions? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. Owing to the high cost of trunk calls in country areas and its adverse effect on decentralisation of industry and on rural producers, especially as a result of the extended local service area zoning system, can the PostmasterGeneral give any indication as to the possibility of introducing a flat unit call charge for local and trunk calls within the States? What would the unit call charge be in such circumstances for trunk and local calls on a time basis? 
-! support clause 6 because it is one of the important clauses outlining the functions of the Corporation. Under the Bill the provision of finance is primarily to fill a gap which exists in the broad spectrum of financial resources available to enable an Australian owned industry to expand its operations principally for the export market and so assist in our balance of payments situation in the future. The motives have been clearly outlined by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  - to help structure existing viable industries on a world competitive basis and to maximise Australian equity. These objectives are to be achieved in a private enterprise environment and the terms of the Bill ensure that it will operate within the principles of the free enterprise system. This is not a Socialist measure to create a new bank. It is not a new bank. The Corporation will not have the privileges and purposes of a bank and will not function as a bank, as some antagonists have suggested. The limitations that apply in the field of banking do not apply to this Corporation. It will not compete with the banking system and certainly will not supplant the Australian Resources Development Bank, but I submit that it will1 tend to supplement or complement the role of the Australian Resources Development Bank. 
The broad functions of the Corporation under clause 6 will be to encourage the development and expansion of Australian industry, especially those industries processing our own plentiful resources, such as minerals - and I hope products of rural origin. I am thinking in terms of wool processing in the future - and to facilitate industrial development on a scale large enough to expand exports of an industrial nature on a world wide industrial competitive basis; to help earn foreign exchange and so assist our balance of payments situation which will need watching, according to the figures that have already been given to us projecting future requirements of foreign exchange into the 1970's. It will' help Australian owned and part-owned and Australian controlled industries to increase their scale of production, thereby reducing the need in some cases for heavy tariff protection. This should, of course, help to stabilise costs generally in our economy. If Australian industry can increase its scale of production by exploiting the world market opportunities then we should see more efficient industry needing less tariff protection and a consequent lowering of costs in our rural export industries, particularly our wool industry which of course is our biggest export industry and certainly one of our most unprotected industries. 
Australia, in ils present stage of dramatic development, is requiring a continuing and growing demand for capital. We are a capital hungry country. We have seen over $L000m per annum worth of capital inflow lo this country in the last 2 years, and of course this has brought with it considerable foreign ownership of Australian industry and a need to service dividend commitments and repayments into the future. But Australia is going to need a continuing flow of capital into this country. There has been a need for a long time to ensure that wc do retain in some way Australian equity in our industrial sector. In order to give some idea of the capital requirement of Australian industries, I quote the following figures: In 1949, $ 1. 090m was invested in- 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware of the recent decline in wool prices in Australia, the average price obtained at the Sydney sales being a little over 31c with the lowest clearance for many years? Is he also aware that some weeks have now passed since the Australian Wool Industry Conference recommended the establishment of a single wool selling authority to handle, market and dispose of the Australian wool clip? What progress is being made by the Australian Wool Board's Advisory Committee in its survey of the wool price problem, and when does the Minister expect a report from the Committee? Does the Government view the wool growers problem with concern, and does the Government appreciate the need for the earliest possible establishment of a single wool selling authority in Australia? 
In supporting this Bill I wish to acknowledge the dedicated efforts of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in trying to help the underprivileged and handicapped children and adults in our community.  His  sincerity of purpose should be an inspiration to us all. In speaking to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  I would like to say that he has shown his own lack of knowledge of the extent to which the Government and various organisations associated with handicapped people have been conducting an inquiry throughout Australia. 1 have in my hand a document entitled 'Demography of Disability' produced by the New South Wales Department of Public Health and the New South Wales Council of Social Services. In the preface to this book the New South Wales Minister for Health states: 
I would like to congratulate the  Commonwealth  Bureau of Census and Statistics for the penetrating study of these matters relating to the chronically ill and handicapped children which will be of great importance in evaluating our programmes for the care of almost one-quarter of our population who are affected. 
The people who are most experienced in the field of caring for the mentally handicapped are very grateful to the Minister for Social Services and to the Government for what is being done under the provisions of this Bill. I want to read to the House for incorporation in Hansard a letter received by the Minister from the New South Wales Council for the Mentally Handicapped, lt reads: 
It  is the desire of the Executive of the NSW Council to convey to you, on behalf of 65 NSW organisations we represent in the mentally handicapped field, our sincere thanks for formulating and presenting this Bill to the Federal Parliament. 
The benefits that will stern from this measure are virtually incalculable and cannot fail to give new heart to all groups, who have striven for so long to give handicapped children a chance to live as well as they cao. 
We do not intend to go into any detail or stress any special point. Our wish is that the Bill will be accepted in its entirety and implemented without delay. 
Our thoughts will be with you at the third reading and may success attend your effort. 
Another letter received by the Minister from the  Chairman  of the Aid Retarded Persons New South Wales states:  lt affords me considerable pleasure to advise you that at a meeting of the Society's Executive Committee held recently, it was unanimously resolved that, on behalf of Aid Retarded Persons NSW, I extend to your good self our felicitations and hearty commendation on the enlightened prospective legislation (the Handicapped Childrens' Assistance Bill) now before the Federal Parliament. 
As a society, we have good cause to be thankful for the financial assistance we have received from your Government by way of grants to help cover our workshops and equipment. Although it is unlikely that the provisions of this Bill will affect our Society, we recognise its worth to other bodies in an area hitherto largely unassisted. 
Please accept deepest thanks from myself, fellow members of the Society's Board of Honour.ary Directors and members of Aid Retarded Persons NSW for your efforts and, if we may add, your humanitarian and national outlook. 
The best informed people, those who are really doing the work of caring for handicapped people, recognise that this Government and the Minister are carrying out the necessary surveys, are undertaking the inquiries which are necessary and are bringing to this Parliament the legislation required to try to improve the lot of our handicapped people. This Bill will be of tremendous benefit to voluntary organisations and the States in giving assistance to our handicapped children. It is essential that those handicapped physically or mentally are helped early in life to reach a level of independence and become self-respecting adults able to play a productive role in the community. In the past, too little has been done in the field of care and these children have grown into fully dependent adults unable to live any sort of normal life and later have become great burdens upon the State, imposing strains upon the governments and private institutions. This, of course, results in great personal tragedy to the people concerned and to their families. 
Hitherto, child welfare has always been regarded as the responsibility of the States and the voluntary organisations, although the Commonwealth has been paying $1.50 per day as a subsidy towards the accommodation of certain handicapped children who are living away from home. But the States and voluntary organisations have had to bear the bulk of the costs and responsibility of looking after the handicapped children. This legislation, although it does not provide direct assistance to State governments, does assist the local governing bodies and voluntary organisations, and this in turn will give to the State governments the indirect benefits they have been looking for. This capital assistance to the States may not help the State of New South Wales as much as it will other States. The New South Wales Government has involved itself in a direct manner in assisting handicapped children, caring for State wards and providing school facilities and of course it will not be eligible to receive direct assistance. The point is that other voluntary organisations in New South Wales will be helped directly. We hope that this Bill will give a broad interpretation to the term 'handicapped children' so that it will include those mentally disabled because they are emotionally and socially maladjusted children. Many of them, if helped, will become adjusted members of our community. It is desirable that every effort be made to provide special schooling and other forms of care and training for emotionally disturbed children who may not need inpatient care in psychiatric hospitals but who will become serious problems to all concerned if they are not given special assistance at an early age. 
This Bill will give further impetus to the drive to cater far a greater number of handicapped children. There are an estimated 40,000 handicapped children in Australia. Yet, I gather from the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  that we cater for approximately only half of that number. Obviously this is not good enough but at least progress is being made. The terms of the Bill will free the States from some of the capital subventions to voluntary organisations and allow the States to assist handicapped children in other ways. Whilst the provision of capital grants for buildings for schooling and residential accommodation is vitally important the staffing of these institutions is of even greater importance. In this regard I am sure that the Director-General of Social Services will examine carefully every case for special assistance in the building of residential accommodation. This is necessary to ensure that the organisations applying for the subsidy have the necessary trained staff to cater for the children and, what is more, the capacity to pay the staff. 
At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that regional development continues rather than see the growth of undesirable large centralised residential complexes in the major capital cities. In this respect the New South Wales Government has established a consultative council on the intellectually handicapped with representatives from the major voluntary organisations, the State Departments of Social Services and Labour and National Service, employers and trade unions. The council advises on the development of a balanced programme of services for the intellectually handicapped in New South Wales. The prime objective has been to encourage regional development of social services throughout the State so that services for handicapped children are located where the children's families are living or to assist within the immediate region so that family involvement can be maintained with the needs of the children. There are 11 such regional advisory committees in New South Wales consisting of representatives of education and public health bodies and child and social welfare officers, to help guide and advise the New South Wales Government and local workers for the cause. These committees investigate all applications for subsidy and are able to achieve some rationalisation of service and the avoidance of wastage of resources or unnecessary developments. Use should be made of the expertise built up by the States and there should be a strengthening of local participation with a view to each proposed development being examined on its merits and to suggestions being made so that the best possible schemes are encouraged and a balanced development occurs. 
I would like to refer to the Westhaven complex in the city of Dubbo in my electorate. I think that Westhaven undoubtedly is one of the biggest complexes off its type throughout Australia in a country area. It is an example of what can be achieved by a regional approach with local participation. It is providing first class care for our intellectually handicapped at all age levels. It is in this regard that I want to pay a tribute in the national Parliament to the great work being performed by  Dr Brian  Dickens and the Board of Directors of the Westhaven Association, to the staff of Westhaven -  Mr Tom  McCann, who is the Superintendent,  Mrs Amitzbol  and  Mrs Wrigley  - to the teachers  Mrs Honfi, Mrs Wilson, Mrs Austin  and  Mrs Blakemore,  and to the Matron  Mrs Donnelly.  I mention these people by name in this national Parliament because 1 think that their names should be recorded because of the great work they are doing in this centre. 1 would also like to refer to the splendid work that is being done by the men and women of the whole district in supporting this great complex in the city of Dubbo. In 1955 Westhaven was established 1 believe in a small way in the Scouts Hall. As the demand grew, the facilities had to be expanded and this in turn created greater demand from handicapped people of all ages from a wide area. Today Westhaven, as 1 said earlier, is a very large regional complex able to cater for a great number of children and adults, both male and female, who are either physically or mentally handicapped. The growth of these services is due to the dedicated workers for Westhaven - the outstanding local public support, the support from service clubs and other allied groups in Dubbo and throughout the Central West and the support that the Slate and Commonwealth governments have given this establishment over recent years. 1 would like to give some statistics concerning Westhaven. This centre has a sheltered workshop employing 25 people, a farm hostel for 55 intellectually handicapped males, a day attendance centre for 14 children and a school hostel catering for 14 children. In addition, as an example of the co-operation that has been developed in New South Wales between the statutory and voluntary agencies, the Department of Education has established an OF school for 48 moderately handicapped children, some of whom are accommodated in the Westhaven children's hostel. Since 1964 the Association has received $28,728 from the New South Wales Government by way of capital subsidy towards the establishment of its hostel and extension of the school while the Commonwealth Government, through the Department of Social Services, has provided $41,877 towards its farm project and $18,674 for equipment used in its sheltered work programme. At present application has been made to the Federal authorities for further capital assistance, including $15,500 for extensions to the hostel and for certain equipment and $18,000 towards the extension of the sheltered workshop. Just recently the Association has entered into an arrangement with the Department of the Interior to buy land adjoining the hostel. 
One of the objectives of the Westhaven Association in moving to extend the accommodation at the hostel is to qualify for the application of the Commonwealth handicapped children's benefit. Last year the association made representations, through myself, to the Commonwealth Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  about the restrictive criteria under which the Commonwealth Government's benefit for handicapped children was granted. Tn reply to these representations the Minister stated that the requirements for the application of this benefit had been eased and as a result the Westhaven Association is now confident that when the additions to the hostel are completed it will be eligible for the Commonwealth handicapped children's benefit of $1.50 per day per child in residence at the hostel. I would like to thank the Minister for Social Services, who is at the table, very much for his own efforts in this regard. Within the last year the New South Wales State Government has made available a further 25 acres of land for the sheltered farm and this has been used to increase vegetable production. In recent weeks, as a result, the roadside stall which is stocked from the farm has cleared $800 per month and this is helping considerably to finance the project at least in part. I repeat that $800 per month has been raised. 
This regional development has gained much from the close links that have been forged between the Association and the Commonwealth and State departments. It is vital that this co-operation be maintained and even extended in the interests of the children concerned. There would seem to be some real value in the Director-General of Social Services making use of the suitable State administrative arrangements as they exist in New South Wales to offer consultative and advisory services and to investigate applications, as they come to the Minister's Department, for assistance under the new proposals. Such co-operation will be vital since compliance with State legislation will frequently be necessary. School facilities will be acceptable only if the schools receive certification under the Public Instruction Act, while residential facilities for children or pre-school kindergarten facilities require to be licensed under the Child Welfare Act of New South Wales. I do not know what happens in other States but this is the situa tion in New South Wales. Projects approved by the Director-General must, therefore, be constructed and staffed so as to offer programmes of care or training at an acceptable level. It will certainly be easier for a voluntary body to know that State and Commonwealth authorities are in complete agreement on its proposals. 
In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The Bill will reduce the burden of the State governments as regards capital expenditure and will thus enable them ... to apply their resources more effectively towards other work in this urea. 
Undoubtedly this is true. However, certain people in the New South Wales Government believe that considerable strain could d be placed on the limited resources of the States since the provision of operating costs on a continuing basis is at this stage of development in New South Wales of far greater importance than the initial capital cost, especially in relation to the operation of residential facilities. In New South Wales, where maintenance subsidies are paid to voluntary agency schools but are not available to residential facilities other than hospitals, in 1968-69 capital subsidies were less than $250,000 while recurrent grants to voluntary bodies amounted to more than $4m. So Commonwealth capital assistance without subsidies towards operating costs, especially salaries, will place a severe burden on State governments or, more often, on the voluntary bodies that have accepted the initial capital grant. 
Commonwealth capital assistance is nonrecurring. Operating expenses recur year after year and are constantly increasing. If States cannot afford to provide maintenance subsidies in the long run, voluntary organisations may find themselves over-committed. This could embarrass them or lead to refusal of admission except for those persons capable of paying heavy fees. By way of illustration I come back to Westhaven in Dubbo which in 1969 had a total income from all sources of $153,953 and a total expenditure of $164,835. Allowing for some adjustments in the accounts, the actual loss on the year's operations was of the order of $7,000. Although considerable assistance is obtained from voluntary workers the undertaking has now reached such proportions that wages paid to employed staff totalled $41,207 during 1969. 
Many voluntary organisations have not been able to develop the sources of income achieved at Dubbo and the loss on the operations at Westhaven, although totalling $7,000, is probably smaller than most other organisations would be able to achieve. This loss occurred despite tremendous local support and it is apparent that the need for subsidies on operating expenses is vital if progress is to be made by voluntary organisations in caring for our handicapped. 
In discussions with those associated with th-j Westhaven complex I find that their greatest problem in the future will be to find sufficient funds for day to day operations because, as I have said, the complex has grown and is continuing to grow quite rapidly. I think there is a clear case for the Commonwealth and the States to get together and try to assist by some form of subsidy with the running costs of some of the larger complexes. 1 hope that this will be done in the not too distant future. 
In bringing these observations to the notice of the Government I in no way detract from the soundness of the Bill or the value that will flow from it to all voluntary organisations trying to cater for our handicapped children. Undoubtedly greater contribution to non-recurring capital expenditure by the Commonwealth should relieve the States from this area of pressure and so enable a re-allocation of resources. But the high and rising costs of day to day running expenses need to be watched by Commonwealth and State governments to ensure that voluntary organisations are not too heavily overloaded in trying to carry out an essential service for the handicapped in our community. I congratulate the Minister on the Bill and, on behalf of the Westhaven Association, thank him for all the interest and assistance that he and his Department have given. What better contribution can we make to our society than to cater for those who are unable to care for themselves? I conclude by quoting from a speech made in August 1964 at the Copenhagen Conference on Mental Retardation: 
The best measure of true civilisation is the standard of social care of the citizens and, perhaps above all else, the manner whereby the community cares for those who, least of all, can maintain their rights and make their claim valid - the mentally ill and deficient. This is the true measure by which a community's progress and degree of civilisation can be determined. 
I believe that this Bill will contribute to that measurement. 
I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  on his maiden speech here this afternoon, i feel sure that he will make a very useful contribution to the national Parliament; in fact, a far more useful contribution than some of the honourable members opposite who seem to enjoy interjecting at a time when we are discussing such a serious and important matter. I have risen lo speak on this Bill because I regard the importance of the great Australian wheat industry very highly indeed and because I represent the electorate of Gwydir which is one of the largest wheat growing electorates in New South Wales, producing some of the best milling quality wheats in Australia. We do not have a problem so much of over production at the present time because n the last season we cleared all but 8 million bushels from our silos. This is because the wheat from northern New South Wales and Queensland has met a very ready market in the world and also in Australia. Owing to seasons, however - we do have fluctuating seasons in northern New South Wales - we have had a problem so far as the income of wheat growers is concerned. The seasonal factors, such as frosts and heavy rain, last year were the cause of more problems for the wheat growers in my area than the quota system itself. I regard it as important to ensure that the delivery quota system does not unduly restrict the production of readily saleable wheats. The New South Wales Minister for Agriculture,  Mr G.  R. Crawford, has endeavoured to write this into the wheat quota system for New South Wales. 1 want to congratulate the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation for writing into its submissions to the Government a provision to ensure that an additional 10 million bushels of prime hard wheat were made available in this year's quota. I think it is essential that we continue to regard this question of saleability as a very important aspect of this scheme. There is a further important factor to take into consideration both for Queensland and northern New South Wales and that is the question of the growers producing over quota saleable wheat that is sold and paid for before a cut-off date, which is currently recognised as 30th September, into the next season. The wheat growers are paid for it and it is not carried forward into next year's quota. Before go'ng on to the Bill I want to deal with some of the complaints raised by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  the shadow Minister for Primary Industry from the Opposition. He complains that the delivery quota system does not take into account the problems of the small traditional growers. This is what the whole quota system ;s about, to protect the small growers in this country from ruination. 
Rubbish, he says. If we had not introduced a delivery quota system we would have seen chaos in the wheat industry and the first ones to go to the wall would have been the small growers. This is what we have attempted to do - protect the small growers. This is what the Wheatgrowers Federation has attempted to do. Honourable members opposite should talk about coal. They should not talk about wheat. The delivery quota system has protected the small growers of this country. It has assured them of a small payment of SI. 10 per bushel for a quota delivery. The honourable member for Dawson said in this House some time ago: 
The Government has used the quota system to reduce production. This, in my opinion and in the opinion of thinking people, is not only unjust but is also inequitable. 
That is a totally misleading statement on 2 accounts. It was the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, the supreme body of wheat growers in this country, which in its wisdom decided on the quota proposals and the way in which the quota system is to be administered rests with the State governments which have undertaken to apply it to the individuals. That is typical of the type of statements that we have come to live with because of the political opportunities that honourable members opposite see in capitalising on a problem that we wheat growers have to face at this present lime. In March we heard the honourable member for Dawson make this statement in the House:  lt is obvious  than   the Government has lulled lo warn the wheal grower.-, the public ami the taxpavers in sufficient time of the crisis that has arisen. 
On 20th March 1968 the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said: 
There surely ure few growers who would not agree that the Wheat Boa id has done a magnificent job foi them in finding markets for the bigger and bigger crops that have been produced. That does not mean there is any ground for  complacency  World markets are neither unlimited in capacity nor unreservedly remunerative. In the last eight or nine months prices have weakened lo an extern that surely  msut  bring back to earth  those  who have held the view  that  there Ls a ready market for all we can product. 
So let nobody come in here again and say that the Minister for Primary Industry is the guilty man in the piece. 
The Minister for Primary Industry works wilh the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, with the Wheat Board- 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the rapidly increasing applications for financial assistance from farmers to the Rural Reconstruction Board in New South Wales, it is my understanding that the Board has no further funds available. Has the Prime Minister received an application from the Premier of New South Wales for further loan funds? Would the Commonwealth favourably consider such an application from the New South Wales Government to help those farmers in necessitous circumstances to carry on? 
Firstly, I want to say that I support the broad objectives of the Bill. It provides for new arrangements for the financing of wool research and promotion, the granting of greater powers to the Minister for Primary Industry to control wool research funds and to widen the borrowing powers of the Australian Wool Board to enable it to renovate and to rebuild wool stores under its control. (Quorum formed.) The broad objectives of the Bill, as I outlined earlier, are to provide new arrangements for the financing of wool research and promotion, for the granting of greater powers to the Minister to control wool research funds and widen the borrowing powers of the Australian Wool Board, to renovate and rebuild the 280 wool stores under its control, to construct, equip integrated wool selling complexes and also to effect changes in the manner of selection of the  chairman  of the Australian Wool Board and the 3 members with special qualifications. 
Before proceeding I would like to reply to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who felt that it was a strange time for the Government to be introducing this Bill, when the wool industry is in the process of negotiating with the Government the establishment of a single wool selling authority. Those negotiations are under way. Certain provisions of the Bill will fall in with the general concept as outlined by the industry. Whilst the wool industry is in a desperate economic situation, with the lowest wool prices for over 20 years, never before has the Australian Government Worked more closely or shown more incli nation to assist the wool industry. It is to the credit of the Minister that he has endeavoured to meet representatives of the industry to resolve these problems. No responsible government should allow this great industry, the greatest export industry in Australia, to become a peasant industry. 
I agree with other speakers that action has to be taken urgently in consultation with the industry to ensure that the maximum number of wool growers survive. The industry is caught up in a cost - price squeeze. It grieves me to read statements such as that reported to have been made by  Mr Hawke  in the 'Financial Review' of 19th February. The article reads: 

 Mr Hawke said that he did not deny that some farmers were in financial trouble, but these were almost solely small and inefficient marginal producers. 
To assist these farmers the Government had to rid itself of its 'grab bag' rural support measures, and tackle the problem of adjustment. 
He was critical of the rural policies of all the major parties, including the ALP.  Mr Hawke  said he was not sure to what extent the whinge about the cost-price squeeze affected wage judgments, but the state of agriculture was still afforded considerable emphasis by the Arbitration Commission. 
He went on to contend: 
The cost price squeeze argument 'amounted to little more than a plea for maintenance of a rural production structure which includes a substantial number of inefficient marginal producers without whom we would all be  beter  off'. 
Can the Minister for National Development report to the House the progress of the investigation into the proposed Pikes Creek Dam which has been supported jointly by the New South Wales and Queensland governments and which is to be constructed with Commonwealth financial assistance under the national water resources programme? 
The Minister for National Development will be aware of the numerous times that my colleague, the honourable member for Maranoa, and I have waited upon him requesting the Commonwealth Government, under the national water resources programme, to assist the governments of New South Wales and Queensland financially in the construction of the Pike Creek dam. Because of the delay that has occurred in making a decision- 
On Tuesday night the House was subjected to a 65-minute speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who once again reached into the depths of his bag of political tricks in a further desperate bid to reach his pinnacle of power.  His  resort to clever phrases and smart cliches will fail to woo the majority of the perceptive Australian people.  His  prime objective is to destroy this elected government of the people by using every device available - by using  Mr Hawke  and the left wing of the trade union movement and by using strike action for political purposes. I am told that inciting the unions to strike against the Budget cost the workers of this country about $5m. He is also inciting demonstrations which, of course, lead to disorders. Yet, in typical fashion, the Leader of the Opposition dismissed the great problems facing the primary industries and the rural community of this country in about 30 seconds with a simple phrase - the need to restructure the rural industries. 
As usual we are heating and will continue to hear throughout the course of this debate a barrage against the Budget. This is traditional. No-one likes Budgets. No-one likes taxes but we like handouts so long as we do not have to pay for them. This Budget has been described rather limply and inaptly by the Press and other people as being a 'give and take' Budget. Of course, one could describe any budget this way. But let us face it: No-oneI am sure would have liked the job of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  of framing this Budget which had to restrain the inflationary pressures that were existent in the economy yet increase aid to rural industries by 55%, provide finance for the new health scheme which will bring tremendous benefits to the community throughout Australia, provide for an increase in education by 25% and yet relieve the lower and middle income groups of taxation to the extent of $280m in a full year. 
Before proceeding with my own subject I would like to answer a criticism that I deplored from the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who made an unwarranted, and I believe, personal attack upon the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  last night. I believe this attack displayed the degree to which the honourable member for Hume hurt honourable members oposite by stating the truth of the situation. The honourable member for Hume said that he was concerned by the politically motivated disorders, strikes and industrial action which were having an unbearable, harmful effect upon the farming community in his electorate and were contributing to some of the difficulties that were being experienced in the rural sector. 
As one would expect, I intend to deal principally with the economic difficulties facing the rural community. I refer here not only to the farmers and graziers but to the townsfolk and the people who are directly dependent on wealth and prosperity in the farming industries. In coming to grips with the problem, one has to define the causes of the problem before applying measures to meet the needs of the ailing rural sector. What are the causes of the problem? Firstly, the problem has been caused by the widespread drought which has ravaged great parts of Australia since 1964. Secondly, there are the market difficulties for many of our products, for example wheat. Thirdly, we are faced with the low prices obtaining on world markets for many of our export products, principally wool. Fourthly, there is the high costs of production in relation to these prices. 
The current drought, as I have said, has ravaged parts of Australia including practically the whole of Queensland for the last 7 years. This has been the case with Western Australia, South Australia, New South Wales and indeed all of the States at some stage or another since 1964. The drought has undoubtedly been one of the worst since the turn of the century, lt is more than coincidental that the net farm indebtedness in the rural sector of the economy has risen from $195m to $1037m between 1963 and 1969, an increase of 600% in 6 years. These seasonal adversities and droughts have reduced the cash flows of most farmers in the areas concerned and have added enormously to the cost of production in these regions. 
One point worth mentioning about the enormous drought that has extended over such a wide area of Australia is that the losses in stock - sheep and cattle - has been surprisingly low. 1 think that this is due to the tremendous efforts that the Commonwealth and the State governments have made in trying to assist the farming community with freight concessions in moving sheep to and from agistment and bringing fodder to the farmer. So far I think the Commonwealth has allocated over $100m to the States to help them with their drought relief programmes. I believe that without this assistance we would have seen the stock population:; - the sheep and cattle populations - of Australia decimated and we would probably have had to wait 9 or 10 years, as has been the case in the past, for a recovery. 
I want to congratulate the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and all the State Ministers for Agriculture who met recently at an Australian Agricultural Council meeting for agreement to the establishment of a national drought advisory committee which will co-ordinate the allocation of the resources of the States and the Commonwealth to help ease the effect of drought. The ad hoc measures of the past have been wasteful in many cases and often ineffective. They have not always reached those in most need and have not always been in the best interests of the country. I believe that this advisory committee will be tremendously helpful in making a proper allocation of these resources to help mitigate the effects of future drought. 
The second symptom of the problem is the market difficulties for many of our products. This, of course, has been dealt with at great length in this House. Whilst many of our products fall into this category for a variety of reasons, for example tariff and trade restrictions overseas, wheat is the product that is probably the most severely affected by falling overseas trade due to world over-production. There is no need for me to traverse the reasons for the responsible decisions made by the wheat industry and the Government in devising a formula to try to overcome this problem. This is a matter of history. Nevertheless the delivery quota system for wheat has reduced confidence and is creating limitations upon growers to obtain recompense for their financial losses that have arisen from drought. If Great Britain joins the Common Market without regard to our trade opportunities then other products will be severely affected. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  has clearly warned us of the great dangers that exist in world trade. I hope the member nations of the General Agreement on 
Tariffs and Trade listen to the responsible call that the Minister made to them to try to prevent a situation that haunted the world in the 1930s. 
The third symptom of the problem facing the rural industry is one of low prices for many export products, especially for wool which has compounded the total rural problem and has given rise to a loss of confidence in the rural industries' ability to recover when seasonal conditions improve. Whilst efforts have been made to improve the handling, presentation and marketing techniques for Australia's most important export product to improve the net return to growers, one would be unduly over-optimistic to expect any of these measures dramatically to lift the world price for wool. This is not to say that we cannot improve the price. However, no further time can be lost in putting into effect measures to bring the marketing of the wool clip into the 20th century. I believe that today we sell or dispose of our wool clip. We do not actually market it. I believe that the establishment of an Australian wool marketing authority independent of the Australian Wool Board and under the management of top men chosen because of their proven commercial, technical and financial judgment will result in a new confidence and a higher level of prosperity in this industry. I was pleased when the Treasurer announced that this matter was receiving urgent consideration by the Government. 
This body should have the power to arrange the sale rosters, to regulate the flow of wool onto the auction market, to negotiate big lot sales of wools not submitted for auction and to have some of the burry inferior types of wool semi-processed in Australia on behalf of the growers. The body should have power to supervise generally the operations of the wool selling complexes and to encourage labour saving methods in the marketing of the clip. It should ensure that any benefits derived as a result of research into core testing, objective measurement and other research are actually transferred to the Australian wool growers. However, I do believe that it is absolutely important that this board of management be run on a commercial basis and be given the degree of flexibility that will be needed to operate the authority. I would hate lo see this authority bound by rigid legislative controls. It will need legislative backing, but to tie it too tightly with legslative controls could render the board ineffective in the job that would be expected of it. 
In association with the Wool Board and the International Wool Secretariat, the authority should encourage market research to find new markets for Australian wool in the Northern Hemisphere and in the developing countries. It appears that a disproportionate amount of attention is given to expanding our markets in the traditional areas - the United Kingdom, Europe and Japan. This applies to most of our products, but especially to wool. We are selling 77% of our wool to these areas. Because of higher standards of living in these areas and because people are inclined to use less warm clothing and have more air conditioning, we will probably see a reduction in the total usage of wool there. For these reasons it would appear that the potential growth for wool consumption will be in the Northern Hemisphere, in the Communist bloc countries and in the developing countries. These are the areas to which we must direct our attention as an outlet for wool. 
The fourth symptom of the problem is cost. This has to be considered in relation to falling export prices, lt is a factor which adds to the burden on the rural producers. The Australian farmers, who are efficient by world standards, have performed remarkably well in increasing their productivity to counter rising costs. However, when costs exceed an annual rise of over 2% for a sustained period, associated with large falls in prices for the end product, the ingenuity of the farmer cannot be expected to cope with the situation. No other industry in this country is put to such a test. Over the last 10 years there has been a steady worsening in the terms of trade for the Australian farmer. The level of prices is no higher than it was in 1960-61 but farm costs have increased at an average rate of  2i%  per annum, which is 25% compounded. The ratio of prices received to prices paid has fallen from 100 lo 84 since 1960. During the same period the consumer price index has increased from 100 to 120. Let us take wool prices. In May last year the price for wool averaged 40.96c per lb. In May this year it had fallen to 32.46c per lb and has fallen dramatically since then. I would say that the fall is over 30% in the period of IS months. 
Let us consider the causes of the rising cost problem, bearing in mind that the level, of cost increases in this country is probably one of the lowest in the Western world. The cause of our problem is the sum total of the pressure of resources - heavy annual investments by the private and public sector and overseas expenditure. Public expenditure increased by 10% in the last 12 months. This was due to the demands that were placed on local governments, State governments and the Federal Government for more services, more schools, more hospitals and more housing, etc. The heavy capital inflow that has been surging at a rate of about $ 1,000m a year is another cause of rising costs. The other factors are the high levels of consumption generated by the high wages and salaries that are paid; the present rate of immigration which imposes further pressures and demands; the degree of protection accorded the secondary industries, protecting their costs of production from overseas competition and protecting the high levels of employment; and, another factor not often mentioned, the fixed exchange rate which is creating an unrealistic, insulated, high internal cost structure and inflation. I pose this question: Why do we not free our exchange rate as Canada has done, just to see where the Australian dollar actually rests? 
In summary one could say that our cost structure is the result of the growth economy demanded and enjoyed by the overwhelming majority of the Australian people. Surely this justifies the Country Party and the Government in extending the policies that they have extended to help compensate the rural sector to some extent for these pressures, lt justifies the 55% increase that was allocated to the farm sector in this year's Budget. What troubles me most in the current situation are the rural indebtedness and the difficulties facing farmers in trying to restore their financial position. It has been said that farm readjustment or farm amalgamation is the answer. Whilst there is a need for farm readjustment and whilst there are units of production too small to be regarded as viable, recons ruction of the unit of production does not provide the total answer. The family farm concept in Australia has tremendous merit. It has enormous economic and social advantages and lies at the base of the efficient structure of rural industry in Australia. I agree that a measure of reconstruction is necessary in every rural industry, but how advocates of this policy can accept the continued application of Federal probate duties and State death duties I will never quite understand. These duties strike at the very viability of the economic structure of the family farm unit. To attempt any policy of reconstruction in our rural sector and leave the probate and death duties in the statute book would be quite illogical, to say the least. 
The most urgent requirement facing the Commonwealth and State governments is the reconstruction of the indebtedness of the rural producers. I believe that the banking structure with all its instrumentalities and departments - the Commonwealth Development Bank established in I960, the Term Loan Fund established in 1962, the Farm Development Loan Fund established in 1966, and the private trading banking system with its overdraft system of lending - does not really provide the rural industries with the machinery necessary to recover from the crisis that faces them at the present time. The most important requirement of the farmers and graziers, large and small, who have been slugged by drought, wheat quotas and low prices is the provision of long term low interest rate finance to enable them to rehabilitate and to recover. The length of terms for repayment and interest rates are the key considerations in any plan to rehabilitate the farming and grazing communities over a wide area of Australia. 
In 1938 the Banking Commission pointed to the need for a mortgage bank to provide long term low interest rate finance with up to 35 years for repayment. This facility exists in the United Kingdom, in South Africa and in many other countries, but the notable absence of such a facility in Australia leaves an unaccountable vacuum in the lending structure, especially when large areas of Australia can be subjected to 6 or 7 consecutive years of drought. T believe as a matter of urgency that this needs to be studied in depth with a view to arriving at a formula that will help farmers and graziers who have the capacity to recover to consolidate their debts so as to rehabilitate them and to reorganise their investments - either to leave the industry or to diversify their activities to meet the fortunes of the changing market place. I note with pleasure that the Treasurer announced in his Budget Speech that the Government was considering this as a matter of urgency. Perhaps the medium for providing long term subsidised interest rate loans should be the Farm Development Loan Fund or the Development Bank. This, of course, may necessite the re-chartering of the Development Bank. What the present situation does point up is that a gap exists in the lending structure of this country. 
In the long term, efforts must be made by the Commonwealth Government to provide an instrumentality such as an agricultural mortgage bank to ensure that better facilities exist for fixed and long term lending. In 1938 the then Treasurer, Lord Casey, introduced the Commonwealth Bank Bill to establish a mortgage bank to fill a gap in the banking structure which was found to exist as a result of the Royal Commission on Banking in the 1930s. The war years and subsequent events saw the demise of this facility. However I believe that the situation of the 1970s parallels in some way the situation of the 1930s in the rural sector and facilities must now be made available for fixed and long term lending to the rural sector or we will witness a great economic disaster among farmers and in the business sector. 1 say this because of the great difficulties facing rural industries and the great need for re-organisation, diversification and re-adjustment to re-structure the rural industries to meet future economic challenges. This will require great sums of long term low interest rate finance. The present lending facilities with high and variable interest rates available through the overdraft system from the private trading banks, pastoral finance houses and hire purchase companies give little hope to those small and substantial graziers and farmers who are already heavily in debt and facing long term difficulties in recovery. In 1938 Lord Casey, in his second reading speech on the Commonwealth Bank Bill, said: 
Non-government  instrumentalities showed some reluctance  to  lend money in rural areas. As the main reason for this reluctance Lord Casey said: 
If  a borrower fails to meet his obligations there may be difficulty in realising on the security. 
Surely this situation must be worrying the banking system today. I quote further from Lord Casey's speech because he pointed to a situation then that exists now. He said: 
Many country borrowers on this account have had to resort to accommodation by way of overdraft from trading banks and from pastoral houses. Such overdrafts are nominally repayable on demand but in many cases they are granted with the knowledge that they may not be fully repaid for several years. 
The Liberal-Country Party Government of the day uncovered this defect in the system and moved to fill the gap. But, of course, the facility then established has since disappeared. The mortgage bank was designed to remove hardships from the borrowers and to cheapen credit with a lending organisation which private institutional lenders could not be expected to provide. A mortgage bank would not duplicate the existing facilities but would supplement those that exist to provide fixed and long term lending. A mortgage bank could be created by private capital, subscribed by a consortium of lending institutions as a separate unit of business; by a new company with capital provided by the public; by an institution, the capital being provided by the Government, the Commonwealth Bank and Stale banking instrumentalities; or by capital provided partly by a combination of the institutions named and partly by private investors. 1 believe that the funds could be raised for the purpose of a mortgage bank by issuing debentures or stock secured on the general assets of the Commonwealth Bank. The payment of interest on the debentures and stock could be guaranteed by the Commonwealth Bank. Certain other measures, such as taxation concessions to exempt the interest on these securities from income tax. and exemptions from stamp duty and other taxes should encourage investment of capital into such an institution. 
Provided sufficient incentive advantages were extended, securities issued for the purposes of a mortgage bank should find ready acceptance at reasonable rates of interest, enabling borrowers to borrow on long term at lower rates of interest. This bank could undertake the heavy task of rural reconstruction, rural re-organisation and rural rehabilitation on the security of a mortgage over land and capital assets. I believe that it could assist also in home building, in the purchase of land for housing and for other purposes approved either by the institution or by the bank. I bring this concept before the House not as an immediate solution to the great problem facing the rural industries but as one which, I believe, is worthy of immediate consideration by the Government. Such a bank was established and allowed to collapse but the situation is so serious today that these measures need to be looked at again with a view to finding the right answer. 
Before concluding 1 want to comment on one defect that I believe exists in the Budget. This is the failure of the Commonwealth Government to recognise the great problem that is facing local government today. Unless a combined effort is made by the Commonwealth and State governments to assist the needs of local government, impossible pressures will fall on the shoulders of ratepayers throughout Australia. The rate burden falls disproportionately on a minority section of the community, rates having risen by 840% since 1947 while the consumer index has increased by 166%. The whole structure of local government will fail its purpose unless measures are taken to assist local government to play its part in the provision of the essential domestic services of the people. Whilst the Budget was framed to stabilise the inflationary pressures on the economy and to fulfil the election promises of the Government I believe that the matters I have raised demand the urgent consideration of the Government to restore confidence in the vast and productive rural areas of Australia which produce 93% of our food requirements and more than half of ou&gt; export income. 
1 direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the serious drought situation in northern New South Wales and the approach made by the New South Wales Premier to the Commonwealth for financial assistance, can the Prime Minister give any information additional to that given to the honourable member for Cowper last week as to the extent to which the Commonwealth may help New South Wales in drought relief measures? 
 Mr Speaker,  as a member of the Australian Country Party, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I start by saying that brevity is the soul of wit. Therefore, I support the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  I believe that unless a member of this House can establish his argument from the back bench in 20 minutes he is not equipped to be a member of this House. I believe that a lot of time is wasted in this place by speakers trying to acquit themselves by talking out their allotted time. I consider that this amendment will give more members a chance to participate in a debate in a specified time. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon). 
in view of the growing net indebtedness of rural producers and the consequent effect on the business sector in rural towns, can the Minister for Primary Industry give any indication as to when he and the Government will discuss with the State governments the matter of rural debt reconstruction? Will the Minister expedite examination of the feasibility of providing long term low interest rate finance to help in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of rural industries suffering from prolonged drought, low prices and market difficulties? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen the report in today's Sydney Morning Herald' under the heading New Wool Sale Plan'? Can the Minister give any indication as to when the Government will make a decision on the statutory marketing authority in line with its announced intention to examine all aspects of the proposal and operation put to it by the industry with a sense of urgency? Is hd aware of the dangers in delaying the Government's decision, thereby resulting in speculation and a lack of confidence in the industry and in the wool trade? 
Once again we have been treated to the familiar cries and wails of woe from members of the Opposition, especially the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  who says, of course, that not enough money is expended on education. The other day he said that not enough money was spent on social services, and so it goes on. No Government can meet all the demands that are imposed upon it and he is intelligent enoughttoknowthis,Iamsure.His speech was just another very useful political exercise from the Opposition. 1 think that his speech could be wrapped up in one word, and that is 'exaggeration'. I demonstrate that by pointing out that he did say that all the teachers are going to Canada. What exaggeration! The amendment moved by the Opposition once again demonstrates the length to which the Opposition would be prepared to go if elected to office to usurp absolutely the sovereign rights of the States. There is no doubt in my mind that the intention of the Opposition, which was expressed by its leaders on different occasions, to abolish the States would in fact take place. They are centralists in their ideals and I believe that all the States must be very concerned at some of the expressions that have been made in this place on this score. 
In dealing with the estimates for the Department of Education and Science I want to concentrate principally on the needs of primary and secondary schools. 1 want to give some emphasis to the fact that in this Budget there was a 25 per cent increase on last year's allocation of resources to education. I think that this is absolutely necessary because there is no better investment that a nation can make than in education to try to bring out the best in its young people. But of course the investment is only sound if the system is right, if the quality of the teachers is good and if aptitude and morale in the teaching profession is good. In this age education certainly ranks among the highest of priorities in our expenditure. It does in this country in spite of some statements that are made loosely from time to time. Apart from the additional funds that have now been made available to the States under the new 5-year financial reimbursement formula for the State works programme for new school buildings and so on, direct assistance to the States for education this year amounts to $160m which is an increase of $34m on last year. It represents an increase of 370 per cent since 1963. Certainly some people will say that this is not enough, but all governments and all countries have limited resources and as I said earlier, we can only expand our operations in accordance with the availability of these resources. 
I believe that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  is a dedicated Minister and is doing his utmost to try to ensure that adequate funds and resources are extended by the Commonwealth to assist the States in their education programmes. The fact is that the Government has recognised a need to aid the States' education programmes to the maximum. The figure that I have just mentioned doss not include the assistance to non-State schools. The Government will help the non-government schools to the extent of approximately $32m this year. The independent schools have an important place in our education system, educating about 25 per cent of our children. I wonder where we would be today if we did not have the independent schools. What a drain on resources we would have to suffer if we did not have the independent school educating 25 per cent of our children. There are people who resent aid to the non-State schools, but let them remember that the parents sending their children to these schools are doing so at great cost to themselves and are helping to pay for the education of the children their critics are sending to the Government schools. 
In 1968-69 the State Governments were allocating 25 per cent of revenue funds to the running of Government schools while the independent schools were receiving about 1 per cent of State revenues. Yet, as I said earlier, those schools are educating 25 per cent of all children. From 1970 the Commonwealth has joined with the States to help the independent schools with their running costs. Assistance now represents about 2 per cent of State revenue funds. This is helpful, but naturally it does not go far enough. The $24.3m of Commonwealth grants at rates of $35 and $50 per primary and secondary school pupil has helped to supplement the State efforts in aiding the running costs of independent schools. However, there is still one very big need in the independent schools, and that is the need for capital assistance to enable these schools to provide additional accommodation and extensions at their schools. In many non-State schools in my electorate the classrooms are overloaded and old and extensions and renovations are needed. But capital or loan funds are not readily available to them at reasonable interest rates. I believe a great measure of assistance would be rendered if either the Commonwealth or the State governments agreed to subsidise the interest rates on borrowings for new school buildings in the non-State school sector. Admittedly the $7.6m this year for science laboratories and libraries will be of great help to them in any extensions that they plan to make. This problem in the independent schools is demonstrated by the better pupil-teacher ratio in the Government schools. In spite of a rapidly growing enrolment in the State schools there has been a steady reduction in the number of oversized classes. There has been quite a distinct improvement in the pupilteacher ratio in our Government schools. 
But let us look at the overall position. In 1963-64, for instance, the recurrent expenditure on State schools at primary and secondary levels, on technical colleges and on teachers colleges was about $300m or about 22.1 per cent. In 1969-70 we estimate that$570m will be spent in this area, or about 24.2 per cent of State recurrent expenditure. In New South Wales, for instance, the total amount that is allocated to education is in the vicinity of about 43 per cent of the State's total Budget, so this demonstrates that the State governments are. in fact, doing their utmost in trying to meet the need. The Commonwealth's share of total capital expenditure by governments on education in the States has risen from 12 per cent of the total in 1963-64 to 31 per cent in 1969-70. Capital grants this year are $81m; last year they were $64m. allowing for a reasonable increase in State government expenditure. The Commonwealth contribution should represent over 334 per cent of the total Government expenditure in the States this financial year. 
The total Commonwealth direct expenditure in 1970-71 equals about $3 12m, but we should remember that 25 per cent of the State revenues are used to the benefit of 77 per cent of the children attending the State schools while the combined CommonwealthState assistance to the independent schools equals about 2 per cent of the revenues of the States; so who would begrudge the amount of money that is, in fact, going to the independent schools? This really shows the problem facing the independent schools in trying to keep pace with the needs of today. 1 want to say a word about the findings of the Australian Education Council's recently completed survey. I was shocked to hear the honourable member for Bendigo rubbish the report on the activities of the State Departments of Education in trying to come to grips with the problem of undertaking a survey and making certain recommendations. Firstly, the Council started its survey in March 1969. The Council consists of 6 Ministers of Educa tion from the various States with the Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science joining in discussions by invitation. This survey has been completed and the independent schools are conducting their own survey but this, I understand, has not yet been completed. In May of this year the State Ministers met with the Minister for Education and Science after putting their report to their own State governments. The Council has already made demands for additional direct assistance especially for grants for school buildings. This demand was taken into account in the formulation of the new 5year programme with the States at the Premiers' Conference and in the framing of this Budget. Under the new revenue arrangements grants made at the recent Premiers' Conference will provide a faster rate of increase in total Commonwealth revenue assistance to States and the new debt charges assistance will help the States write off about $ 1, 000m over the next 5 years. The rate of growth will be 21/2 per cent to 3 per cent faster than it would have been under the old formula. Even the old arrangement allowed for a faster growth rate than the gross national product. This is a big improvement and it will help the States in their problem of providing additional facilities for education. 
Once again I want to emphasise that the administrative problem for primary and secondary education must remain the responsibility of the States. I believe that the availability of their own revenue this year should help the States to meet a great portion of the growing needs of education. I give an example. In 1970-71 the Commonwealth Government has agreed to support an increase of 8.6 per cent, or $823m. in funds for works and housing. This includes $200m provided for capital works of a non-revenue producing nature. If we add to this the special purpose grants  ofacapitalnature$388mthetotal  funds available to the State governments in 1970-71 are 10 per cent higher than they were in 1969-70. 
I believe that the needs of education were taken into account when this new 5year CommonwealthStates financial agreement was determined. However the survey does reveal an enormous financial need for education over the next 5 years for running costs, for salary costs and for capital works. The Prime Minister has indicated to the State Premiers that the Commonwealth Government will discuss further needs as they arise. Let us not forget that tremendous efforts have been made, are being made and will be made by this Government to assist the States to meet the growing needs of primary, secondary and tertiary education in Australia. While all is not perfect at least the maximum of our available resources is being extended to meet the problem. 
I direct  my  question to the Minister for National Development. Is the Minister aware of the progress that has already been made in the construction of the Copeton dam on the Gwydir River as a result of the Commonwealth's announced financial assistance? Owing to recent statements relative to the Commonwealth's financial participation, can the Minister assure the House that the Commonwealth will continue to provide agreed upon annual payments to the New South Wales Government to ensure that scheduled progress on this important project is in no way retarded? 
I do not intend to detain the House for any length of time in dealing with this Bill but 1 would just like to make one or two observations in regard to the speech made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who lamented the fact that the  Bill did not . take into account the need to provide for the maintenance costs of sheltered workshops. Qf course he knows, and 1 think all of us know, that we cannot do everything at once but the fact remains that the Government has in the last 3 years made great strides in assisting the sheltered workshops throughout Australia. I want to pay a tribute to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the 
Government for the help given to those charity organisations and the State governments in providing assistance in the education and care of our handicapped people. 
The sheltered workshop concept, which was conceived by devoted charity organisation and other organisations, has given a new hope, a new sense of confidence and security and a new lease of life to many of our handicapped people. These handicapped people, or those who are fortunate enough to be in the sheltered workshops, have been given a feeling of being useful and of being able to make a contribution to their community. Under the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act from 30th June 1967 to the end of February 1970 the following grants have been made: Sheltered workshops, 100 in all, over $3m; workshop rentals, over $78,000; workshop equipment, over $607,000: and for hostels for employees, over §839,000. This adds up to about $5m. In my electorate at Dubbo we have one of the most outstanding sheltered workshops and certainly one of the most outstanding handicapped complexes in the State. We have received capital grants for equipment and other purposes amounting to $13,000. This money has been used to purchase vehicles, rotary hoes, tractors and other farm machinery for the sheltered farm. 
The record in the Westhaven workshop has been impressive. With a $2 for $1 subsidy for capital equipment purchased, a considerable quantity of equipment and machinery have been installed at the workshop. I refer specifically to the machine which was purchased not so long ago for the manufacture of seedling tubes. The Westhaven Association has won a contract to supply the New South Wales Forestry Commission wilh these tubes. Last week the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  announced that the Westhaven Association had won a contract for the supply of 150,000 tubes for the Australian Capital Territory Forestry Commission. So we can see that in the Westhaven Association's sheltered workshop we have a long range production programme for those engaged in the workshop. I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior and the Government on behalf of . the Westhaven Association for the assistance that it has received in this direction. 
The sheltered workshop undoubtedly is a very vital part of any rehabilitation programme. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  announced last year that this Government has given rehabilitation a high priority in the welfare field. This Bill is evidence of the Government's determination to aid those less fortunate people to the full. The Minister for Social Services announced in his second reading speech that a survey was being conducted to ascertain the dimensions of the disabilities that exist, especially among the young members of our community. Of course, the younger handicapped people should be trained in their youth because I know that training in their younger years is far more effective than in later years. The whole concept of sheltered workshop training is to endeavour to train those people for normal employment opportunities and also to provide employment for those less fortunate people who have no hope of seeking such employment and cannot take their place in the community in that way. 
The Bill provides a new stimulus to the Government's programme. It is a constructive effort which puts forward 3 specific proposals which were outlined in the Minister's second reading speech. Firstly, the Bill will give a subsidy towards the capital cost of accommodation for disabled persons working in normal industry. Secondly, the Bill will provide training fees for persons placed in normal employment. Thirdly, a subsidy will be given towards salaries of certain sheltered workshop staff. These areas were quite rightly chosen by the Minister because at this stage of the development of sheltered workshops these are the areas of greatest need. It is all very well to suggest that the Government should have done more, but al] governments have limited resources. We have to divert those resources to the areas of greatest need. This is what the Bill is designed to do. It will help to tackle the social, vocational and economic problems of the handicapped. Today there are 100 such workshops in Australia employing about 5,000 handicapped people and producing goods worth $5m. Of course, when we add to this the $2m that has been contributed by private organisations and local people, we can see the degree to which not only the Government but the community is trying to assist the less fortunate people. 
I want to deal briefly with the third provision of the Bill, which provides for a $1 for $1 subsidy towards the salary costs incurred by sheltered workshop organisations employing people with special qualifications. These are supervisory people, medical people, counselling people and people who are engaged to assist in sheltered workshops and other special services. This has been one of the heaviest areas of cost to the private organisations that have been running sheltered workshops. Earlier iri the year the Minister will remember that 1 appealed to him and to -the Government to give very serious consideration to providing some assistance in this field. 1 thank you,  Mr Minister,  very much for responding to the requests of the workshops throughout Australia and to my own appeal in this regard. I mentioned earlier this year that the total expenditure of Westhaven in 1969 came to $164,835. Of this amount the total cost of salaries paid to the employed staff was $41,207. This gives some indication of the heavy salary costs. The provisions of this Bill will be of great benefit to sheltered workshops. It will enable them to divert some additional resources to other areas of need in their general administration. I can assure the Minister that all of those persons concerned with the Westhaven Association and I am sure other sheltered workshops and other complexes are grateful for his interest and for the efforts that the Government has made to help those who are carrying out a magnificent job in caring for our handicapped people. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  made the very sweeping statement that the Australian meat industry is in chaos from Darwin to Devonport. That is not altogether correct. I refer to an article in the Northern Territory 'News' of 13th October 1970, which was given to me by the honourable member for the Northern Terriory  (Mr Calder).  The article quotes the General Manager of the Katherine abattoirs as having said on 13th October: 
Luckily there are only 4 to 5 weeks to .go before the end of the season, so there is no panic until next February. 
We have m&gt; reason to want our licence back before then.-- though that doesn't mean we won't be applying for it before then. 
I do not deny that there are great difficulties and problems in the meat industry, but I know that the Government and the industry are using every endeavour to try to meet the standards which are being imposed upon the industry by our customers. 
In typical fashion the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has come into this House and raised a matter of public importance in order to try to capitalise politically upon a delicate situation in the vital meat industry, which is one of the profitable primary industries in Australia. But I think it is even more reprehensible that he has chosen to do this in the absence of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  I think he has done this because on every occasion on which he has had an encounter with the Minister for Primary Industry he has come off second best in a field of two. 
What is the purpose of raising this matter of public importance? ls it to try to sabotage one of the few profitable primary industries in Australia at the present time? The whole record of the Opposition has been to try to sabotage our national service training programme and our involvement in the war in Vietnam. Honourable members opposite are calamity howlers; they are prophets of doom. I brand the Opposition a sabotage Party, so far as the people in my electorate are concerned. The truth of the situation in the meat industry is that the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  negotiated in the United States for our meat industry in October 1958. He negotiated Australia out of the United 
Kingdom meat agreement and in doing so made a great gain for the Australian meat industry, especially the beef industry. Today about 70 per cent of our beef and veal is exported to the United States. Indeed, 45 per cent of our total meat exports go to the United States. 
Exports of beef, veal, lamb and mutton to the United States have increased from only 105,000 tons in 1959-60 to 264,000 tons in 1969-70 - an increase of 168 per cent. That is what this Government has done for the Australian meat industry, so far as the United States meat market is concerned. The value of these exports has increased front $66m to an estimated $248m in 1969-70- an increase of 275 per cent. These figures represent a steady increase in recent years, and we expect that there will be a further increase in meat exports to the United States next year. This important market to Australia accounts for the prosperity of our beef and meat industry; Australia having about 50 per cent of the United States import market. Positive action has been taken to secure this market and full credit must go to the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Australian Government. 
What is the truth of the situation? Let us look at the facts. Let the calamity howler - I am sorry, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  that fellow who was born at Currabubula - be a calamity howler but let him not depress the beef industry and the beef industry in my electorate. I am sure that his relations and friends must be ashamed of him. The Minister for Trade and Industry negotiated Australia's way into the United States market and negotiated freedom from the earlier British agreement to sell as much as we could to the United States. There has been a dramatic increase in the volume of meat exported and an increase in the price that has been paid for beef and meat generally in Australia. In spite of the quotas which the United States has imposed as a result of the Amercian cattle lobby. Australia, as I said earlier, still has 50 per cent of the market. 
Let us look at the total meat production situation in this country. The total meat production for 1969-70 reached a record, a gross value of 5985m, exceeded 2 million tons of production earning export returns of more than S3 80m. Beef and veal in 1969-70 will exceed 1 million tons. Exports of beef and veal are up by 20 per cent on the figure for last year. Beef export earnings are estimated to be $294m, 39 per cent higher than earnings in 1969. The story in respect of mutton and lamb is good also. 
What is the positive action that the Opposition is wishing the Australian Government to take against the United States, the market which has given the prosperity that I mentioned, to the Australian meat industry? The Opposition wishes the Government to direct a vindictive campaign against, the Americans. If our customers require certain export standards, do we ignore them? Do we tell them where to go and to get their meat elsewhere? The farmers ought to tell the Australian Labor Party where to go. Indeed, Australian farmers told the Australian Labor Party where to go on Tuesday of this week in front of Parliament House where only 50 or 60 farmers turned up to be addressed. I am proud to say that not 1 representative of my electorate attended that meeting. The farmers told the Australian Labor Party last Tuesday where to go. 
I am sure that they would not say hello to you. I am certain that they told you where to go and that they will tell you where to go in the future. Australia has to consider its customers and endeavour to supply products to meet its customers requirements. One might argue that the hygiene standards appear to be stringent. Some people have; some countries have. Some countries are banned completely from the United States meat market because their abattoirs have not met the required standards. The thought of this Government not taking the measures that are necessary to try to reach these standards is a pretty horrible one. Does the Australian Labor Party want to see Australia lose this big market? 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  is acting, I believe, in a most responsible manner in the interests of meat producers ensuring that our abattoirs are brought up to the required standards. In the United States of America, people are very conscious of food standards. So are the people of other countries. It will not be long before people of all countries will say that if these food standards are good enough for the United States of America then they will be good enough for them. To ignore this consumer trend would result in great damage being done to our meat industry. The Minister quite rightly has announced that the Government will do everything possible to ensure that Australian meat works comply with the requirements of the consumer in our biggest market. Any other policy of retaliation would be complete folly, absolutely crazy and irresponsible to say the least. Honourable members opposite can play politics if they like, but do not gamble with the future and the prosperity of the meat producers whom I represent. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the speculation taking place relative to Australia's future wheat trade prospects with Mainland China? I*, the Minister concerned that future Australian wheat sales to Mainland China could be in jeopardy because of the decision of the Canadian Government to grant diplomatic recognition to Mainland China? 
In speaking on the estimates for the Defence Services I must say that I was somewhat surprised to see the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwin)  in typical Australian Labor Party fashion looking back over his shoulder to the days of the Wirraways and quoting what was said by the then Ministers and not dealing with present day conditions. He was not really concerned with the great problem which has been created for us by Communist forces which exist in this world and which are prepared to try to take over this country. I am surprised that he would even bother to stand up on his feet and address himself to what happened 10 or 12 years ago. 
But in speaking on the estimates for the Defence Services I want to devote my observations to the very important question of pay and conditions of our servicemen, because I recognise that the morale and well being of servicemen is fundamental to the adequacy of our defence system. If men are dissatisfied with their conditions of employment you cannot expect to get the best from them. The whole foundation of a defence system rests on the men and women who through their dedication to the service of their country provide the manpower to handle the sophisticated weapons system without which our whole expenditure would be valueless. 
For these reasons 1 am comforted by the fact that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has devoted much of his effort, since he has taken over the portfolio, to this very important question of pay and conditions. Firstly, there was the setting up of the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee and then there w.is the announcement last week of the setting up of an inquiry into the financial terms and conditions of Service employment. Last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and the then Minister for Defence agreed to establish this Pay and Conditions of Service Committee within the Department of Defence. Since the Committee has come into operation it has met on 20 occasions and the sub-committees have met on 51 occasions. The decisions that have been made to improve the conditions of servicemen have already added $29m to the annual wages of servicemen since January 1970. In order to bring the value of practical experience to the Committee, personnel members of the various Service boards now attend the Committee meetings. In regular meetings with the Chiefs of Staff, the personnel members of the Service boards and the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee have kept the Minister constantly informed of matters affecting the Services. 
I say this quite sincerely. The Minister has obviously applied himself with great dedication and has shown a determination to come to grips with the vexed and complex problems that have had an adverse effect on the conditions of Service personnel. Already some benefit has resulted to servicemen from the Pay and Conditions Committee reports that have gone to the Minister, to the Treasurer and to the Government. Arising from this inquiry we had the announcement last week of the setting up of this full scale inquiry. The Minister has also made it clear that whilst this inquiry is taking place it would not be in the best interests of the Services to leave any adjustments that are obviously necessary pending the results of a full scale inquiry, because this inquiry will necessarily take time. A recent decision which will give some protection to the pay and conditions of officer personnel is that when adjustments are made in the Third Division of the 
Commonwealth Public Service, pay adjustments for officer rank up to colonel will be made at the same time. This does not mean, of course, that adjustments to the Third Division of the Public Service will be made similarly on a point by point basis for the officers because there are 2 entirely different groups of Service people and different circumstances involved. But at least a principle has been established to ensure that officers are not left lagging behind the moves in salaries of the Third Division of the Public Service. This. principle is long overdue. 
Unfortunately there has never been an in-depth study or inquiry into the matter of pay and conditions of Service personnel taking into account the modern principles of salary fixation and the actual degree of duties and responsibilities of all levels throughout the Service. This does account for the unfortunate drain of officers that has occurred away from all the Services to other more remunerative forms of employment. This drift away from the Services can be arrested if full note is taken of the disadvantages suffered by Service personnel by the provision of such things as temporary rental allowances, educational allowances, removal allowances and due compensation for officers and their families when they have to move from place to place. I was pleased to see that the Minister has also recognised that there is some need to check on the number of times that Service personnel are posted from one place to another. Every time a Service officer has to move from one home to another he is involved in considerable expense. Quite often there is a feeling of dissatisfaction among the wives and families who have to make new friends and fit into new communities. Of course, this interrupts the education of their children. 
There has been considerable dissatisfaction with housing made available for servicemen of all ranks and I believe any inquiry should study this problem in depth, whether it is an inquiry by the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee or the committee of inquiry. It is certainly an area that needs very close scrutiny. When a serviceman has been moved frequently from place to place he has no hope of buying a new home, paying it off and establishing some capital asset. So I conclude by urging the Minister to proceed with his very constructive policy of seeking to improve the conditions of servicemen generally. 1 am sure that this House welcomes the announcement by the Government of the instituting of a full scale inquiry, a measure that if it succeeds in the programme the Government envisages will mean even higher standards in the performance of the Services and a higher morale among our very important Service personnel. It is of paramount importance to restore the status of the personnel in the armed Services. All these anti-Vietnam demonstrations, all the howling we hear from the Opposition, all the demonstrations and cries about getting out of Vietnam and of reducing the Services that we hear from the Opposition, including the screaming member from Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  are pressures that are brought to bear upon Service personnel and their families. This has not helped the morale of the serviceman. I hope that members of the Opposition will appreciate that it is necessary to maintain an armed Service with personnel who have the confidence of both sides of this House and who are supported in their endeavours by both sides of this House. They are good Australians serving this country and must be given the status that they deserve. T have every confidence that the actions taken by this Government will help restore the status of the personnel in the armed Services in this country. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Labour and National Service been drawn to the statement by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions that this is the year of the 35- hour week? Will the Minister inform the House of the measures that the ACTU  President  is pursuing to achieve this objective? Does the Government feel that the Australian economy and our producers for the export markets can afford such a reduction in working hours? 
In view of the fact that  Mr Hawke  regards 1970 as the 35-hour week year, will the Minister for Trade and Industry inform the House what the likely repercussions would be to Australia's export trade and industry generally and the consequent effect upon the cost of living of workers throughout Australia if the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions achieves his ambition? 
In selling overseas there is one factor which is most embraceably and constantly determined in capacity to sell and that is costs of production indicating whether a country can sell at a profit or a loss competitively in overseas markets. It is true that a country can sell at a loss for a period. This is an experience being endured by many primary industries today. But it is equally true that a country cannot indefinitely go on selling at a loss. An industry that is confronted with doing its business at a loss will not attract investment. Tt must shrink. It must diminish. To that extent, it must have an effect upon the whole capacity of the nation to have a stable economy as the result of its foreign exchange earnings. 
No-one would question the fact that, if the working week were transformed from what I believe to be the average standard of 40 hours to a 35-hour week, the cost per unit of production must increase very, very substantially. Figures that I have seen in regard to the total annual cost of the introduction of the 35-hour week vary from $2,000m a year to $2,700m a year. I do not know which figure precisely is right or whether anyone would know what is precisely right. But this is the range of the cost that I have seen coming from authoritative calculations. 
Under our system, it is possible when a new cost arises for most of the community in due course to get an adjustment that enables them to bear that cost. This may be an increase in wages or salaries, an increase in prices or whatever the devices may be. The one sector of the community that is utterly powerless to pass on this cost is the producer for export who must sell overseas with no relationship to his own cost of production but in competition with other sellers of the same products on the same market. I would say unhesitatingly that the introduction of a 35- hour week at this stage, or in the near future as  Mr Hawke  advocates, would bear unbearably upon a rural community which at present is really in pretty desperate straits in respect of many of our products. I would have not the slightest hesitation in saying that in due course the whole Australian nation would suffer from this. This is not to say that 1 or my Party or this Government is immutably opposed to the shortening of hours. This is not the position and never has been the position. The attitude that we take is that hours can be shortened if increased productivity takes care of the added burden of costs, and this is the history of the matter. In my day in this Parliament I have seen the standard hours come down from 48 to 44 and to 40, but there have been enormous increases in productivity, and that is the criterion that must be in the mind of every responsible knowledgeable Australian - and that does not seem to include  Mr Hawke. 
In speaking on this Bill I want to emphasise the importance of Australia's developing and growing ties and trade relations with the Asian region. Before developing this argument I would like to say how pleased I was that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  indicated his support for this Bill. It is of immense importance to Australia that the Asian Development Bank succeeds in its efforts to help developing countries in Asia to achieve faster rates of economic growth and so raise the living standards through the area in which the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East operates. Economic solidarity must surely lead to political stability in this region which will be of increasing importance to Australia. 
The purpose of the Bill is to provide the equivalent of $US10m to the special funds of the Asian Development Bank. It is well to remind the House that Australia is a foundation member of the Asian Development Bank which has a membership of 35 countries, 21 of them in the Asian region and 14 outside it. Australia's subscription of $US85m to the capital stock of the Bank is exceeded only by those of the United States, Japan and India. In recognition of a need to promote economic development in the general region and the need for additional special loan funds, the Government has agreed to make a further $US10m available to special funds over the next 3 financial years subject, of course, to the approval of the Parliament. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has indicated that $US9.75m are allocated to the multi-purpose special fund and $US250,000 are to be allocated to the technical assistance special fund. The multi-purpose special funds will be tied to the procurement of goods produced in, or services supplied from, Australia. The technical assistance special fund will be used only to pay for the services of Australian consultants and experts hired by the Bank in connection with its technical assistance. 
In the past, consultant engineers and consultants generally from Japan and other countries have had a favoured situation because of their contributions to the special funds. This Japanese provision and access to funds has enabled economic penetration into the recipient countries. The special funds, earmarked for technical assistance. have been popular with both the recipient and contributor countries because, so far as recipient countries are concerned, these funds 'are available as soft loans or grants. In the case of the contributor countries, employment opportunities are created for consultants and ultimately for its manufacturing and constructing industries after cost benefit analyses have been conducted by these firms in these countries. 
I should like to quote from a United Nations publication titled 'A Guide for Firms and Organisations Desiring to Participate in the Activities of the United Nations Development Programme' where it points to the fact that the initial pre* investment studies, that is, those studies where consultant skills can be applied, may well lead to a further export of construction skills and the export of heavy engineering, civil and other equipment. The United Nations document quotes, inter alia, that in its programme 31 pre-investment studies carried out at a cost of $38. 5m thus far have led to an investment of $ 1,640m for hydro power works and multi-purpose river basin schemes, forest and mining industries, irrigation, drainage and related reclamation works, water supply, sewerage facilities and roads, railways, ports and channels. 
Honourable members will see from that list that Australia does have the ability to provide some of the development that is so necessary in those countries, but Australian firms must be given the same kind of competitive position as have countries such as Japan. It appears that Japan and other countries which have been contributing to the special fund have been able to walk into the Department of Works and select attractive projects knowing that their government will foot the bill to the Indonesian Government from Asian Development Bank funds. 
Yes. This has placed Australian consultants in a much less competitive position. I believe that this Bill will make a valuable contribution to strengthening our association with South East Asian countries. The Indonesian 5-year plan of development should provide an avenue for the outlet of some of the funds provided for in this Bill. Whilst we should not restrict ourselves to Indonesia, it is logical that we give special attention to Indonesia as that is our closest neighbour. Also, I think it is most important that we set out to try to improve our general relationships with Indonesia. A prosperous and friendly Indonesia will provide an enormous market for Australian export industries and I am sure that it will provide a good 2-way trade between both countries in the future. I believe that this Bill will assist in providing the right climate for active participation by Australia in overseas development programmes, enabling an export, not only of goods and services, but also of skills. 
-I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service: Are any industrial strikes current or are any industrial disorders threatened in order to achieve the 35-hour working week in accordance with  Mr Hawke's  stated objective with the support of the Australian Labor Party? 
First, I wish to congratulate the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  upon the speed with which he acted in concert with the Australian wool industry in presenting to Parliament this Bill to establish the Australian Wool Commission. Who would have thought that in a matter of a few months we would have seen the wool industry completely united and the Government acting in such time to try to meet the crisis that the industry is facing? 
I wish also to pay special tribute to  Sir John  Crawford, the Vice-Chancellor of the Australian National University, an eminent economist with special knowledge and interest in rural economics, for the preparation of his comprehensive and historic assessment of the proposals of the Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board. Full marks to the Minister for his decision to engage the services of this eminent Australian to prepare the proposal for the Government. 
The wool industry has been long divided - in fact, it has been plagued - by indecisions and by divisions on the question of marketing. Of course, this non Socialist Government has never, and I hope will never, instruct an industry what it shall do with its product. We have been waiting for the wool industry to decide what policy it would adopt and how it wanted the Government to act. Unfortunately, throughout the whole of this debate within the industry, a certain loss of confidence in the industry has occurred. 
In this regard, I wish to pay special tribute to another important personality in this welcome movement towards a united approach by the industry, particularly in New South Wales. I refer to  Mr Ronald  Hunter, a leading stock and station agent and grazier in Moree who, for many years, has been a member of the General Council of the Graziers Association of New South Wales. It was  Mr Ronald  Hunter who organised the initial mass meeting of wool growers in Moree, in my home town, at the Moree Showground on 21st March of this year. Over 2,600 wool growers attended this meeting and almost unanimously voted for the establishment of a single statutory marketing authority. This was an historic landmark in the history of Australia's biggest industry. I might say for the record that I am proud I was the  chairman  of that meeting. 
From that day - 21st March - events have moved swiftly. Further meetings were held around Australia. In March 1970, the Australian Wool Board Advisory Committee met in Canberra. In April of this year, the Graziers Association of New South Wales voted in favour of this proposal. Again in April, the Australian Wool Industry Conference voted in favour of a single wool marketing authority. In June 1970, the Australian Wool Board Advisory Committee's sub-committee was established to examine the principles involved in the submission. In July 1970, the subcommittee reported that it was firmly of the view that the present and foreseeable conditions of the industry called for the establishment of an effective, that is, a strong single wool marketing authority with powers relating to the whole of the clip. 
As I said earlier, the Minister invited the Vice-Chancellor of the Australian National University to make an independent assessment of the proposal and to comment on the broad principles recommended by the Committee. On 14th September,  Sir John  Crawford handed this report to the Minister. On 6th October the Minister announced that the Commonwealth Government had agreed to the establishment of a statutory wool marketing authority to be known as the Australian Wool Commission. Since then the Australian Wool Industry Conference has voted for this proposal by 47 votes to nil, with 3 abstentions. I have traced the history of events that have led up to this Bill. So I say to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby):  What utter rubbish to come into this place and say that we have not implemented what the industry asked for. It is a mischievous and mislead ing statement to be made in this House. He went on to quote a little rhyme called Baa, Baa, Black Sheep'. Let me quote a similar rhyme: 
Blah, Blah Grassby, have you any wool? No, sir, no, sir, just a lot of bull. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the Leader of the Opposition made no reference to the Australian Labor Party's 35-hour week policy in his Senate election campaign speech last night? Is he aware also that  Mr Hawke  followed the Leader of the Opposition at the campaign opening and spoke on the 35-hour week issue? Is the right honourable gentleman further aware that  Mr Hawke  issued a challenge to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour and National Service to debate the 35-hour week issue? Does he think that the Leader of the Opposition is trying to tiptoe through the political tulips with  Mr Hawke  in hot pursuit? 
When talking about issuing a challenge, he had this to say: 
The Prime Minister has joined me - 
That is,  Mr Hawke  - 
. and  Mr Whitlam  in saying that the 35-hour week is an issue that should be discussed and judged at this election. 
It is quite interesting to have this affirmation by  Mr Hawke,  at second hand, of what  Mr Whitlam  has said, because I think that everyone in this House will agree that so far his silence has been almost deafening. But it is interesting to have this Hawke-Whitlam axis confirmed, particularly in a field where the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition are, by their platform, pledged to bring in a 35-hour week and where, if this nation ever had the misfortune for them to be in government, they would have to carry out that policy insofar as they could in their own instrumentalities and would have to advocate it in the Arbitration Court to the great distress of all those areas of which I have spoken. In replying to the last part of the honourable member's question, I do not think it is a case of the Leader of the Opposition tiptoeing through the tulips with  Mr Hawke  in pursuit. I think it is perhaps rather a case of them both walking hand in hand through the flowery meadows because neither would want the other to get behind him. 
I ask the honourable member to put his question on notice and 1 will give a detailed answer to it at the earliest opportunity. 
 I am well aware of the interest of the honourable member in the Northern Territory Legislative Council and its functions. I remind him that after talks between the former Minister for the Interior and representatives  of  the Legislative Council in Canberra during June 1970 the Government agreed to set up a committee to investigate the possible further involvement of the Legislative Council in the State-like activities in the Northern Territory. The Legislative Council requested further talks with my predecessor and the Government replied that a study was necessary before further talks should take place at ministerial level. 
I am sure that the honourable member for the Northern Territory will be pleased to know that I have been advised today by the Administrator of the Northern Territory that the elected members of the Legislative Council have nominated 5 representatives to meet Commonwealth officers to begin discussions. The Government is awaiting the results of a serious study of the possibility of further involvement of the Legislative Council, within the limitations of the financial position of the Northern Territory and its administrative resources, and in the light of the Commonwealth's special concern for the Northern Territory and its people. I am sure that the elected members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council and the Commonwealth Government will do everything possible to have a comprehensive study made of the problem. 
The  answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1) above. 
 The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Northern Territory Police Force conducts annual recruitment campaigns. 
, (3) and (6) It is not the practice to divulge information regarding applications for employment. 
and (5) The circumstances described are outside the scope of the Department of the Interior. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest projections by the NCDC are that Canberra's population could approximate 600,000 by the end of the century and I am informed that the Slate Planning Authority of New South Wales expects that the population of Sydney could then be in the vicinity of 5 million. The Authority does not have available a population projection for the greater Wollongong area as such. However, 1 understand that a population projection it has made for the Illawarra Region which comprises the local government areas of Wollongong, Shellharbour. Kiama and Shoalhaven, indicates a population of about 570,000 by the year 2001. 
Having regard to anticipated population growth, there is obvious value in preserving areas in a natural state for the enjoyment of future generations. 
and (4) The Government recognises that the people of the Australian Capital Territory are increasingly using the South Coast areas and action to preserve the particular area referred to would no doubt be welcomed by many. However, the responsibility for the dedication and management of national parks in New South Wales is entirely a matter for the Government of that State. Matters of mutual interest are discussed between those responsible for national parks and reserves in the various States and Territories at the Australian Fauna Authorities Conferences and the Ministerial Conferences on National Parks, which are held regularly. 
The Government is considering declaring some 11.000 acres of the 16,700 acres contained in the Commonwealth Territory of Jervis Bay as a reserve to preserve the natural environment. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) 1 am not in a position to confirm or deny what might have been said at the public meeting. However, the land now under pastoral lease to the Wave Hill Pastoral Co. Pty Ltd (Vesteys) was leased to the company in accordance with the relevant Territory law which provides for the responsible Minister to grant leases of vacant Crown land for various purposes. 
The land was first leased in 1893. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
With the abolition of land rent in Canberra and the introduction of the new basis of land charging with effect from 1st January 197 1, it has been decided that total revenue from the general rate and water and sewerage charges during the first half of 1971 will not exceed the revenue which would have been received during that period from land rent, the general rate and water and sewerage charges had those charges remained at 1970 levels. 
All ratable land has been revalued during 1970 and a rate in the dollar struck which when applied to the total value of the land, will yield the sum required to be collected by way of the general rate. 
No. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Each application to the Commissioner by a person for the return or destruction of fingerprints or photographs is decided on its merits by the Commissioner of Police. The factors which are considered are the circumstances of the particular offence for which the person was charged, the person's antecedents which include his age, state of health, personal and family history and any circumstances which may have any special bearing on the commission of this particular offence, past offences or the possibility of his committing further offences. The practice in these matters in the Australian Capital Territory conforms with the practice in the Australian States. 
Photographs at Demonstrations  (Question No. 2162) 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) See answer to Question No. 2194. 
Ord River: Cattle Stocking and Land Regeneration  (Question No. 2178)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What negotiations have been held or arrangements made with Western Australia concerning cattle stocking and land regeneration in the Ord River catchment area since the answer of a former Minister for Territories to me on 28th March 1963 (Hansard, page 253). 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some discussions have been held since March 1963 between technical officers of the Northern Territory Administration engaged in soil erosion control and land regeneration and technical officers of the Western Australian Government regarding erosion control in the Upper Ord Valley. In the Northern Territory part of the Ord River catchment area, soil reclamation work is being carried out under the provisions of the Northern Territory Soil Conservation and Control Ordinance by the Northern Territory Administration with the co-operation of the pastoral lessees. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
, (3) and (9) No. It is not my practice to make public submissions and representations made to me by private individuals and organisations. 
These representations 'were made before full information on the proposed changes was available and arose from a mistaken notion held by those bodies that the Government's announced intention to abandon land rent would undermine the leasehold system of land tenure in Canberra. 
Information about the changes and the reasons for them have been given in ray reply to question No. 1923 (Hansard, 21st October 1970, pages 2615-6), in my public statement of 22nd October 1970, as well as in  Senator Cotton's  speech in the Senate on 26th October in support of the Land Rent (Interim Provisions) Ordinance 1970. 
I made it clear in my statement that the changes would in no way affect the planning and development advantages of the leasehold system, but would remove inequitable distribution of land charges.  Senator Cotton  also made this clear and he emphasised that there was no intention of interfering with the leasehold system of tenure, rather the intention was to retain all the advantages of the leasehold system whilst putting Canberra's finances on to a basis which both the people of Canberra and the people of Australia can comprehend. 
No. A report was made in the form of a confidential submission to the Government. However the major reasons put forward in support of the recommendations have since been made public. 
and (6) In the study that was made, other Departments as well as the National Capital Development Commission were consulted because of their various responsibilities and the final recommendation took into account the comments made. I do not propose to make public any of these comments. 
The premium to be paid upon variation of a covenant or condition of a lease will be 50 per cent of the difference between the market values of the lease for the old and the new purposes, less $1,500. 
Formerly, upon a variation of a covenant or condition of lease, the City Area Leases Ordinance provided for the unimproved value of the land to' be reappraised and for land rent to be adjusted accordingly. In this way the Commonwealth received part of the benefit of the increased value given to the lease. The new system ensures that the Commonwealth shares in the additional value given to a lease in these circumstances. 
These are explained in my statement and in the speech by  Senator Cotton,  both of which are referred to in (2) above. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr  Nixon) to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Due to the small number of A.C.T. motor cycles with an engine capacity in excess of 250 c.c. there was not sufficient A.C.T. insurance experience available for the relativity to be based on A.C.T. insurance experience alone. As a result the pre-determined relativity rate for this class of motor cycle was to a large degree based on confidential information relating to the experience in other States. 
(a) Prior to the 1968 increase in the preium rates, a constant loading for expenses of $1.75 was added to each policy. At the request of the Third Party Insurance Premiums Advisory Committee, the NRMA Insurance Ltd supplied in confidence a statement showing the estimated cost to the company of administering compulsory third party insurance business in the A.C.T. The cost was shown to be of the order of 11% of premium income. The view was taken in 1968 that the proper method of loading the premium to meet expenses of administration was to add a fixed sum to the premium for each policy. The fixed sum equivalent to the percentage referred to above is $3.36. 
The Third Party Insurance Premiums Advisory Committee in its report published in 1968, said that it had been impressed by the arguments put forward by the NRMA Insurance Ltd that it was faced with substantial increases in administrative costs due to recent clerical awards adding as much as 10% per annum to salaries and with rising costs of supplies and services. The new rate of premium in 1968 was intended to be sufficient to provide for levels of expenses in the immediate future, rather than for past levels of expenses, a loading of$3. 75 per policy for expenses was adopted. 
The  2½%  loading on the premium for profit has remained unchanged since 1964 when it was considered a reasonable figure for profit for insurance companies writing third party insurance business. 
The 7½% of the gross premium for contingencies used prior to 1968 was adopted in 1964 to provide for an anticipated increasing trend in claim costs and to permit the establishment of a small buffer reserve against unforeseeable changes in experience. 
The detailed analyses of the trends in the costs of claims and the ratio of claims to policies enabled the average cost of a claim to be calculated in 1968. The need for a substantial proportion of the 7½% contingency loading therefore disappeared, although the possibility of unforeseeable changes in experience still exist. A 2½% contingency loading was adopted in 1968 as being sufficient for the immediate future. 
Part of the information requested by the honourable member is being supplied in my answer to part (6) of Question No. 2201. Other details are not available as they were supplied, in confidence, to the Committee by the NRMA Insurance Ltd. The results of the investigations are, however, shown in the graphs on pages 4 and 5 of the report of the Committee published in November 1968. There was a slight variation between the preliminary figures from which the graphs were drawn and the figures later calculated and on which the revised premiums were based. These variations are shown in the following table. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The most important role for the police at demonstrations is to take steps to prevent breaches of the peace. 
People who organise peaceful demonstrations have no control over elements unknown to them who often intrude and who are prone to create disturbances or may incite others to commit offences and in preparing plans for dealing with possible eventualities, it is important for police to be  able to identify these intruders so that the most effective measures can be taken in the hope that breaches of the peace will be prevented. Photographs taken at demonstrations provide a valuable aid to police in carrying out this function. 
Photographs of scenes at different demonstrations enable the effectiveness of any new procedures introduced with the aim of improving methods of dealing with such occasions to be evaluated. 
Photographic records also enable the effects of demonstrations on traffic flow and the rights of access of other citizens to streets and other public places to be studied. 
Demonstrations are, by their nature, public occasions and are commonly photographed by news photographers or private individuals as well as police. There is a proper distinction between such photographs taken on public occasions and police identification photographs of persons in custody and that distinction is preserved in the police records. 
I am not prepared to give the assurance sought. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought for the years prior to 1968 is unavailable. The authorised insurers' statistical returns did not contain this information prior to 1968. 
The number of claims arising out of the use of private cars, notified to authorised insurers in 1968 and 1969 were: 
1968 .. ..451 
1969 ..486 
The information sought in this part of the question is not known. 
Set out below are figures taken from the annual returns lodged with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles by the authorised insurers indicating the number of motor vehicles other than motor cycles with a capacity exceeding 250cc insured in each of the years 1965 to 1969. 
1965 .. .. 32,992 
1966 .. .. 37,079 
1967 .. .. 40,823 
1968 .. .. 44,490 
1969 .. .. 49,605 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The authorised insurers use their own methods for arriving at their individual estimates of outstanding liability. The accuracy of the estimates of outstanding liability made by the authorised insurers can be assessed in future years. 
$1,000 and $6,500 are estimates of future liability as at 31st December 1968 and as at 31st December 1969 respectively. These estimates do not necessarily relate to claims made in that particular year. 
and (4) Where a claim is notified but not finalised estimates  of  outstanding liability are made. When the claim is finalised the estimate of outstanding liability in relation to the claim is reduced to zero. 
The information required is not known because insurance experience for 1970 is not yet available. 
In 1968 Third Party Insurance Premiums Advisory Committee had before it extensive tabulations showing the amounts of actual and estimated liability arising from claims which occurred between 1958 and 1966. These tabulations will be made available to the honourable member. The Committee also had before it the annual returns of the authorised insurers. 
The Registrar of Motor Vehicles does not keep a record of the different types of motor cycles registered. The following figures have been taken from the annual returns lodged with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles by the authorised insurers and indicate the number of motor cycles with an engine capacity in excess of 250cc which were insured with authorised insurers in the years 1965 lo 1969. 
1965 . . . . 36 
1966 .. ..29 
1967 .. ..41 
1968 .. ..66 
1969 .. ..83 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Mr Nixon)  to the honorable member's question  is as follows: 
There is consultation between the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs and the Minister for the Interior on policy issues affecting Aborigines in the Northern Territory. The training of Aboriginal men and women is the responsibility of the Welfare Division of the Northern Territory Administration within the Department of the Interior. One of the functions of the Welfare Division is to provide for the welfare and advancement of Aborigines in the Northern Territory and to carry out its functions the Division is staffed with experienced and qualified officers. 
The Australian School of Pacific Administration, Teachers' Colleges, departmental courses and Public Service conferences provide specialised staff training and training on the job is given in the field. At the Australian School of Pacific Administration, for example, the courses for teachers and patrol officers give special attention to anthropology and other studies which have a particular relevance to the Aboriginal situation. All training programmes are aimed at developing among officers an understanding of Aboriginal culture and society and the broad policies of Government for the development of the Aboriginal people as well as imparting special skills required. The duties of field officers include the training of Aborigines  so  that they can take advantage of opportunities for economic progress by using the natural resources within Aboriginal reserves. 
A number of Aboriginal business ventures have been assisted with finance from the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund and the Capital Fund to assist Aboriginal enterprises. Where this is necessary the assistance includes funds to employ people with technical and management skills to assist the Aboriginal owners. Examples of this are the fishing project at Umbakumba, gardening projects at Maningrida and Garden Point, the proposed store at Wave Hill, the prospecting being done by Aborigines at Docker River, and the copper leaching plant at Yuendumu. Other prospecting rights have been granted to Aboriginal groups from Maningrida and Goulburn Island and these groups have received and continue to have available to them technical and other assistance from the Territory Administration. 
This is a matter for the Prime Minister, and for the Government. The estimated cost of the additions to Parliament House will be approximately $2m. They are additions that surely must be regarded by all honourable members as quite necessary to help in the proper facilitation of their duties as members of this House. If anyone has any doubt about the  Deed  for additional space, I invite him to my office where my staff of four are  working in an area 10 feet by 19 feet. 
I was not aware of the fact to which the honourable member has referred, but the point is well taken and I hope that it will be well taken by every honourable member in this House. I believe that the installation of seat belts is an absolute necessity in order to try to reduce the loss of lives on our roads. I hope that honourable members will set an example. The Minister for the Interior himself will set an example by doing up his seat belt in a Commonwealth car. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See the following tables: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The States have gazetted legislation making it mandatory to comply with Australian Design Rule 4 (b) which requires the fitting of a seat belt for each rear seat position in passenger cars first registered on or after 1 January 1971. 
Passenger vehicles delivered since that date to the Department's Transport Section in Canberra have been fitted with a seat belt for each seat position, front and rear, and this requirement will continue to be observed for all future deliveries. 
Passenger cars in use which were first registered prior to 1 January 1971 do not have seat belts fitted for the rear seat positions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3). Representatives of the Department of the Interior, Department of Works, Department of Health and National Capital Development Commission formed into an ad hoc committee in April 1969 for the purpose of ensuring and maintaining close and effective liaison between the Departments and Authorities concerned with the quality of waterways in the A.C.T. It was not set up to produce a report. 
The committee which has formally met on two occasions has a continuing function through meetings of technical representatives who meet as appropriate. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second  time 
The sole purpose of this Bill is to effect changes in the declarations to be made by candidates in the nomination forms used at Senate elections where casual vacancies are to be filled. Similar changes to the nomination forms to be used at Senate elections where periodical vacancies are to be filled are provided in the Commonwealth Electoral Bill which I introduced earlier. 
The proposed changes in the nomination forms will be necessary for the implementation of the proposed amendments of the Commonwealth Electoral Act in relation to more than one nomination by a candidate or in relating to any change of name by a candidate within the twelve months period immediately preceding his nomination. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
by leave - On the night of 26th January 1971 a thunderstorm sudden in onset and severe in intensity broke over the Woden Valley. It was accompanied by torrential rain and in the flooding which followed 7 lives were lost and damage was caused to private and public property. Our deepest sympathy goes out to the relatives and friends of those who lost their lives. The inquest into the deaths began on 22nd February 1971 and the Coroner's findings were announced on )5th March 1971. He found that each of the deaths occurred by accidental drowning. 
Immediately after the flood the then Minister for  the  Interior requested reports from the Department of the Interior and the National Capital Development Com mission. As requested by the former Minister for the Interior the report by the Department deals with such matters as the storm and its effect on the Woden Valley, the police and civil defence response, loss of life, damage to property, possible action to prevent such a disaster happening again, and whether changes are needed in the warning systems and emergency procedures. The National Capital Development Commission's report deals with the engineering design and construction of drainage works in the Woden Valley and with relevant road work. 
In view of all the circumstances of this tragic loss of life and in view of the public interest I am departing from normal practice with respect to departmental reports and at the conclusion of this statement I will table the report of the Department of the Interior and the report of the National Capital Development Commission. I will also table the Coroner's statement and findings. The conclusions drawn by the Department of the Interior were as follows: 
The storm on  26th  January was exceptional and extreme, lt was sudden in onset and produced torrential rain which within less than 30 minutes caused serious flooding. 
The emergency developed and abated in a period of a little over an hour. 
The flooding occurred al widely separate points. Five and probably 6 lives were  lost  at the intersection of Melrose Drive, Yamba Drive and Yarra Glen. The seventh life was lost some  H  miles south of this point on Yamba Drive on the eastern side of the Woden Valley. A city omnibus on the western side of the Valley at the intersection of Beasley and Basedow Streets was turned through 180 degrees and carried across the road by flood waters. Rescues were effected at places between those points and also at the Cotter Road crossing of Yarralumla Creek H miles downstream from the Melrose Drive. Yamba Drive, Yarra Glen intersection. 
There was no previous experience to demonstrate how quickly the intersection of Yarra Glen with Melrose Drive and Yamba Drive could become dangerous through flooding. 
Apart from the overtopping of the main Yarralumla Creek and sections of the Long Gully Creek formed channels there were severe overland flows in the Woden Valley which caused considerable damage to private and public property. 
The response of the police and other emergency services was satisfactory. 
The presence of warning signs or depth indicators or better lighting might have helped to avoid or reduce the loss of life at the intersection but whether this would actually have been the case in the circumstances of this particular storm is doubtful. However, warning signs and  depth indicators have been installed and the lighting is to be improved. 
The warning system and the emergency procedures applicable in these kinds of circumstances have been closely examined. Some improvements have been made and others are in hand. No changes have been revealed or suggested, however, which would have ensured adequate warning of such serious and sudden flooding as occurred on 26th January. 
A review is being made of all other sections of roadway in the City of Canberra which may be subject to periodic serious flooding in order to determine those sections where like or alternative action should be taken. 
Priority is being given to the installation of highway lighting in areas subject to periodic serious flooding as well as the section of Yarra Glen from Carruthers Street to Yamba Drive. 
Improvements have been made in the civil emergency procedures and the practicability of giving earlier warnings to the authorities is being further investigated. 
A new section is to be included in the forthcoming reprint of 'Driving in the ACT' on the danger of driving on roads covered with water. Information about the nature of storms of the kind which occurred on 26th January and the implementation for public safety are to be given wide .public circulation. 
A number of people exposed themselves to serious personal danger to save others. Without their courageous efforts there could have been further casualties. 
The National Capital Development Commission summarises its report and conclusions as follows: 
The low level crossing at Melrose Drive-Yamba Drive across the Yarralumla Creek was designed to provide for the passage of normal dry weather flows up to approximately 800 cusecs through four 48-inch diameter pipes. The crossing was designed to withstand flooding and to allow the passage of flows above 800 cusecs over the causeway section, but at velocities considerably less than in the main channel. 
The crossing has been in operation since April 1967 during which time there has been flooding, though not frequent, of the roadway and some restriction to movement of traffic. 
The interchange replacing this crossing is programmed for construction commencing this year. 
The stormwater drainage in the area has been designed in accordance with accepted practice in Australia. This provides drainage pipes and channels for flows of frequent occurrence. Less frequent heavy flows are carried outside these conduits in open parklands or defined floodways. The review of drainage under the exceptional conditions of 26th January requires a consideration of the entire system of pipes, channels and floodways. 
The basic concept of providing stormwater drainage in accordance with accepted practice is still considered sound and valid. 
The storm of 26th January has demonstrated the need for some additional capital works beyond those currently in progress or planned. These works are in such areas as Mount Taylor, Farrer, Torrens and Mawson and have been identified as the result of the collaborative investigation by the construction and maintenance authorities. 
These supplementary works will be constructed as soon as the detail investigation and design is completed. 
The Commission sees considerable value in a further collaborative review of other areas of Canberra assuming a hypothetical storm situation of unusual characteristics similar to that which occurred in the Woden Valley. 
Attached to the Department of the Interior's report is a report by the Department of Works on the hydrology of the flood. The conclusions reached by the Department of Works were as follows: 
Analysis of the hydrological data support a conclusion that the storm and flood in the Woden Valley on the night of the 26th January 1971 was an event which must be considered of rare occurrence with an average return period most probably in excess and even well in excess of 100 years for the Woden Valley in its past and present condition. 
When compared with subsequent relatively large floods in the Woden Valley on the Sth February 197J and the 10th February 1971, the flood of the 26th January 1971 was more hazardous not only in its far greater peak flow rate but also in the rapidity of the rise rate of the flood which caused areas to change from safe to unsafe within a relatively few minutes. 
I refer now to some points in the Coroner's statement. The Coroner said: 
The drainage system in the Woden Valley was designed to flood from time to time, and water beyond the capacity of the drains was to be accommodated in the greenbelt and road systems adjacent to the drains. The Department of the Interior and Commissioner of Police were not advised by the National Capital Development Commission that the causeway at the Melrose Drive-Yamba Drive intersection was likely to flood, and that the adjacent roads would be subject to floodwaters from time to time; and it was contemplated by the National Capital Development Commission that the intersection and road system would be under the control of the police, or some authority, when danger to the public was imminent. 
On this point, the police have the responsibility of dealing with any danger or danger area. They did so on the night of 26th January and they are highly commended for their efforts. The Coroner's statement reflects the situation in quoting from the evidence of a senior member of the police force that 'it has always been the practice for members of the police force to make themselves aware of any situation likely to prejudice public safety and police are required to take such action as is necessary for the protection of life and property in such situations'. 
The Coroner in his statement said that the causeway at the Melrose Drive- Yamba Drive intersection was flooded to some degree up to 6 times a year since it was opened to the public in April 1967 but there was no evidence of the causeway, when flooded, being controlled by police prior to 25th January 1971. The evidence at the Coroners inquest was based on  Police Operations Room records checked back to the beginning of 1970. A check of earlier records discloses that police attended the intersection when it was under flood on 10th May 1968. The greatest depth of water was about I foot and there was little current. Traffic continued to cross the intersection under police direction. As far as can be ascertained, on no occasion prior to 26th January was the intersection rendered impassable to traffic by flood. 
In the light of the absence of any previous experiences of such a severe and sudden flood, it does not seem likely that prior formal advice would of itself have prevented the loss of life on the evening of 26th January. Indeed on all the evidence the flood water came down at a speed which no early warning system could conceivably have coped with - for the first of 2 cars travelling together encountered a thin film of water covering the road while the second car stopped and in no time its occupants were in difficulties. However, close day to day working relationships on the part of all authorities ate imperative. I look to a thorough and necessary mutual understanding to minimise dangers to the public from any foreseeable contingencies. In addition to the above working relationships, I have arranged that, when the National Capital Development Commission has completed the construction of a project, it will in the future formally advise the Depart ment of the Interior of any aspects of the project which could have special administrative significance. 
Again the Coroner recommended as follows: 
If.  they  have noi already done so. the Commissioner of Police and Department of Interior should establish immediately a system which will enable potential areas of danger in the Woden Valley to bc brought under police control before danger lo the public arises. 
Under established practice, police are informed whenever the Bureau of Meteorology issues a road weather alert. Potential dangers are also reported from police patrols and by the public. Police operations and procedures are set out in the report by the Department of the Interior. However, [ am pleased to report to the House that arrangements have now been made for the Bureau of Meteorology to advise the police if serious thunderstorms are likely. Other improvements have also been made in the procedures for alerting emergency services. 
For most occurrences these procedures will continue to ensure that potential areas of danger will be brought under police control before danger arises. For example on a number of occasions apart from 26th January 1971, the Melrose Drive- Yamba Drive-Yarra Glen intersection has been flooded but there was sufficient time for the police to take control. I am also pleased to report that ways and means are being investigated of improving the established system so that even at the shortest notice police control could bc available where needed. However, it is unlikely to be practicable to assure a certainty of police reaction in time to avoid danger under every circumstance. The Coroner also stated: 
The principle* adopted in the design of Melrose Drive, Yamba Drive, Yarra Glen as a junction in the flood plain of Yarralumla Creek was consistent with engineering practice in that it provider a conduit for norma! dry weather flow and the floodway consists of both the pipe conduit and u substantial greenbelt area and  roads  subject to flooding. 
The National Capital Development Commission reports that the crossing was provided as an interim east-west connection across the Woden Valley to meet traffic demands. The crossing is not part of an expressway system but adjoins the end of the present expressway. The major traffic route system has now been deter.mined and traffic build-up is makins; the construction of the planned interchange essential, and tenders are to be called in 1971-72. The experience of 26th January has indicated the need for further works in connection with such matters as the catch drain around Mount Taylor, the underpass at Beasley Street near Lambrigg Street and the drainage of water from the as yet undeveloped area of O'Malley. These works will proceed. The Institution of Engineers' report 'Australian Rainfall and Runoff', is the standard reference for drainage design in Australia. It is accepted standard practice to use locally applicable rainfall recurrence rates in determining drainage capacity. I have now traversed the Coroner's findings and the reports by the Departmant and the National Capital Development Commission. There can be no doubt that the storm which caused the flood was exceptional and extreme. It was sudden in onset and produced torrential rain. Its severity was intensified because the storm remained more or less stationary for about an hour. From data collected, mean rainfall over one square mile of southern Woden Valley suburbs in approximately one hour was estimated to be 3.5 inches. About 45 minutes elapsed from the time when the rain first began to fall to the time when severe flooding occurred at the causeway. In such a situation nothing could be done to prevent the tragedies. Even those present at the scenes of the tragedies from the outset were unable to help the victims. 
Now, I briefly summarise this statement as follows: Detailed investigations and reports by the Department of the Interior, the Department of Works and the National Capital Development Commission have been completed and are now available to the public. When the National Capital Development Commission has completed the construction of a project, it will in the future formally advise the Department of the Interior of any aspects of the project which could have special administrative significance. Arrangements have been made for the Bureau of Meteorology to advise the police if serious thunderstorms are likely in the Australian Capital Territory. Other improvements have been made in the procedures for alerting emergency services. Although not as a result of the flood, the particular crossing of the Yarralumla Creek where five lives are known to have been lost - and probably the sixth - will be replaced by a high level flood free interchange, construction of which is to commence next financial year. Once this work is completed this particular location should not be subject again to disasters of this kind. In the light of this tragic experience, other areas of Canberra which are or may be subject to flooding are being investigated to see whether safeguarding action or additional action is needed. Since the Woden Valley disasters, improvements in road warning arrange ments as well as other warning systems and improvements in emergency procedures have been made. Lessons which are of wider application have been learned from this disaster. 
However, no matter how effective these measures may be, there will remain an onus on the public to exercise great caution during extreme storms, bushfires or other natural hazards. Police, firemen and members of the public carried out a number of rescues. I draw particular attention to the conclusion reached in the report of the Department of the Interior that in effecting rescues these people exposed themselves  to  serious personal danger. They are to be commended for their efforts. 
I present the following paper: 
Flood in the Woden Valley, Australian Capital Territory - Ministerial Statement. 31st March 1971-  and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I now present the following papers: 
Department of the Interior Report on Woden Valley Flood of 26th January 1971; 
National Capital Development Commission Woden Valley Flooding. Report on Design and Construction Aspects; 
Transcript of Proceedings before the Coroner,  Mr W.  Nicholl, S.M., at Canberra on 15th March 1971. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read. a second. time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to effect changes to the Commonwealth Electoral Act to improve voting facilities for electors, to change some provisions  which  are no longer appropriate, to. introduce some new procedures and :to . remedy some defects in the existing electoral law. During the last session of the previous Parliament, the then Minister informed the House that a review of the provisions, of the Commonwealth Electoral Act and the Regulations thereunder had been in progress for some time, and that, although it was not possible to reach the point where amendments to the Act could be presented, to the Parliament for consideration before: the 1969 House of Representatives election, the Government's intention. was that the review should be resumed immediately after the elections and taken to finality as soon as possible. This has been done and the amendments we propose, are the subject of this Bill. 
While certain of the proposed amendments are formal or machinery in character and need little or no explanation, other provisions of the Bill seek to bring about much needed changes in the electoral law and it is to these that I will devote most of my remarks. It is proposed to extend the absent voting facilities on an Australiawide basis so that an elector who is outside the State or Territory for which he is enrolled may on polling day record an absent vote at any polling booth open on that day anywhere in the Commonwealth. Under the existing provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, absent voting is restricted to an elector who is outside the subdivision for which he is enrolled, but is within the State for which he is enrolled. Accordingly, an elector who on polling day is outside the State for which he is enrolled must record a postal vote and, unless he has made a prior application, his only recourse is to attend at the office of a Divisional Returning Officer or the Returning Officer for the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. However, in this day of extensive travel, many electors find themselves interstate on polling day, but without having made prior application for a postal vote it is then often impossible to get to the office cf a Divisional Returning Officer. A side effect of the proposed extension of absent voting will be an alteration to the grounds upon which an elector may make application for a postal vote. 
It is also proposed by this Bill to provide improved voting facilities for patients and inmates of hospitals, convalescent homes and institutions. The present policy is to establish a polling booth at each 50- bed hospital, etc. where suitable arrangements can be made with the appropriate authorities, but these booths are confined to fixed locations and, in practice, serve only the staff and walking patients. Thus, in order to vote, non-ambulant patients must make an application for a postal vote prior to polling day. Under the proposed law, the Presiding Officer, by arrangement with an appropriate person at the hospital or institution, will take the ballot-box from bed to bed and ward to ward. Scrutineers will, of course, be able to accompany the polling officials. The proposed provisions will have some flexibility in that at the larger hospitals and institutions, a static booth will operate throughout the hours of polling while at the same time one or more roving polling learns will attend to the voting requirements of the non-ambulant patients. At the smaller hospitals and institutions where two polling officials can ade quately handle the voting requirements of both the walking and the non-ambulant patients as well as the hospital staff, the one team of polling officials will operate from time to time, either as a static or a mobile booth as the occasion demands. Postal voting facilities will still be available to those patients who, because of the nature of their illness or impending treatment, will not be able to utilise the mobile booth facilities on polling day. 
The next proposed provision to which I shall refer arises from a problem which has caused much dissatisfaction among people who lose their franchise rights when they are posted overseas as representatives of a Government or a public authority. While an elector, who is only temporarily absent from the address for which he is enrolled (including a person posted overseas), may have his name retained on the electoral roll during his temporary absence, he loses his entitlement to enrolment if he ceases to live in the subdivision for which he is enrolled and he does not have a particular place of living within that subdivision to which he has a fixed intention of returning. We propose that where a person, who is qualified for enrolment, is living outside Australia in the service of the Commonwealth, a State or a public authority, but is not entitled to enrolment under the existing provisions because he does not have a particular place of living to which he intends to return, he shall, if he has a fixed intention of living in a particular subdivision when he returns to Australia, be entitled to enrol on the roll for that subdivision, but will be enrolled in respect of his overseas address. 
Under the existing law, a name may be removed from the electoral roll by objection on the grounds that the person does not live within the subdivision for which he is enrolled and has not so lived for one month  last past, but the authority to remove a name by objection is not supported by other complementary provisions, as it should be, limiting the person's right to enrolment to one month after he ceases to live in the subdivision. It is therefore desirable that the conditions under which a person loses his entitlement to enrolment be clarified. New provisions are added by this Bill to section 41 to specify that an elector ceases to be entitled to be enrolled one month after he ceases permanently to live in the subdivision for which he is enrolled. A new provision also makes it clear that a person, who is only temporarily absent from the subdivision for which he is enrolled, is entitled to have his name retained on the roll providing he has a place of living in the subdivision to which he intends to return for the purpose of continuing to live thereat. In addition, where a person is enrolled for an overseas address a new provision will afford continuity in entitlement to enrolment for up to one month after he returns to Australia. 
I now turn to a matter which the former Minister for the Interior introduced in this House during the latter stages of the last Parliament. I refer to the provision which deals with the position of a member of the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory who wishes to be nominated for election to the Commonwealth Parliament. In the case of a member of a State parliament the position is quite clear. Section 70 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act debars a person from nominating for election to the Commonwealth Parliament if he is, at the date of nomination, or has been within 14 days prior to the date of nomination, a member of the Parliament of a State. 
In the case of a member of the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory, if he were elected to the Commonwealth Parliament it is possible, though not certain, that he would need to resign from the Legislative Council to take his place in this Parliament. The Government believes that there should be no uncertainty in this matter. Just as it has been thought wise that the member of a State legislature should not be eligible to stand for election to this Parliament, so it is considered that a member of the Legislature of the Northern Territory should not be able to nominate. Accordingly, the Bill provides - and this is the sole purpose of this provision - that no person who is at the date of nomination, or was at any time within 14 days prior to the date of nomination, a member of the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory shall be capable of being nominated as a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. 
Provision is also made in the Bill to prevent a person from becoming a candidate for two or more Federal elections held on the same day. At the 1969 Federal elections, a person in South Australia - I am sure well known to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  - nominated as a candidate in the Senate election to fill a casual vacancy in that State as well as for the House of Representatives in the Division of Hindmarsh. Although no specific debarment is included in the existing law, the Government believes it was never intended that a person should have the right to such dual nomination and this is borne out by the fact that when consenting to a nomination and to act if elected, the person nominated must declare that he is qualified under the Constitution and the laws of the Commonwealth to be elected as a senator, or as a member of the House of Representatives, as the case may be. While the consent and declaration imply that a person may not become a candidate at more than one election held on the same day, a returning officer has no alternative where a person makes the required declaration other than to accept the nomination and leave the question to be decided in a court of disputed returns. In the South Australian case, an impossible situation would have resulted had the dual nominee been successful in both elections - certainly challenges would have been mounted in the court and most likely fresh elections would have been ordered. The Government considers that the position should be put beyond doubt by embodying provisions in the law to prevent dual nominations. The proposed new provisions, if they become law, will operate to invalidate nominations of the same person as a candidate at two or more elections held on the same day, unless that person withdraws his consent to the earlier nomination before consenting to a further nomination. Where nominations become invalid by this provision the deposits lodged by or on behalf of the candidate shall be forfeited. 
A further provision in the Bill will require each intending candidate to declare, at the time of nomination, that be has not changed his name within the previous 12 months, or, if he has changed his name within that period, to specify in the declaration his former name or former names. Changes of name by marriage are excepted. Concern has been expressed in the past at the possibility of a candidate assuming the name of, say, the sitting member, primarily for the purpose of gaining some political advantage at an election and thereby causing confusion in the minds of the electors. The Bill makes provision so that any former name of a candidate specified in the nomination paper may be shown on the ballot papers as an addition to the name under which the candidate is nominated where similarity in the names of two or more candidates is likely to cause confusion. 
At the Victorian Senate election held on 26th November 1966, how-to-vote cards obviously intended to mislead voters as to the political affiliation of certain candidates were printed and distributed. Under the existing provisions the printing and distribution of such material is not an offence provided it does not contain a representation of a ballot paper. However, pursuant to provisions contained in this Bill, it will be an illegal practice to print or distribute matter intended or likely to mislead voters, whether or not the offending document represents a ballot paper. 
The Government also proposes to insert a provision in the Act to enable candidates to take proceedings in the Supreme Court by way of an injunction to restrain the printing, publishing or distributing of any electoral advertisement, notice, handbill, pamphlet or card having thereon any directions intended or likely to mislead an elector, or containing any untrue or incorrect statement intended or likely to mislead or improperly interfere with an elector in relation to the casting of his vote. 
Another clause in this Bill deals with gifts, etc. by candidates. Under the existing law it is an offence for a candidate, who announces himself as a candidate within 3 months of polling day, to offer, promise or give directly or indirectly to any club or other association any gift, donation or prize but it does not embrace a person who announces himself as a candidate before the 3 months period. It is therefore proposed to prohibit any person who has at any time by act or statement announced himself, or allowed himself to be put forward, as a candidate for election, from making a gift, donation, prize, etc. within the 3 months period immediately prior to the day following polling day. The existing provisions are also unsatisfactory in their present form in that a candidate could unwittingly be in breach of the law by making a gift or donation at a time which subsequently turns out to be within 3 months of polling day. To meet this situation it is proposed to give a candidate a defence against a prosecution if he proves that, at the time when he made the gift, donation, prize, etc., he believed on reasonable grounds that the polling would not be within 3 months. 
The existing provisions of the Act impose a limit upon the amount which may be incurred by or on behalf of a candidate as electoral expenses. After each election, every candidate is required to submit to the Commonwealth Electoral Officer for the State a return of his electoral expenses. In addition, every organisation which has incurred expenses in an election is required to file a return with the Commonwealth Electoral Officer. 
Silting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Newspaper proprietors or publishers are also required to submit returns setting out the amount of electoral matter inserted in their newspapers, the amounts paid or owing therefor and the particulars of the organisations or persons authorising the insertions. No limitation is imposed under the Act upon expenditure by political organisations or upon the amount of electoral matter which might be published in a newspaper and the requirement upon these bodies to submit returns, which entail considerable preparation, serves no useful purpose except perhaps as a means of checking upon some aspects of the returns submitted by candidates. 
With respect to expenses by candidates, it has been argued that the present limits of $1,000 in the case of a Senate election and $500 in the case of a House of Representatives election are insufficient by present day standards. Accordingly, if the practice of limiting electoral expenses by law was to be continued, such amounts would need to be very substantially increased. In any event, it is logical that any obligation upon a candidate to disclose electoral expenses should be confined to expenses incurred by him personally or with his authority. It seems unreasonable that a candidate should be held responsible for expenses incurred in his interest, but without his authority. The expense provisions would be difficult to enforce and no prosecution has ever been made for breaches of these provisions. No expense returns are required in respect of State elections in New South Wales, Queensland or South Australia. 
After very careful consideration, the Government concluded that no good purpose is being served by limiting the amount which may be expended by a candidate at an election or by the submission of returns of expenses. Accordingly, the repeal of the relevant provisions is proposed by this Bill. Where a street is renumbered or re-named, advice is normally received from the municipal authorities and action is taken by the Electoral Registrar to amend the relevant roll entries, but the existing provisions do not clearly specify the authority for this action. Accordingly, it is proposed in the Bill to remedy this situation by providing a specific authority. A provision is included in the Bill to remedy a defect in section 117. Under that provision, a person's right to vote shall be deemed to have been challenged if the Presiding Officer puts any of the prescribed questions to a voter. However, under section 115 of the Act, the Presiding Officer must put some of the prescribed questions to every voter, thus the right to vote of every elector is deemed to have been challenged. This Bill will remove a conflict which presently exists between the Broadcasting and Television Act and the Commonwealth Electoral Act in relation to announcing the address of the author in a broadcast or telecast. While the Broadcasting and Television Act requires the announcement of the name only of the author in a broadcast or telecast, the Commonwealth Electoral Act requires the announcement of both the name and the address of the author. It is considered that the relevant provisions should be the same in both Acts. In any event, there is adequate safeguard in the Broadcasting and Television Act whereunder the name, address and occupation of the author must be retained by the station making the broadcast or telecast and must be furnished to the Australian Broadcasting Control . Board upon request. 
I now turn to a matter which causes some concern on the occasion of every election. The existing provisions prohibit the posting up or exhibiting on a building or place any electoral poster larger than 1,200 square inches in area. This restriction applies irrespective of whether the building or place is, or is not, a public place, and consequently, it is a contravention of the law to exhibit such a poster within a room being used for an election meeting, although relief from the 1,200 square inches restriction is given in respect of signs on or at the office or committee room of a candidate or political party. Under a provision proposed by this Bill, the exhibition of an electoral poster of any size will be permitted at a meeting held within a building in connection with an election or referendum. The Bill seeks to provide more realistic penalties for breaches of the electoral law. The provisions will introduce monetary penalties for certain offences where imprisonment terms only are now provided. Many of the existing monetary penalties have remained unchanged since 1902 and in most cases the amounts are completely out of balance with the alternative imprisonment terms. The present definition of 'candidate' is inappropriate where an election is uncontested. Accordingly, by this Bill the words day fixed for the polling for the election' are to be inserted in lieu of 'day of election'. 
Honourable members will appreciate that the proposed provisions are fairly complex and extensive and certain of them necessitate consequential amendments to the Electoral and Referendum Regulations and to the Regulations made under the Australian Capital Territory Representation Act and the Northern Territory Representation Act. It has therefore been provided that specific sections will come into operation upon royal assent and the remaining sections will come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation. This will allow time for the drafting of the necessary Regulations and the printing of other associated documents. I believe that the provisions in this Bill will be welcomed by all honourable members and T commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Daly) adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to bring several of the provisions of the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act into line with the proposed amendments of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Opportunity is also being taken to correct an anomaly in the prescription relating to informal postal ballot papers. Under the proposed amendments of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, the provisions relating to the submission of returns of expenses by organisations, etc., and the submission of returns by newspapers will be repealed, and this Bill repeals parallel requirements in relation to referendums. 
The terms of the existing section 48 of the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act make it an offence to print, publish or distribute any advertisement or document containing a representation of a ballot paper, or any representation apparently intended to represent a ballot paper, having thereon any directions intended or likely to mislead an elector in relation to the casting of his vote at a referendum, but it is not an offence where the adver tisement, etc., does not contain a representation of a ballot paper. Provisions contained in this Bill make it an offence to publish a misleading advertisement, etc., irrespective of whether such advertisement, etc., contains a representation of a ballot paper. 
It is proposed to add a new section to the Commonwealth Electoral Act to empower the supreme court of a State to grant an injunction in relation to the doing of an act that is an illegal practice. Clause 4 of this Bill makes the relevant provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act applicable to a referendum. Section 37 of the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act, which relates to the rates for telegrams, is amended by this Bill to accord with the relevant provisions of the Post and Telegraph Rates Act. 
The penalties prescribed for offences against the provisions of the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act are outofdate by present day values. The amounts of the penalties are updated by this Bill to accord with the penalties for parallel offences under the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
Sub-section 2a of. section 21 of the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act specifies that a ballot paper shall be informal only on grounds prescribed by Part XII of the Commonwealth Electoral Act and the regulations relating to postal voting. However, Part XII of the Commonwealth Electoral Act does not, in fact, prescribe as to the informality of ballot papers. Section 21 (2a) is therefore being amended to omit the reference to Part XII of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
We have had several discussions on this matter which have taken into account the matter raised by the honourable member, particularly as a result of the decision that was taken at a recent conference of the Returned Services League. A meeting is to be held at 3 p.m. today and I have arranged for a trustee of the War Memorial to be present at that meeting to give any information that honourable members may require with respect to the request that has been made. 
] will be pleased to discuss this matter with my colleague, the Attorney-General, to see just how serious the honourable member's offence was. 
I want to say at the outset that there is nothing new in the philosophy lying behind the motives that have brought this Bill into the House. It is the same old Labor politicking launched by one of the real warriors of the Labor Party and designed to try to wipe out the smaller parties and attempt to reduce the voice of the country voters to a mere whimper. I will concentrate on 2 major proposals contained in this Bill. Firstly I shall refer to the redistribution on a onevoteonevalue basis virtually and secondly to the first past the post electoral system. 
Since Federation, and before the Country Party came into existence, the electoral laws dealing with distribution have provided for permissible variation in the number of electors in divisions of 20 per cent upwards and 20 per cent downwards from the quota. The distribution commissioners in distributing States into divisions are required to take into specific account factors clearly related to the formation of the divisions in addition to the number of electors. In 1965 special emphasis was given to factors with respect to some allowance which had invariably been made by district commissioners. The 20 per cent maximum variation from the quota of electors remained unchanged. The primary purpose of the amendments in 1965 was to make clear requirements that hitherto could have been vaguely interpreted. This was done to ensure that the commissioners, who are required to interpret the provisions in the legislation, were able to do so in the 6 States uniformly. 
When talking of democracy it is a fundamental concept that the basis of elections should be clear and fair. The 20 per cent tolerance which has stood the test for nearly 70 years cannot be fairly judged in this place to be intended as a means of gerrymandering the Australian electorate. For reasons other than political reasons - geographical reasons, density of population, communications and so on - the 20 per cent margin has been acceptable for the last 70 years. 
This was so even whilst the Labor Government was in office. Surely the principle of equality in the value of votes would also be infringed by the  10  per cent margin proposed in the honourable member's Bill. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  says he sets out to establish a principal of equality of votes by abandoning the  20  per cent margin. But then he sets a  10  per cent margin. Where is the consistency? Where is the principle to which he subscribes? Obviously the honourable member for Grayndler - though not the father of the House he would probably be the stepfather of the House - has failed to do his homework when he contends that this is a gerrymander principle to suit the Australian Country Party. The truth of the matter is that all 3 Parties in this House have a share of rural constituencies throughout Australia, so political considerations must be set aside. The people living in these areas under great difficulties and disadvantages should not be thrown onto the scrap heap as this Bill would do. 
This so-called principle is unrealistic when viewed in its proper perspective. Even the most ardent advocates of the one vote one value principle would recognise that exact equality of electorates is not feasible and could not be sensibly implemented at the expense of ignoring the features which have been long established as having a logical bearing on this matter. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table prepared by the Chief Electoral Officer relating to the number of electors represented by one member of parliament and showing the largest and smallest constituencies represented by one member of parliament in several countries including Australia, the United Kingdom and Canada. 
Table prepared by Chief electoral Officer relating to: 
NUMBER OF ELECTORS REPRESENTED BY ONE MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT 
Largest and smallest constituencies represented by one member of Parliament in several countries: 

<graphic href="071131197104015_38_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197104015_38_1.jpg"></graphic>

I am very glad indeed that the Australian Labor Party has come out in its true colours on this issue. At last the country people can recognise the ballyhoo of the Australian Labor Party when it expresses concern for rural communities. Where do people like the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  really stand on this issue? If they stand for the one vote one value principle their concern for the country should be taken for what it really is. This Bill was agreed to by the Labor Caucus of which they are members and if they do agree with this principle let them get up here and say so. If they disagree with it let them say so also, otherwise they will be revealed as completely politically insincere and indifferent to the needs of the people they represent. 
This measure is designed to reduce the influence of country people and country communities in the national Parliament - leaving aside the political party considerations - not at a time when there is affluence in these rural areas and not at a time when they do not have a need for a say in the government of this country, but at a time when country towns and cities across the face of this nation are undergoing one of the worst recessions in living memory. Hundreds of people have been crippled by drought in Queensland and New South Wales and hundreds would have been forced off their farms and away from country areas and into bankruptcy by the recent floods in New South Wales and Victoria but for the flood relief measures of the State Liberal-Country Party Governments. Tens of thousands of people in the rural constituencies needing a voice in the State and national Parliaments have been hit by falling wool prices, wheat quotas and contracting overseas markets, demands for higher wages and Labor's policy of supporting  Mr Hawke's  demands for a 35- hour week. The Labor Party takes this opportunity to reveal to the rural community just how insincere its approach is to that community's problems. It waits until a man is down and then puts in the boot. This is what the Labor Party has done and I repeat that if honourable members on the other side of the House representing rural constituencies have a conscience on this matter let them stand up in this House, instead of merely trying to interject, and defend the people they profess to represent. I cannot for the life of me understand why the Opposition would want to take away from these unfortunate people a voice in this place. 
The Labor Party wants to restrict the Redistribution Commissioners to a 10 per cent variation of the quota when drawing boundaries, not taking, into account the numbers of electors in those constituencies but the population as a whole, including a lot of new Australians who are not yet naturalised and who have not yet got a vote. This device would tie the Redistribution Commissioners and cannot give weight to the needs of rural areas. What sort of electorates would we have if the Commissioners had to adhere to these limitations in divisions like Kalgoorlie, which covers nearly one third of the Commonwealth of Australia? Obviously it is aimed at getting more electors into these large country divisions, making them even larger, and taking electors away from some of the electorates like Grayndler, West Sydney and Port Melbourne where there is already a high proportion of new Australians not yet enrolled who are wait ing to be naturalised. The Labor Party wants to tie a redistribution to people instead of electors, another cunning device to increase the size of large rural divisions. 
With this Bill Labor would abolish country seats, and this is perfectly in line with the philosophy and policies utterly dominated by the big city votes, by  Mr Hawke  and the left wing union supporters and by the blind urge for power at any price. Opposition members, particularly those who have been in this House a long time, think that if they do not get to power soon they will not get a ministry at all. I understand their frustrations. 
I am saying that the Bill would in fact be an injustice to people generally and would contrive a situation whereby the Labor Party could easily get on to the Treasury benches in a way that I do not think is proper. It is willing to ignore the Commonwealth Electoral Act which specifically lays down the right to have country seats with fewer numbers of voters than the big metropolitan areas, lt is willing to fly in the face of economic facts and have city members deciding what is best for country industries. It is willing to accelerate the process of centralisation in the most centralised and urbanised nation on earth, occupying the largest island continent on earth, thus intensifying all the problems of pollution and environmental control. This sort of thing would be part of a vicious circle that would tend to accentuate a trend that is already present, forcing more and more people to the city areas. We should be adopting policies to give people more voice in the rural areas so that they might have a bigger determination to provide the facilities to attract more people to country areas and relieve the city areas of some of their problems. You cannot convince me that the people living in Angledool, a village 1 know well, in the electorate of Darling have the same chance of receiving service from their hard working member - and he is a hard working member - as those living in Marrickville, where the honourable member for Grayndler might see them walking down the street every Saturday morning. Just look at the size of his electorate, lt is only 8.5 square miles. 
It is a pocket handkerchiefsized electorate. To introduce a one vote, one value concept would accentuate this inequity of representation and service. It would not be in the best interests of the people because the voters in the large areas today do not have the same privileges as those who live in the smaller electorates and who are closer to their representatives. 
The Bill would wipe out numerous rural seats - a fantastic proposition. It would reduce the influence in the national Parliament of the rural workers, the wheat growers, the wool growers and, indeed, the influence of all the citizens who live in country towns and country areas. It is an extraordinary time for the Australian Labor Party to come into this House and introduce a Bill to undertake that task. I shall deal now with the second part of the Bill, which is the first past the post system. Clearly, this is an attempt by the Labor Party to destroy the Democratic Labor Party, the Australia Party and any other small parties in the Australian system. The Labor Party apparently believes that it has some kind of divine right - some right in perpetuity - to electoral support in Australia. Under this Bill, it would be difficult for new parties ever to be established or to have any influence in the composition of the national Parliament. I do not believe that this is in the best interests of democracy. Provision should exist whereby any group of people can form a new party if they think it necessary and the atmosphere in which it can grow should be available. 
A Labor government, according to the terms of the Bill, would assume the right to decide who shall compose the Government and the Opposition. This is a blatant attempt to disfranchise those Australian voters who support neither the Australian Labor Party nor the Liberal or Country Parties. The Government will have no part of it. Old feuds and hatreds of Labor politics are revealed once again in the desperate attempt in this Bill to reach out for power. The real test of an electoral system is whether the outcome of an election truly reflects the wishes of the majority of the electors in the electorate in which the election is being held. The first past the post system would operate satisfactorily where there are 2 candidates for a single member constituency. However, where there are more than 2 candidates this can have a most serious effect in that it can and does lead to the election of a candidate who is supported by only a minority of the electors. 
The honourable member is wrong. Australia can rightly claim to have led the world in electoral reforms, being the first country to adopt preferential voting and one of the first to grant the franchise to women. These are just two examples. The Australian ballot system is recognised world wide, yet now we are asked to turn the clock back and to revert to the 19th century concept of restricting the voters to a first choice only and to ignore the principle of allowing the determination of the candidate most favoured by the majority of an electorate where more than 2 candidates are standing. What a shameful, regressive step. This is stepping back into the Dark Ages. Although no system is absolutely perfect, the preferential system of voting is recognised as one of the fairest in the world. It has been accepted in our national elections for 40 years and it is accepted in every Australian State. But this is not good enough for the Labor Party, so the honourable member for Grayndler seeks to destroy the concept. This would obviously suit Labor and would result in the reduction of the influence of country voters and those who support the smaller parties. Tt is completely unacceptable to me and, I am sure, to the nation as a whole. 
Let us look briefly at the record of achievement that has occurred under this Government within the present electoral system which has elected consistently for 22 years a government that has given stable government to the country and allowed for tremendous growth and development. In 1949, when this Government came to power, the gross national product was Sl0,000m; last year it had trebled to $30,000m. The great primary industries increased production threefold. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  will soon appreciate why I have made this passing reference. All the balanced development that has taken place in Australia has taken place because of balanced government brought about by a balanced electoral system. 
I am sorry if the Opposition cannot take it. This is one of the most shameful pieces of pseudo legislation ever to come before this House. For the past 22 years the Labor Party has been consistently beaten in its bid for power because people will not accept city orientated Socialist philosophies. Labor's reactionary stance has been not to change its policies to keep up with modern demands, needs and trends but to try to change the system itself to force Socialistic oppressive theories upon the Australian electorate. No wonder the people have kept honourable members opposite on the Opposition benches for so long. They recognise in Labor the complete lack of responsibility which allows it to sponsor a Bill of this kind. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the honourable member for Grayndler, the honourable member for Dawson, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and, in fact, all members of the Opposition who represent rural constituencies, should hang their heads in shame. Today, once and for all, they have shown the people of Australia the sense of desperation and almost hysterical desire for power that resides within their bosoms. They seek to replace the present electoral system with this self-seeking manipulation of the system to the advantage of the Labor Party. This is what all honourable members are being asked to vote upon today - to gag the voice of rural Australia in a time of great difficulty and to disfranchise the hundreds of thousands of people in city and country areas who have the temerity to prefer policies other than those that are espoused by the Liberal-Country Parties and the Labor Party itself. I hope that the Australian people will see the sinister motives that lie behind this Bill and I hope that the House will really wake up to what is contained in the Bill and treat it as a censure of the Australian Labor Party. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
and (2) As official statistics are not maintained by the Electoral Office showing the number of votes recorded for the several political parties, the answer to the question has been compiled in relation to the candidates as grouped on the ballot-papers. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The pressures from the UAR upon the War Graves Commission have not ceased. The UAR remains firm on the removal of war graves from the city of Alexandria, but negotiations are proceeding and I gather that they are at a very delicate stage. I share the honourable member's hope that these discussions and negotiations will reach a satisfactory conclusion in the not too distant future. 
 The ordinances before the House provide that leases in Canberra will be sold at auction on the basis of reserve prices which will recoup to the Commonwealth the cost of development of land offered for leasing. Merely nominal rents are introduced for old and new leases, and rates are substantially increased to return for the present no less than the same revenue that would have been received from land rent and rates had the land charging system not been changed. Details of these changes were made known to members of this Parliament last October and have been widely convassed since. The simple, but effective changes offer answers to the grumbling uncertainty about whether Canberra can pay its way like other cities. The change retains all the advantages of the leasehold system, but puts Canberra's financing on a simple explainable basis. 
The change emanates from an inquiry into the rent and rates system by a departmental committee following the recommendation of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory as far back as 1965. There was strong criticism of the old system from such diverse bodies as the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council, the Canberra Chamber of Commerce and other groups. The change has been welcomed in Canberra as clarifying a previously confused picture and introducing certainty into Canberra's urban affairs. This is not a shooting from the hip act as the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has just suggested. It is not a measure which has come into this House suddenly; it has been introduced after a lot of consideration and thought. There is no interference with the leasehold system of land tenure. The adoption of peppercorn rents in no way weakens lease contracts. It does not imply a drift towards the grant of freehold. There is absolutely no weakening of planning and development controls built into the National Capital Development Commission Act, the leasehold arrangements developed under the City Area Leases Ordinance, the lease documents themselves and the administrative processes. Indeed, the system has been strengthened under these ordinances. 
The Government will continue to use the simple and secure control over the development, use and redevelopment of land, which the Canberra leasehold system confers. It is acquiring all the remaining rural freehold in the Australian Capital Territory in order to bring it into use under the leasehold system. The ordinances went through the normal Canberra referrals. Improvements were suggested, such as the need to protect sub-lessees whose contracts contain rise and fall clauses for rates but not for rents, and will be introduced shortly by ordinance. The Seat of Government (Administration) Act, Section 9, provides that no Crown land shall be sold or disposed of as freehold. Urban land has been leased since the first sale in 1924 and will go on being leased under these ordinances. Land made available to the public for business, residential or other purposes as leasehold has specified land use written into the lease. Construction must be to specified standards and value. Covenants ensure that land leased is developed for the desired purpose within a specified time. Town planning requirements are achieved through the simple and economic mechanism of this system. Resale before meeting the building covenant and in some cases before elapse of a defined period, is denied. AH this continues under these ordinances. Leases have been subject to land rent at 5 per cent per annum of the unimproved value of the land at the time it was leased. Leased blocks were revalued during every 20th year of the lease. Land rent was then adjusted to the new valuation again at 5 per cent per annum. This has now been changed. 
Cash premiums from leases have been high. Currently there are about 27,000 leases in Canberra. Since the early sixties, a period covering growth from about 7.000 to 27.000 leases, people generally offered competitive premiums to the Commonwealth for land even at times of ample land supply. As well, many people purchased developed leases from earlier lessees at full market value. People have offered, at auction, premiums low in some cases hut in others as high as $21,000 for residential blocks. And there has been a rapid increase in premiums offered for business sites. Having paid cash premiums, leaseholders had other outgoings in the form of land rent, general rates, water rates and sewerage rates. Public discussion in the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council, the 'Canberra Times' and elsewhere had long drawn attention to confusion about the respective purposes of land rent and rates, and stressed the need to remove the uncertainty about land rent commitments after the 20 years reappraisements. and iron out the gross anomalies. At the end of 20 years the value of each lease was reappraised. If, in addition to higher realistic rates, land rent of 5 per cent of the new higher unimproved value was charged, the burden would have become intolerable. Residential blocks could - and did - on reappraisement, increase in value for rental purposes as much as 16-fold. Values for business leases increased up to 2,500-fold. 
Grave inequalities in the old lease arrangements occurred because leases were necessarily - and still are - offered at different times. This has happened progressively over the years. Residential lessees in the same street having the same quality land and the same amenities had outgoings varying one from the other by as much as 100 per cent. Local suburban shops paid higher land rents than some large city stores. Businesses, both big and small, successful and marginal, running towards the end of the 20 year period were uncertain about the demands to be made on them, with every reason to expect that they would be very substantial. Who would defend such a system or disallow these ordinances which have corrected it? Who seeks to extract political advantage out or. a complex issue by creating such confusion? 
Are members of the Australian Labor Party, with typical, cynical misinformed politicking and disregard for the people of Canberra, once more trying to seek some advantage out of the confusion? The reappraisal system when applied to residential leases very often meant that the new values were made at the time many people were retiring on fixed incomes. The position with rates was not so crippling for lessees. Rates charged bore no direct relationship to municipal expenditure and were therefore neither definable nor defensible. A credible pattern of rating was essential to any responsible community participation in Ideal affairs. And there was real merit in seeking an arrangement which, while continuing to offer sensibly priced land, speedily recovered the full cost of providing such leases. 
Land is now disposed of under leasehold by auction as before. Reserve prices reflect the quality of the land and share out equitably the costs of new land acquisition and development between new lease-holders. This capacity to offer land for sale over the counter, having first offered it through the competitive auction system, is very much to Canberra's advantage. At the second auction in March, 417 residential leases were sold and the average price paid was $3,074.  So  much for the fear that the new system would lead to inflated prices. A gross sum  of  $2. 5m was realised at the March sale, which represents  a  profit  to  the Crown and the taxpayer - available immediately for re-investment - of at least Si. 5m. There has been no change in Mie basic conditions of  leases being offered under the new arrangements. The old system of offering some residential land at restricted auctions continues. This enables genuine home seekers to obtain leases, on terms, without entering into competition with professional developers and builders. Business sites are auctioned to the highest bidder. The opening bid required is 75 per cent of the current value of the land for rating as  assessed  at the time of offer. Special provisions are made for the treatment of applications for leases for schools, churches, clubs, charitable institutions and so on. 
The Government is the sole supplier of land. Speculative 'buying of unserviced land is not possible. Control of the usage of leased land remains unimpaired. Lessees may apply to the Supreme Court to change the use, and, unless the Court is prevented from dealing with the matter by Ministerial veto, objectors can state their objections to the Court. If the Court orders a change, then the lessee pays to the Commonwealth 50 per cent of any value added to the land less $1,500. This arrangement provides incentive for necessary redevelopment, but gives the Commonwealth half the gain in value. The virtual removal of land rent has enabled the striking of a general rate at a realistic level based upon updated valuations. Thus equity has been achieved in the distribution of the burden over ail land holders. 
Land holders who are dissatisfied with their rating valuations have 3 successive avenues of appeal, first to the Minister for reconsideration, then if dissatisfied to an independent appeal board, and then to the Supreme Court. Because their land values are higher, businessmen, representing 3 per cent of leaseholders, will pay 42 per cent of the total rate revenue, whereas they used to pay 35 per cent of the combined income from rent and rates. There has been an ill informed campaign of opposition to the new arrangements by 3 small organisations seemingly devoted to the single tax theory propounded during the 19th century by Henry George, out of context with the situation which prevails in this country today. Their philosophies were summarily rejected by the New South 
Wales royal commission in 1961. which was set up to inquire into rating, land valuation and local government finance. 
There is no change in leasehold tenure or control. Let us be perfectly clear about what the agents of disallowance are suggesting. They are saying disallow these ordinances and create a situation where most of the people of Canberra will be required to pay the old land rent plus the new general rates and water and sewerage rates. They must know the Minister is not empowered to reduce the general rate for the year once having determined it. This would suit the critics who assert Canberra people should be milked dry both through realistic rates and so-called full economic land rent. Let us look seriously at the consequences of the action proposed by the Opposition. Disallowance of these ordinances would leave land bidders at the next auctions without any idea about future financial commitments. These auctions cannot be deferred or cancelled without affecting the building industry and without creating artificial land shortages with effect on prices. 
Considerable confusion would arise in this city between businessmen, residential lessees and persons seeking to transfer leases, all of which might be welcomed by a minority in the legal fraternity but which most would reject as being totally unjust. The time to have objected was last year when the changes were announced within the context of the interim land rents ordinance, and not now after 747 leases have been sold under the new system. 
To sum up the changes are not complex. In future, residential leases will be offered for sale at auction on the basis of reserve prices which will overall recoup to the Commonwealth the cost of development of the land offered for leasing. Business leases will be offered at a reserve price representing 75 per cent of the current value. Special leases will continue to be made available under especially favourable conditions for church and charitable institutions. Nominal rents are to be introduced both for old and new leases. All leases have been revalued, a process which will be repeated every 3 years, and general rates have been substantially increased to provide for more realistic municipal revenues. Municipal accounts have been introduced and progressively these will be refined. 
These changes will put the costs and the returns from Canberra's development and its municipal management on a realistic basis, setting the stage for future growth yet still offering the cheapest fully serviced residential land now available in any capital city and fully protecting all the purposes - planning and financial - of leasehold. I strongly recommend these sensible, appropriate changes to the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Electoral Divisions are divided into Subdivisions for administrative and economic reasons. Rolls in Subdivision form can be more readily and efficiently up-dated and maintained than rolls in Division form. Rolls for use at elections must be brought up-to-date with the official rolls held by the Electoral Registrars and these up-dated copies constitute the Certified Lists for use in the polling booths. The number of Certified Lists prepared for an election must match the number of polling places for a Subdivision. If a Division roll comprised a single alphabetical list of names, the preparation of the Certified Lists would be a tremendous task on the occasion of an election, except where the rolls could be printed as at the issue of the Writs, as there are more than 150 polling places in some Divisions. 
Yes. Sec 1. 
Before an elector could vote as an ordinary voter at any polling booth in the Division for which he is enrolled, it would be necessary to equip each polling both in the Division with a full Division roll brought up-to-date with the official roll for use as the Certified List. Having regard to the number of polling places in the several Divisions and the amount of work which would bc involved, the proposition is not favoured. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:- 
The question of introducing legislation in the States and the Commonwealth Territories, aimed at making the wearing of seat belts compulsory, has been discussed from time to time by the Australian Transport Advisory Council - most recently at its meeting in February 1970. 
At that meeting the Council endorsed the principle of compulsion, but the members recognised that there were difficulties associated with it. 
Whether the wearing of seat belts in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory should be compulsory is being studied. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is a position of Director, Projects and Services Branch in the Welfare Division of the Northern Territory Administration, lt is a new position and has no permanent occupant at present. 
The former Director, Welfare Branch, who is now Assistant Administrator, Welfare Division, is carrying out the statutory responsibility of the Director of Welfare for the time being. 
Yes. 
and (5) Applications for the position are being treated in confidence in accordance wilh accepted practice. These applications are being considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
Accident characteristics and patterns at locations with a record of large numbers of accidents or with a high proportion of injuries or fatalities are studied systematically so as to determine the need for remedial measures. As a result of these studies action is taken from lime to time at different places to 'install devices with the aim to reducing the number of accidents. 
 It is important to point out that the suggestion made by the 'Canberra News' in an article last night that reports from my Department and the National Capital Development Commission deal exclusively with hydrology is completely untrue. The report from the NCDC in particular deals deliberately with roadwork practice and describes in some detail the steps taken in design and in the acceptance of these works forming the conjunction of Yarra Glen with Melrose Drive and Yamba Drive. The principles adopted in the design are summarised in the report. These principles are consistent with engineering practice for the design of low level junctions in a flood plain. The Press references that have been made to the work of  Mr Sherrard  published in Australian Road Practice' are quoted in part and are out of context. Nevertheless the principles quoted do confirm the acceptability of the design. It should be noted particularly that these quotations in  Mr Sherrard's  book refer to causeways built into country roads and do not refer to situations where normally there is available on hand traffic control and direction. I am sure that  Mr Sherrard,  who incidentally is a member of a consultant firm to the NCDC and to the Department of the Interior in regard to traffic matters would be horrified to know how his comments on highway construction were being quoted in a completely urban context. 
In reply to the other part of the honourable member's question, 1 have examined all aspects of this matter - the coronial inquiry, the reports of the Department of the Interior, the NCDC and the Department of Works and the various statements and criticisms made since my report to Parliament. I am convinced that no worthwhile good could come out of a further public inquiry. Work has been put in hand and all of the other measures that are reported in my statement are envisaged to try to prevent any recurrence of a tragedy of the kind that occurred on January 26th. The inquiry sought would have the effect in my belief of delaying still further the necessary measures and 1 am not prepared to allow this to happen. Of course, there can never be a guarantee that natural disasters will not claim the lives of citizens in any community. However, I am convinced that no good purpose would be served by my ordering a further inquiry. 
Police inquiries into the disappearance of Miss Keren Rowland on the night of 26th February are still continuing. There has been nationwide Press and police co-operation with the Australian Capital Territory police. Some 25 A.C.T. police officers have been involved in inquiries, about 300 people have been interviewed and nearly 200 separate items have been documented for investigation. The A.C.T. police have sought the assistance of both the New South Wales and Victorian police forces and have obtained advice from them. I know that A.C.T. police officers have gone to Sydney on 3 occasions and that the Commissioner himself has gone to Melbourne on one occasion in connection with the case. 
I believe that the A.C.T. Police Force has sufficient resources at its disposal to cope with the case, but nevertheless it is seeking the aid of some of the States. Extensive searches have been made on foot, the lake has been dragged and scientific tests have been carried out on clothing and other articles. Two vital aspects remain. One is the identity of the driver of the vehicle which pulled up near the missing girl on Parkes Way that evening and the other is the identity of the people in a stationary car on the TaragoBraidwood Road that night. In reply to the other question about whether the A.C.T. police suspect murder, I intimate that the officer in charge has certain theories which, in respect to the relatives and those con cerned, I do not think it would be fair for me to state publicly here. Two A.C.T. police officers are continuing a full time inquiry into this case, and others will be directed to assist as developments might warrant. I have with me a copy of the Commissioner's latest report, which he said I could hand to any honourable member who might be interested in the case. I should be pleased to give it to the honourable member for Fremantle. 
I am well aware of the interest of the honourable member for the Northern Territory in this matter and the numerous times that he has made representations to me on it. The Government's objective of reduced expenditure has been achieved by a short term deferral of contracts for a number of projects on the Northern Territory works programme. Contracts for some of these projects have now been let, for example the Nakara subdivision development, housing in Darwin and Katherine and sewerage at Maningrida. The rest of the programme will go ahead, including the augmentation of the water supply and subdivisional works at Alice Springs and the construction of the Frances Bay access road. There is now expected to be a reduction of expenditure of about $2m out of a total of S3 1.5m estimated in the 1970-71 Budget. No works have been dropped from the programme^ - I am sure the honourable member will be pleased to hear this - to achieve the economies, but for technical purposes not associated with economy measures 2 items cannot be committed by June 1971. These are the Darwin central zone sewerage and the augmentation of the Darwin city area electricity transmission. These 2 items will be included in the 1971-72 programme at an estimated cost of $6m. The Government is now considering the 1971- 72 works programme for the Territory and details will be announced at Budget time. 
by leave - I wish to make a short statement to correct a detail of an answer which 1 gave to the honourable member for Fremantle relative to the disappearance of Miss Keren Rowlands. In reply to the question I said that the Commissioner for the Australian Capital Territory Police had gone to Melbourne, lt was not the Commissioner: it was the Inspector in charge of the investigation. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Appropriation Bill (No. 4). Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I am well aware of the agitation that has been going on, since I have been the Minister for the Interior, for sewerage works at Katherine, and I am also well aware of the representations that the honourable member for the Northern Territory has made. I can inform him and the House that planning is proceeding on the basis of construction commencing in 1971- 72. It could commence early in 1972. But, as with all works of this nature costing more than $750,000, the matter would have to be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works before any consideration could be given to it. If normal approvals are granted, therefore, the works would be subject to budgetary considerations for next year's Estimates. 
-To summarise and answer gome of the comments that have been made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  I would like to make the point that whilst many of the international agreements for commodities do not necessarily have facilities for buffer stocks we do have an International Grains Agreement - the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  introduced the International Wheat Agreement Bill in this House last week- an international sugar agreement and an international coffee agreement as well as one for tin. Each of these agreements is tailored to the needs of the particular industry. I agree that we should move towards these objectives. 
The citicism was levelled that perhaps the Australian Country Party should be doing more in this field. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that the former Leader of the Country Party, the Bight Honourable John McEwen, probably did more than any other man to try to bring about . an international trading approach to many of our commodities. There is nothing doctrinaire about the Government's approach to these matters. It has been a basically pragmatic policy, taking each commodity in turn after consultation with the interested countries. The Government endeavours to devise an appropriate agreement which will stabilise prices for the commodity concerned at reasonable levels equitable to consumers and exporters alike. It cannot and does not ignore the wishes of the industry concerned. 
The Government has endeavoured in all cases to confer with and ascertain the wishes of the various industries producing these commodities. Hence it looks to their advice on an industry basis before undertaking the initiative for a commodity agreement. I remind the House that Australia is a party to the International Sugar Agreement, the International Grains Arrangement, the International Tin Agreement and an agreement for the coffee industry. They are all international agreements. Since the International Sugar Agreement was brought into effect prices have trebled. Today sugar is selling on the international market at about $Stg46 a ton. The honourable member for Angas raised several points, one of which related to a proposed White Paper on trade and international trade agreements. He suggested that I might bring to the notice of the Minister for Trade and Industry the comments that he had made in this respect. I shall certainly do that. Beyond that I have nothing further to add. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The timing of the construction of major road works in the A.C.T. is continually under review by the National Capital Development Commission. This review includes consideration of the matters raised in the honourable member's question. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$600,000. If capital investment in roads servicing mines ($2,060,000), the iron ore bulk handling facility at Darwin ($3,200,000) and facilities provided by Commonwealth Railways ($6,000,000) is also included, the sum is $11,860,000. 
Rum Jungle. 
The Joint Study Group on Northern Territory Constitutional Development completed its first week of discussions last week. All those who attended the discussions felt that the outcome had been most useful and constructive. Much has already been accomplished in the consideration of the issues raised by both parties - those officers representing the 'various Commonwealth departments and those representatives of the Legislative Council, the elected representatives - in seeking the new State-like responsibilities for the Northern Territory Legislative Council. The Joint Study Group has adjourned to allow of a more detailed study of the points that have already been discussed, It is anticipated that the group will meet in Darwin on 1st June. Therefore, there will be an examination of those points that have already been discussed, and they will be discussed in greater depth. For my own part, I am delighted - and I am sure that the honourable member for the Northern Territory will be delighted - that these discussions have commenced on such a cordial and constructive note. If the discussions continue along this course it will be in the best interests of the Northern Territory and, indeed, the Commonwealth as a whole. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Victoria River Downs Station- 4,772 square miles, (b) Wave Hill Station - 6,157 square miles. 
On the Victoria River Downs Station thereare 3 outstations (Moolooloo, Mt Stanford and Pigeon Hole) and on the Wave Hill Station there is 1 outstation at Cattle Creek. 
Victoria River Downs Station- $3,817.60 per annum, (b) Wave Hill Station- $7,388.40 per annum. 
No. 
(a) Victoria River Downs Station - 30th June 2013. (b) Wave Hill Station- 30th June 2004. 
Productivity: Non-farm Sector (Question No. 3058) 
This whole question is a matter for the Government to consider, and the Government will be making a decision in the light of the judgment in this case. Of course, there is the possibility of an appeal to the High Court of Australia. I will make it my business to look at the various points that the Leader of the Opposition has raised, and I will give him an answer in due course. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not the practice to make public information relating to individual commercial enterprises. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
10 November 1970 (1969-70 report). 
(a) Tabled pursuant to statute - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answers to Question No. 1677 (Hansard dated 16th September 1970). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See attached table. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member is set out in the table below. Returns are influenced by such factors as climate, average consumption and the proportions of different consumer classes (e.g. commercial/industrial, domestic). Without detailed knowledge about these factors it would be difficult to make valid comparisons between the returns received by the electricity undertakings in the cities listed. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no known cases of sub-letting as such. Some prospecting authority holders, however, are known to have entered into contracts under which the other parly has agreed to undertake prospecting work and has been given an option over any mineral leases granted to the prospecting authority holder. 
It is understood  Mrs G.  Stevens of Adelaide and her 2 daughters have entered into contractual arrangements with Queensland Mines Ltd along the lines mentioned in (1) in respect of a prospecting authority held by  Mrs Stevens  and her 2 daughters in which a uranium deposit has been discovered. 
Under the Northern Territory Mining Ordinance there is no way in which prospecting authorities can be transferred or sub-let. However, the Ordinance does not preclude contractual arrangements of the type referred to in (1) and (2). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to Question No. 141 (Hansard' dated 10th June 1970) and Question No. 1678 (Hansard dated 16th September 1970). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) United States of America- Unless State Legislation prescribes lesser amounts permissible expenditure for candidates is limited to- 
House of Representatives: $2,500 or 3c for each vote cast for the office at the last general election but not exceeding $5,000. Senate: $10,000 or 3c for each vote cast at last Senate election but not over $25,000. No limitations of any kind are placed on the personal receipts or expenditure of candidates for President and Vice-President. United Kingdom - The maximum expenditure which may be incurred by a candidate is: 
In county constituencies - £750 plus ls for every 6 entries in the register of electors and for any less number of entries above a multiple of 6. In borough constituencies - £750, plus ls for every 8 entries in the register of electors and for any less number of entries above a multiple of 8. New Zealand - The total election expenses of a candidate shall in no case exceed £500. (l)(b) United States of America- The law provides that political committees (the equivalent of political parties) may neither receive nor spend more than $3m during any calendar year. The ceiling does not apply to committees which confine their activities to nomination for federal office. It does not restrict the number of interstate committees, each of which may receive or expend funds within the designated ceiling. 
United Kingdom - There is no limitation on the expenditure incurred by an organisation. 
New Zealand - The New Zealand Electoral Act does not provide for the limitation of expenditure incurred by organisations. 
Under United States legislation every candidate for  Senator must  file with the Secretary of the Senate a correct and itemised account of each contribution received, and each expenditure made, by the candidate. Every candidate for Representative, every political committee and every individual mustfile with the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives an itemised detailed statement of expenditure. All contributions made to or for a political committee or candidate must also be reported by that committee or candidate. Neither the  President  nor the Vice-President are required to report their personal receipts or expenditures. 
United Kingdom legislation provides that all expenditures made by or in support of a particular candidate must be made by or through the election agent of the candidate. The election agent must submit to the Returning Officer a sworn account of all the election expenditures and a statement of money or securities received by the agent for campaign expenditure. 
The New Zealand legislation provides that every candidate shall submit to the Returning Officer a report of his expenses, including bills and parlicu- lary all expenditures of over £NZ2. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The position of Inspector (Weights and Measures) has been vacant since15th January 1970. 
Applications have been invited for the position on 3 separate occasions. 
A suitable qualified applicant has been selected for appointment to the position. 
A review is being undertaken of the structure and salary rates for positions concerned with the Weights and Measures function in consultation with the Public Service Board. 
The Superintendent is responsible for technical advising on Weights and Measures functions generally, including matters relating to the administration of relevant Australian Capital Territory Ordinances and Regulations. The Inspector of Weights and Measures conducts inspections and prepares reports. 
and (7) The functions of both positions have been carried out by the Superintendent on a reduced scale pending the appointment of a new Inspector. Some assistance has been given to the Superintendent on more routine matters by another officer of the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have conferred with the Postmaster-General and the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not yet had a proposal before it to build a television and radio tower on Black Mountain in the Australian Capital Territory! 
to (14) A proposal to meet the future demands of television and radio relay services in the Australian Capital Territory which could involve co-masting on Black Mountain, is being examined by Departments with a view to submitting recommendations to the Government. A statement will be made at the appropriate time, when the Government has received and considered formal recommendations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Committee is watching the quality of the water, and effluent discharge within the Australian Capital Territory is being continuously monitored with a view to maintaining at as high a level as possible the quality of the water in the Mumimbidgee River. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The first Commonwealth Electoral Act (assented to on 10 October 1902) required a deposit in the sum of £25 to be made by  or  on behalf of  the  person nominated for election to the Senate or House of Representatives. 
By Act No. 48 e£ 1965 (assented to on 3 June 1965) the amount of the deposit was increased to £100 in the case of a Senate election and to £50 in the case of a House of Representatives election. The amount of the deposit has remained unaltered since the 1965 amendment. 
Deposits are required to be lodged by or on behalf of candidates in the undermentioned countries - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) 
commercial 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
10,161. 
(2)- 
Firstly, I thank the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  for giving me notice that he would be bringing the matter into the House on the motion for the adjournment. I will try to run briefly through the history of the granting of this licence. Nhulunbuy, of course, is a town that has been planned and developed by Nabalco on the Gove Peninsula. It is, as the honourable member says, within the Arnhem Land Aboriginal Reserve and is 13 miles from the Yirrkala Mission. There is a planned population of 5,000 people at Nhulunbuy. The Aboriginal population at Yirrkala is about 800. As the honourable member has said, there are canteens on the Gove Peninsula and they have been operated for some time by mining companies and contractors for employees only. Some Aboriginals employed by the company are therefore entitled to use the facilities, but this has not prevented other Aboriginals who are not employees of the company from obtaining liquor. 
The history of the case is that in May 1970 the Licensing Court magistrate refused the first liquor licence application by Walkabout Holdings Ltd. Aboriginal objections were based on the argument that in licensed premises not necessary for public accommodation the quiet and good order of the neighbourhood would be disturbed. The magistrate found in view of the population projections of Nhulunbuy and the lack of appropriate public accommodation at the township that grounds were not established for the first objection. Further, in deciding that there was no ground for the second objection, the magistrate noted that the planned hotel would be 13 miles away from Yirrkala and that disturbance must be shown to be more local than the case presented. But he refused the application because the applicant had no authority under section 140 (e) of the Northern Territory Licensing Ordinance to take liquor on to the reserve. 
The Government then had to consider whether to grant an authority to allow licence applications to be heard in the normal way. In doing so it was felt that consideration should be given to the needs of a potential non-Aboriginal population of 5,000. The Administrator granted the authority therefore to bring liquor into the reserve, into the Nhulunbuy township, which is about 13 miles from the Yirrkala Mission. In a subsequent application for a liquor licence the Northern Territory Administration contributed approximately $1,400 to the legal costs of Aboriginals. This figure represents approximately half the total legal costs and it enabled Aboriginals to employ Queen's Counsel from Adelaide. The Aboriginals objected on the ground that access to liquor would produce adverse results amongst the Aboriginal population, but they claimed that they would support the issue of a club licence instead of a hotel licence. That is a very key point in this matter. They argued that the area is on an Aboriginal reserve and therefore the Aboriginal views should be respected. This was the argument upon which they based their case. However, the Licensing Court granted a hotel licence to Walkabout Holdings Ltd in November 1970. 
Aboriginals lodged an appeal with the Northern Territory Supreme Court against the Licensing Court's decision, but the judge dismissed the appeal on the ground that the Northern Territory law did not provide for an appeal to the Supreme Court from the Licensing Court. After the decision on the appeal the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  agreed that the Government would assist to pay the legal costs incurred. As a result of this the Office of Aboriginal Affairs has approached my Department to determine the amount. It is true to say that no Government attitude was expressed at the Licensing Court hearing. I have checked on that. The decision was taken judicially by the Court and the final decision on appeal was taken by a judge of the Supreme Court. Any criticism, therefore, that relates to the deci sion of the Court to grant a particular type of licence and not the principle of alchohol on the reserve itself must be noted here, because the Aboriginals were prepared to accept a club licence. A permit to bring the liquor on to the reserve would be required for either licence. This cannot be read as an implication that the Government supported the application for a hotel licence. The granting of a licence should be seen against this background. Is it realistic that the Nhulunbuy community should not have access to the same social amenities as other Northern Territory towns of the same size? There is a need for public accommodation for business and other visitors to the Gove project. The Aboriginals' preference for a club licence would not be appropriate as it would undoubtedly limit the availability of the facilities to club members. Residents and visitors to the town would be excluded unless they joined the club. Unless a discriminatory club rule prevented it, Aboriginals would be able to join the club and have access to liquor. Moreover, restricted availability of liquor through the club would lead to black marketing, especially in respect to Aboriginal drinkers not wishing to join the club. With respect to the honourable member's request to lay on the table the transcript of the evidence that was heard before the Court, I will endeavour to obtain this and to lay it on the table for the information of honourable members. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A contract for extensions to Parliament House was let in late 1970 for approximately $2m and work commenced on site in the second week of January 1971. 
The decision to proceed with the extensions was made by the government last year following consideration of urgent representations from the Presiding Officers regarding the critical shortage of parliamentary accommodation which has developed in recent years. 
However, in the light of the economic situation, the Government decided to defer the construction of the front east and front west elements of the extensions. The total extensions have been planned to provide reasonable but minimal accommodation and as such will not provide a longer term solution to parliamentary requirements. 
Several more pressing matters have taken precedence over the two subjects mentioned. The Honourable Member will appreciate that in a situation where a new House would take quite some years to design and construct the Government has been faced with the need in the intervening period to provide some amelioration of urgent accommodation problems. 
The question of the planning and construction of the New and Permanent Parliament House will be considered by the Government in the light of the parliamentary debate of the two matters mentioned by the Honourable Member in part 3 of his question. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In general terms, third-party claims by an owner or other affected persons will fail where negligence on the part of the other party cannot be proved. 
The introduction of legislation to ensure that no person injured in a road accident will be excluded from coverage for damages would require the acceptance of the principle of 'absolute liability'. This question was considered in Victoria in 1959 by the Victorian Royal Commission on Third Party Insurance. The Royal Commissioner invesigated alternative schemes based on this principle but did not recommend its adoption. No State has accepted absolute liability as a basis for compensation of road traffic accident victims. Third Party insurance is the prerogative of State Governments and as the application of the principle would require simultaneous legislation in all of the States and Territories I do not think that it is appropriate for me to express a view. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total amount expended by political parties is not available as all parties have not submitted returns of expenses. The information shown below has been extracted from the only returns submitted by the various political parties which contested the 1970 Senate Elections. 
There has been some misunderstanding about the proposed central sewerage scheme for Darwin. Firstly, I think the House must be aware that this scheme was considered at great length and recommended by the Public Works Committee after hearing evidence for and against the proposal. But since then there has been a considerable amount of criticism from the Darwin City Corporation and other groups and individuals in Darwin. I and my ministerial colleagues arranged for experts to go to Darwin and discuss with various officials in Darwin the principles relating to the proposal. The fears that have been expressed have not been allayed despite the fact that I have given the assurance that in the event that pollution should occur in the harbour I would take the proposal back to the Government for consideration. 
I also wish to make this point clear: It is proposed to discharge the macerated sewage not into Darwin Harbour but at a point 8,000 feet feet out from East Point into a depth of 10 fathoms. But because of the continuing public concern I have arranged for the officers of the Departments of Works, Health and the Interior to confer and to bring to me a report on this and alternative but more costly proposals for treatment works. The honourable member for the Northern Territory has been concerned about this matter and has been in constant touch with me and I now inform him and other honourable members that I have no objection at all to the matter being referred back to the Public Works Committee under section 18 (6.) of the Public Works Committee Act if this is the wish of the House. mcmahon ministry 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Taking account of differences in procedures, practices and conditions of employment in the Australian Capital Territory, the following recommendations have some relevance to the Australian Capital Territory Police Force: 
Encouragement to undertake courses at Universities or Colleges of Advanced Education. (Recommendation 41.) 
Foreign languages allowances. (Recommendation 65.) 
The provision of personal radio and transmitters. (Recommendation 97.) 
The establishment of a task force. (Recommendation 99.) 
Refresher and advanced courses for detectives. (Recommendation 120.) 
The use of public service personnel for laboratory work. (Recommendation 121.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Many of  Colonel Sir Eric  St Johnston's recommendations on the Victoria Police Force are of interest to the Northern Territory Police Force. Those recommendations of relevance are: 
Designation and classification of officers of the Police Force. (Recommendations 2-8.) 
Need for periodical refresher courses for certain officers. (Recommendations 36 and 120.) 
Desirability of police officers attending courses in another State, (Recommendation 39.) 
Conditions of posting of police officers. (Recommendations 46-47.) 
Need for medical examination before promotion in certain cases. (Recommendation 49.) 
Need for educational allowances, trade allowances and foreign language allowances. (Recommendations 63-65.) 
Need for part-time matrons at country police stations. (Recommendation 78.) 
Need for air conditioning in buildings and residences in certain areas. (Recommendation 79.) 
Need for new, modern police communications system. (Recommendation 88.) 
Future need for aircraft for police purposes. (Recommendation 95.) 
Modernisation of books and forms used by police. (Recommendation 96.) 
Radius and transmitters needed for use in metropolitan area. (Recommendation 97.) 
Appointment of policewomen to specialised branches of police Force. (Recommendation 102.) 
Use of public service personnel for laboratory work. (Recommendation 121.) 
Service of civil process, execution of warrants, registration of motor vehicles should not be responsibility of police. (Recommendations 155-157.) 
Legal aid when prosecuting. (Recommendation 179.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There are 79 taxis and 6 hire cars in the Australian Capital Territory and the appropriate third party insurance policy is in existence for each vehicle. 
and (4) No. 
Under the Australian Capital Territory Motor Traffic Ordinance a taxi or hire car licence specifies the vehicle which may be used for the purpose. The Department is not aware that any vehicles not so specified are being used as hire cars. The Ordinance does not require a person to be specifically licensed to operate a rental car. The Department is aware that a number of Australian Capital Territory registered vehicles are operating as rental cars in the Territory. 
Fire-fighting Equipment  (Question No. 3446) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While not directly related to procedures and practices in the Northern Territory, the following recommendations have some relevance to the Northern Territory Police Force: 
Control of traffic during demonstrations. (Recommendation 1.) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While not directly related to procedures and practices in the Australian Capital Territory, the following recommendations have some relevance to the Australian Capital Territory Police Force: 
System of acquainting authorities with intention to march. Police identification. 
Which airlines carried Australian (a) inward and lb) outward mail in each of the years 1968, 1969 and 1970? 
What amount was received by each airline for these services in each of those yea rs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been a complaint about cattle from neighbouring pastoral properties straying onto the Waigat Reserve. 
Natural land features and seasonal flooding make fencing difficult in this area but investigations are being conducted to see what might be done to mitigate the problem. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. 
I am very conscious of the criticism that has been levelled against the Australian Capital Territory and the sewerage system outfall here by various shire councils, particularly by the Goodradigbee Shire Council health inspector. Other authorities have expressed some concern in this matter. I did arrange for medical officers, including the Chief Health Surveyor from New South Wales and other Department of Health inspectors, to come to Canberra on 12th and 13th August last to discuss this very question with officials from the Department of the Interior and the National Capital Development Commission. As a result of the representations that I have received from the honourable member for Hume, I have now issued a formal invitation to the shire presidents and mayors of the various local government bodies on the south west slopes and Riverina areas to visit Canberra on 16th September for discussions with officers of my Department and the NCDC. I can assure the honourable member that my Department is arranging for a continuing series of tests to be taken of the waters of the Murrumbidgee in New South Wales to complement the extensive tests that have been carried out already in the Australian Capital Territory. I assure the House that everything is being done to take into account the concern that is being expressed by people and organisations in the shires adjoining the Murrumbidgee. 
Firstly, I refute the statement made by the honourable member that I did not know about this matter. I had been in contact with the officers of my Department who had been in contact also with the Administrator during the course of yesterday afternoon. To put this matter into its true perspective I think the House needs to know that stamp duty has not been increased in the Northern Territory since the 1880s and the stamp duty presently applying in the Northern Territory is lc a cheque, whereas in New South Wales it is 5c a cheque. In order to bring the Northern Territory more into line with other areas in the Commonwealth and to provide the Territory with an additional $500,000 revenue in a tight budgetary situation, it was resolved that we should increase the stamp duty. It is true to say that the Legislative Council has refused to allow this Bill to come before it for debate on the grounds that the Business Committee did not authorise the printing of it. It is true that the Administrator, with my concurrence - I have been in touch with the Administration this morning - has written a letter asking the  President  of the Council to keep the Council sitting to consider the Bill substantively and to arrange whatever meetings of the Business Committee may be needed to enable this matter to be debated and discussed in the Northern Territory Legislative Council. Beyond this, I wish to comment no further. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Provisional data for 1970 shows that there were 272 live Aboriginal births in the southern division of the Northern Territory (i.e. below tb, 20th parallel) and that during this period 50 children died before they reached 12 months. Corresponding figures for 1969 were 287 live Aboriginal births and 27 deaths under 12 months. 
Although there are periodic swings in the Infant Mortality Rate in the southern division, the level is a matter for real concern and investigations are being made into the reasons for this. 
It is not clear why there has been an increase in the Infant Mortality Rate in 1970 as compared to 1969 and this is being investigated. However, the attitudes of the Aborigines themselves to normal concepts of hygiene, the implications of the life style which most Aborigines choose to follow and the absence of family planning leading to the inadequate spacing of children are significant contributing factors to the Infant Mortality Rate. 
The health of Aborigines is of major concern to Government and special health and hygiene services including infant welfare clinics are provided in Aboriginal communities. 
While communal feeding services provide free planned meals for infants, Aboriginal parents frequently have to be reminded of the desirability of regular and adequate feeding for their children. 
In addition the Department of Health undertakes surveys, provides special assistance as required and evacuates cases of particular concern for intensive care and treatment in base hospitals. 
The Minister for Works has advised me that the answers to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are eight types of fire hose couplings used by the various State authorities in Australia at the present time. 
With the exception of the Australian Capital Territory and Queensland, which have standardised on one type, every other State has more than one type of coupling in use. The attached schedule lists the types of couplings presently in use in each Australian State. 
The type of hose coupling used in any State is a matter for the authority concerned. 
Fire Brigades serving towns on either side of a State boundary carry adaptors to allow use of their equipment in either locality. 
Commonwealth Service Departments and the Department of Civil Aviation have adopted the British instantaneous coupling for their mobile equipment and carry adaptors for local fittings. 
The Commonwealth Fire Board has received support for and agreement with the principles of standardisation but no acceptable arrangements can be made to finance the cost for the conversion. 
A coupling with a 5 millimetre pitch Whitworth form thread was developed by the Commonwealth Fire Board in 1952. The coupling has been adopted for use in the Northern Territory; also it will fit both the 5 turns per inch and 5i turns per inch Whitworth form thread couplings used in various States of Australia. 
In addition an adaptor was developed by the Commonwealth Fire Board in 1965. The adaptor will connect threaded couplings used in the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales, Northern Territory, Queensland, Tasmania and Victoria. The implementation of this adaptor was deferred due to financial reasons. 
At the present time no active effort is being made to promote standardisation of hose couplings throughout Australia. 
The Directorate of Civil Defence appreciates the need for standardisation so that all available equipment could be used in a major disaster and to this end the Directorate co-operated with the Commonwealth Fire Board in producing the adaptor in 1965. However, the finance required to standardise couplings throughout Australia is not available from the resources allocated to Civil Defence. 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Answers to Questions 19 August 1971  Answers to Questions  397  SCHEDULE OF HOSE COUPLINGS USED FOR FIRE-FIGHTING EQUIPMENT IN AUSTRALIA 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Four, (b) Forty-eight. 
The waiting times in individual cases vary from 11 years to 12 days depending on the extent of overcrowding and the tenants' preferences for locations and types of dwellings. Some tenants have received offers of transfers and have declined to accept them. 
The average waiting time is 30 months for 2-bedroom and 40 months for 3-bedroom transfers. There is no indication that it will be reduced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The relevant legislation requires that meat sold for human consumption be wrapped . so that it cannot come into contact with paper or other material which is not clean, or with any writing or printing upon any paper or other material. Recent inquiries made by welfare officers of Aboriginal shoppers have also indicated that there is no substance to this allegation. 
Aborigines: Service in Hotels (Question No. 3255) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department, which includes the Northern Territory Police Branch, has had no reports in recent times of Aborigines being excluded from hotels anywhere in the Northern Territory on the grounds of race. There have been instances on which both Europeans and Aborigines have been refused service in hotels on the grounds of being drunk, quarrelsome or disorderly; it would, however, be an offence under the Northern Territory Licensing Ordinance for a publican to refuse service to any client on the grounds of race. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A total of 648 police were on duty on or near Manuka Oval on 21st July 1971 during the visit of the South African Rugby Union team. 
Of these, 168 were from the Australian Capital Territory Police Force and 480 were from the New South Wales Police Force. 
Australian Capital Territory policemen arrested 8 persons and New South Wales policemen arrested 34. Eight persons were arrested by members of the two Forces conjointly. 
Some time ago the Government appointed a planning team to draw up proposals for a major national park near Arnhem Land and the report of that planning team will be made available and made public very soon. Prospecting in the area does indicate that in the Arnhem Land region there is a major uranium province of world significance and, although there is some uncertainty about the level of deposits at Nabarlek, nevertheless we understand there are sufficient quantities there for a viable undertaking. The Minister for National Development and I have had  a  discussion and the Government is not issuing or renewing any authorities to prospect in the region mentioned by the honourable member for the Northern Territory until the Government has had an opportunity to examine, from a national point of view, the importance of both the national park and the mineral resources that are available in the area. As soon as a decision is made it will be made public. 
In accordance with my undertaking to the House on 7th May 1971, I present for the information of honourable members the transcript of proceedings in the Licensing Court, North Australia District, on the application of the Walkabout Hotel (Gove) Pty Ltd for a publican's licence. 
I move: 
That the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary, Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Central sewerage scheme for Darwin. 
The proposal includes construction of sewers, pumping stations, rising mains, macerator station and deep sea outfall. The estimated cost of the proposed works is $3.2m. 
I table the plan of the proposed works. 
These works are referred because of the lapse of time since sewerage schemes for Darwin, covering the northern and central zones, were referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works in March 1969, and because of the concern of members of the Darwin community that a satisfactory standard of treatment should be achieved having regard to environmental factors. The completion of a central sewerage scheme for Darwin is an urgent and essential requirement to permit further development in this area of Darwin, and I seek the Committee's cooperation in making it an objective to table its report during the present parliamentary session. 
When the Committee sat in Darwin in March 1969 a few witnesses, including a representative of the Port Authority, spoke against the scheme. The Committee considered these representations, along with the body of technical evidence available to it, and concluded that the deep water marine outfall at East Point would be able satisfactorily to dispose of the sewage from the central zone, without nuisance or hazard to the public. The Committee acknowledged however that this view might not be shared by all; and that there would be some people mindful of the shortcomings of the present facilities, who would be apprehensive about the possible pollution of the water and foreshores of Darwin Harbour, and the resulting health risks. 
Public criticism of the scheme has been particularly strong in Darwin in recent weeks. Following further consideration of the technical aspects of the scheme by officers of interested departments I visited Darwin in July. I said that it was intended to appoint a monitoring committee to make regular tests of water and to watch carefully for any fouling of beaches. It was envisaged that this committee would comprise representatives of the Departments of Health, Works and Interior. I said that if it appeared that Darwin Harbour was being contaminated I would seek immediate action by the Government to rectify the situation. 
I also announced that to assist individuals and groups in Darwin to fully understand the nature and operation of the scheme I would arrange for technical experts to meet them in Darwin for a series of discussions. A week later the Assistant Director-General of the Hydraulics Division of the Department of Works and the Director of Health for the Northern Territory discussed the scheme with elected members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council, the Darwin City Corporation, trade unions, the Port Authority, Darwin doctors, the Darwin Chamber of Commerce, the National Council of Women and the Press. 
Despite the assurances given and explanations of the scheme, public criticism continues and I consider it would be helpful for the people concerned to be given a further opportunity of putting forward their views, on oath, and being questioned by members of this Parliament. In saying this I should make it clear that in the Government's view the present proposal represents the best balance between the desired effect and cost. It is my understanding that the alternative favoured by many Darwin people is piping the sewage to the Leanyer treatment plant, some 10 miles away. This would cost around $6m, or nearly double the present proposal. Its financing would of necessity be achieved at the expense of other works in the Territory. It would be for the committee however to evaluate the present proposal in the light of any new evidence put before it, and in accordance with its Act, to consider the suitability of the work for the stated purpose, and the most effective use of the money to be expended. 
This is a matter of Government policy and it has not yet been resolved. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth holds areas of vacant or undeveloped land in Darwin acquired under the Darwin Lands Acquisition Act 1945. The area acquired at that time was approximately 90 square miles. It is estimated that sufficient land remains available for future sub-divisions and other development until about 1980. 
, (3) and (4) The Commonwealth has engaged a consultant, P.G. Pak Poy and Associates, to prepare a structure plan for the longterm development of Darwin. Any decision on the future direction of the city's growth and the land to be acquired, if any, will be taken by the Government in the light of the consultant's recommendations. Freehold land outside the Darwin acquired area is held by a number of owners and Its value has increased in recent years. 
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (Question No. 28C8) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1,116. 
One bedroom flats are currently being allocated to single applicants who registered for accommodation in February 1965 and bed-sitter flats to single applicants who registered in October 1966. 
lt is not possible to forecast accurately when allocations will be made as these depend on the rate of vacation by existing tenants and the availability of new accommodation. 
Construction of 94 new flats will be commenced in Lyons in the 1971-72 programme. 
Each application on the list is checked for eligibility before any offer of accommodation is made. Continuous checks of eligibility before an allocation is due would be an unnecessary administrative cost which would have to be recovered in higher rents. 
A survey of occupancy of some flats was conducted in 1970 to check illegal sub-tenancies and to survey availability of possible vacancies for compulsory transferees of the CSIRO. 
One bedroom flats were not constructed exclusively for single persons and it has always been the practice to allocate one bedroom flats to married couples without children who prefer this form of accommodation. Bed-sitter flats are normally allocated to single persons; they would be allocated to married couples only in emergency circumstances. 
Separate statistics are not maintained. 
and (10). Separate statistics are not maintained. Transfers are made on request when suitable alternative accommodation is available. Married couples who wish to remain in one bedroom flats arc not forced to leave. 
This is a matter of policy and is yet to be considered, 
11th February 1970. 
(a) 27, (b), 52, (c) 90, (d) 110, (e) 122, (0 170. 
A programmed construction of government flats was commenced in the late 1940's to help relieve the housing shortage in Canberra and to provide accommodation for persons who had lived for long periods in hostels. 
By the mid-1 960's the urgent needs were being met and private enterprise was expanding ils participation in Canberra's development. It was considered in view of other pressing demands on government construction funds, especially for houses to provide family accommodation, that available resources should be directed more towards meeting the pressing needs of families. 
For the information of honourable members. I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Goodradigbee Shire Council has expressed concern about alleged pollution of the Murrumbidgee River downstream from the Australian Capital Territory. Arising from its expression of concern, some other local government authorities who draw water supplies from this river have expressed concern about alleged pollution from Canberra as well as from other sources along the length of the stream. Representations have been made on behalf of the Hay, Narraburra and Mitchell Shire Councils. 
A notice purporting to be given under the Public Health Act 1902 of New South Wales by the Shire  Clerk  of the Goodradigbee Shire Council has been received and is receiving consideration. 
The inter-departmental committee which was formed for the purpose of ensuring and maintaining close and effective liasion between the departments and authorities concerned with the quality of waterways in the A.C.T. has recently met and had discussions with the medical officers of the New South Wales Department of Public Health from the Riverina and Southern New South Wales Districts. As a consequence arrangements have been made for a continuing series of coordinated tests at various points in the Murrumbidgee River between the A.C.T. boundary and Burrinjuck, to complement the tests which have already been made and which will continue to be made within the Territory. The results of these tests are expected to assist the identification of the nature and extent of any river pollution. 1 have invited the Presidents and Mayors of a number of Shires and municipalities downstream from the A.C.T. to visit Canberra on 16 September for the purpose of inspecting the Canberra sewerage treatment works and to have discussions with senior officers of the Commonwealth departments and authorities concerned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The peak percentage of effluent in the Mumimbidgee River varies from year to year. In the worst period of the ,1967-68 drought the treated effluent from the Canberra sewerage treatment works accounted for almost  100  per cent of the flow of the Murrumbidgee River downstream from the Molonglo River, whereas the mean annual percentage of treated effluent  is  less than  10  per cent. 
Cb) The effluent discharge from Canberra's sewerage treatment works at Weston Creek has generally complied with the standards of  20  ppm  B.O.D.  and  30  ppm suspended solids. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The active agent in 'Solvex' is Orthodichlorobenzene 
Two to three gallons per day are added during the treatment process at Weston Creek, giving a concentration in the treatment works of approximately 0.5 parts per million. No concentration of 'Solvex' has been found in the Molonglo River. 
'Solvex' is used primarily for odour control. 
'Solvex' hydrolysis in water. No trace of Solvex' has been detected downstream from the treatment plant. 
'Solvex' in the concentration  used is not considered to be harmful to humans, fish or other aquatic life. ' 
'Solvex' has been used at Weston Creek since April 1970 and it is expected that it will continue to be used. 
See answers to questions (4) and (5) above. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated valuation of the site and building of approximately 5.400 sq. ft of floor space is $45,000. 
Yes. The building, originally a warehouse was vacated by the Taxation Branch in July 1970 after being occupied by it for some thirty years. It cannot be converted economically for further long-term use by the Commonwealth. 
The site is centrally located and because  of  its potential for future re-development by the Commonwealth is to be retained. In the meantime, consideration is being given to alternative use of the building. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
&amp; (2) The A.C.T. Police General Orders and Instruction Manual and the A.C.T. Police Practice for Constables are internal working documents which, in accordance with interstate police practice, are issued only to serving members of a police force. However, the Commissioner of Police is prepared to provide any Member of Parliament with full information concerning an order or instruction where that is sought by the Member in relation to an incident arising out of the execution of his duty by a member of the A.C.T. Police Force. 
The A.C.T. Police Law Reference Manual is being revised and a copy of the amended edition will be made available to the Parliamentary Library. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The number of persons eligible to vote is indicated by the number of persons enrolled. The persons enrolled, for the General Elections held on 29 and 30 March 1901 and as at 30 July 1971 are shown below - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following countries provide for a voting age of 18 years. 
Albania; Andorra - all male heads of families; Argentina; Bolivia - married citizens; Brazil; Bulgaria; Burma; Canada; Ceylon; China; Republic of Czechoslovakia; Dominican Republic; Ecuador - all literate citizens; El Salvador; German Democratic Republic (East Germany); Guatemala; Honduras; Hungary; Indonesia; Israel; Jordan - male Transjordanians but not Bedouins; Korea (North); Liechtenstein; Mexico - married citizens; Mongolia; Netherlands; Nicaragua - literate or married persons; Poland; Rumania; United Kingdom; Uruguay; U.S.S.R.; Venezuela; Vietnam (North); Vietnam (South) and Yugoslavia. 
Legislation has been passed in New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia lowering the voting age to 18 years for State elections but the new legislation is not yet operative in New South Wales or South Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2). The cost of providing police protection during the South African Rugby Union team's stay in the Australian Capital Territory was approximately $43,700. Of this amount $1,399 was spent on various works at Manuka Oval including the erection of a barbed wire fence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
, (4) and (5). A block of land in Campbell in the Australian Capital Territory has been allotted for the construction of  a  house to be allocated to the present Minister for the Interior for tenancy under the usual priority conditions. The arrangements now in force ale that  a  tenant must wait until the normal waiting period has elapsed before applying to purchase the house that he rents; if approval is given for the tenant to purchase he may purchase on the basis of 5 per cent deposit the balance being amortised over a period of up to 45 years with interest at the rate of  6i  per cent. When any Government home is sold to a tenant a transfer of the lease is restricted for a period of 5 years by Section 28 (a) of the City Area Leases Ordinance. In the case of a' purchaser who enters into a mortgage with the Commonwealth, the mortgate prohibits the sub-leasing of the premises without the prior written approval of the Commonwealth. 
The land was valued at $12,500 as at 1st January 1970. 
$26,500. 
It is true that at its July hearing the licensing court found that several requirements under the Liquor Licensing Ordinance bad not been met by the applicant. However, the licensing magistrate issued licences to Walkabout Hotel (Gove) Pty Ltd at Nhulunbuy last Monday. The magistrate took this action following a successful amendment of the Liquor Licensing Ordinance moved by an elected member of the Legislative Council,  Mr Withnall.  The effect of this amendment is that the formal granting of a licence does not have to await the quarterly sitting or a special sitting crf the licensing court, which does in fact require 28 days notice. The magistrate can now grant licences under this new ordinance subject to conditions being met by the application to him in chambers. In these circumstances and in view of the fact that a court decision has been taken it would be beyond my competence to reopen the case as has been suggested by the honourable member. 
 Mr Speaker- 
Since my name has been mentioned in this motion and in speeches in support of the motion, I feel that I should be given some latitude, too, to make certain points very clear. Since the question of ministerial houses has been the subject of much criticism both here and in- 
Since the question of ministerial bouses and the allocation of land to Ministers of the Crown is mentioned in the motion and since 1 am the Minister for the Interior and have been the subject of considerable criticism in the Canberra Press in particular and by innuendo by certain honourable members- 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
At such time as the necessary statistical information is available following the taking of a census, the Chief Electoral Officer is required to ascertain the numbers of the people of the Commonwealth and of the several States as at' the date of the census and make and forward to the Minister a certificate setting forth the numbers of the people. He is also required to determine and forward to the Minister a notification setting forth the number of Members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States. A decision about the need for a redistribution based on the population figures derived from the recent census and the timing thereof cannot be made until after the necessary preliminary steps have been taken by the Chief Electoral Officer. 
Consideration will be given to the need for a redistribution at the appropriate time if there are marked variations in the number of electors enrolled for the Division in a State, even though the determination by the Chief Electoral Officer may indicate that no alteration is to be made .in the number of Members in the House of Representatives to be elected for the State. 
The matters to which Distribution Commissioners are required to give due consideration in making a proposed distribution of a State into Divisions are specified in the Commonwealth Electoral Act These include the trend of population changes within the State. Distribution Commissioners are not subject to instructions or directions by the Minister or the Government as to the matters to be taken into account. 
Before dealing with any specific issues relating to the Budget, I wish to outline concisely again the fundamental objectives of the Budget and its effect on the Australian community. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his speech made the point abundantly clear that the over-riding economic purpose of the Budget is to combat inflationary pressures. The cost-push inflation that has been eroding the value of incomes has been falling heavily on those on fixed incomes, the pensioners, and those in the rural sector who cannot pass on their costs. It is true to say that cost-push inflation has been shattering the economies of most Western countries leading to unemployment in many nations, economic agony, balance of payment problems and international currency uncertainties. 
Australia's rate of inflation has not been as great as that of such countries as Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and New Zealand. We rank as the second or third lowest country in the world on the consumer price index charts. 
However, action had to be taken to maintain the stability of the economic structure of our country and at the same time maintain the full employment economy concept. There are of course sections in the community who believe they profit from inflation. They now are among the prophets of doom opposed to any painful side effects of policies designed to restrain inflation. 
As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  so clearly stated, Australia has enjoyed a period of economic growth combined with full employment -unrivalled in our history. Ten years ago our gross national product was SI 7,000m; last year it was S28,000m. Ten years ago our work force was  4i  million; today it is 5i million people. Our population- has nearly doubled since 1949. Our international reserves now stand at over $2.3 billion and we enjoy the reputation of having one of the strongest and most stable currencies in the world. 
This is a broad total picture but within that frame we do have pockets of trouble, areas of need and areas requiring urgent assistance. The Government, though aiming to restrain inflation, has endeavoured to extend assistance to these areas - to the pensioners, to the farmers, and to the sectors that have fallen by the wayside as our dramatic economic growth has taken place. 
I turn to the great economic and social problems of the rural sector. The fundamental reasons for the rural decline need to be defined. They are, as I see them in broad, simple terms and not necessarily in order of importance: Firstly, a series of adverse seasons since 1964 over a wide area of Australia; secondly, marketing difficulties, especially export marketing difficulties with such products as wheat; thirdly, the low export prices on world markets for many rural products, wool in particular, compounded by Britain's likely entry to the European Economic Community; fourthly, the growing use of synthetics, or alternatives to products of rural origin; fifthly, the constantly rising cost of production; sixthly, the international currency crisis; and, seventhly, the whole rural economy has been geared to the era of post war prosperity. Today, with declining incomes, farmers and graziers are saddled with high fixed charges that occurred during the boom times, such as high shire rates, high land prices, high wages and so on. 
The Government's concern for the rural community is reflected in the provisions made to assist the rural industries staggering under the heavy gross load of indebtedness of over $2,000m that has compounded rapidly because of the factors I have mentioned. This year the total assistance to this sector is 32 per cent higher than last years record of $2 15m. This year direct assistance to rural industries reaches a new record of a maximum of $275m. This level of assistance is necessary not only in a sectional sense but also in the national context. Too often in the past few years we have heard the economic pundits and other would-be authorities claim that the importance of the rural sector in the economy is no longer of great consequence. They and the great number of other Australians were carried away in the dizzy mineral boom. They believed that the great growth in the secondary industries also made the rural industries and the farmers less significant in the economic sense. This of course was so much nonsense. The rural industries, in spite of the welcome growth in mining and secondary industries, still earn over 50 per cent of Australia's foreign exchange. 
The turn down in the rural sector will make, indeed is making, its presence felt in the total Australian economy. I believe the recent concern expressed in the report of the Bank of New South Wales survey and the Associated Chamber of Manufactures on the level of economic activity, probably reflects the effects of the rural depression more than the recent budgetary measures. It has taken longer for the effect to make its impact on the total economy than in the past, but undoubtedly it will be a significant contributing factor to any general slowing down of economic growth in this nation. 
To date the full effect of the rural recession on the total economy has been largely counter-balanced by the heavy annual capital inflow. In the Government's efforts to lessen the impact of the rural recession, the highest increase in assistance has been extended to the wool industry - Australia's biggest single industry and Australia's largest single export industry, having earned over $ 17,000m of foreign exchange since 1950. The industry, which is spread across the face of Australia, has over 1,000,000 people directly or indirectly dependent upon it. 
The wool industry has always been the fulcrum to the balance in the rural sector, an industry that for years has stood on its own feet unprotected and unaided. There is every justification for the Government to come to the industry's aid in its hour of crisis. I deplore the statements of those who cry doom and forecast the collapse of this industry. This industry however must be reorganised. Its handling and marketing procedures are undergoing a revolutionary if not a belated change. The establishment of the Australian Wool Commission, the research into objective measurement, the development of new wool selling complexes and the reconstruction programmes are all important and necessary measures. But these measures must be supplemented. One of the greatest outstanding requirements in the rural sector is the provision of a facility that will extend longer terms of repayment of existing loans to farmers. Growers' organisations in the various States would like to see repayment periods of 20 to 30 years. In the face of the current rising costs and diminishing returns, the primary producer is finding it difficult, if not impossible, to pay his interest, let alone repay loans on the terms currently available to him. 
The wealth producing industries - the productive industries - are the key to Australia's economic growth and new wealth. The wool industry is one such enterprise. Banks, insurance funds, trustee companies and other financial institutions have, of course, more than an academic interest in this country's economic growth and new wealth. If they want to maintain and develop their own activities in the fields of finance, it is in their own interests to continue to help sustain this section of the economy. 
The Government has been investigating the establishment of a rural loans insurance corporation, which could underwrite long term rural loans from lending institutions. If a rural loans insurance corporation proves to be inadequate to this need, then some other instrument must be considered. For instance, the functions of the Development Bank could be examined to see whether it could be extended in some way to fulfil the requirement. The additional funds for rural reconstruction and the wool deficiency scheme must be supplemented by adequate long term loan provisions for the farmers who are ineligible for such assistance but nevertheless are carrying heavy debt loads needing extended terms of repayment. There has been quite unrealistic criticism of the principle of the wool deficiency policy. I should like to quote from a letter which 1 received from a constituent. He said in simple terms what he thought about the criticism that ran through the Press at the time. In simple terms he demolishes these arguments. He said: 
The principal arguments against, help for the wool industry contain the idea that Australia can't afford it 
Suppose we take the 6 per cent wage rise which meant no counter-balancing extra production. 
The average recipient was getting at least $70 a week, so 6 per cent meant $4 a week. 
Say $1 went back in taxation, so he got S3 a week. 
At least 2 million people got the 6 per cent - a net $6m per week or $300m for a full year net. 
We afforded this to gain nothing, so why can we not afford to keep our leading export industry alive? 
He went on to say: 
As for the University Professors who say that subsidies are a wicked principle; they should be publicly reminded that their high salaries are the result of Federal and State subsidies to the Universities. 
On this same subject of wool deficiency payments, I want to refer to 2 statements by front bench Labor members of this House - the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  On 24th August last, the Leader of the Opposition described the scheme as a wool price sleight of hand and went on to say - and I quote from Hansard of that date, at page 619: 
Payments to major growers, whose debts in most instances are minima), or non-existent will simply enhance a life style which has remained notably opulent. 
The honourable member for Dawson is reported in Hansard of 20th August last, at page 433, as saying: 
The Opposition will support only a proposition which distributes Government or public moneys to those producers who genuinely need help. 
I want first to join issue with the Leader of the Opposition for perpetuating an image of the grazier as opulent, an image the grazier has not been able to live down since wool was in its hey-day of a £1 a pound. Some authorities have estimated that 30,000 wool growers could be forced off their properties in the next 12 to 18 months. Until members of the Opposition recognise that the collapse of the wool industry would pose one of the greatest social problem*, for this country in this century, whose revival transcends party politics, the sooner the Australian people as a whole will realise they have a common stake in the industry's survival. 
The rural industry is, and always has been, a mystery to the Labor Party. In accordance with its established practice, this Government consulted with the Australian Wool Growers Council and the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation before it introduced the wool support scheme. Who did the Labor leaders consult in this respect? Who did the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Dawson consult in order to devise their obscure policies? When I speak of my concern for the rural industry I do not speak only of the farmer; I speak of all those who, like him, have been working in jobs or businesses and professions servicing the farmer's needs or handling his product - the people in the rural towns in particular. Just like the farmer, many of them have been in their occupations for generations. They know no other. 
As I said before, more than 1 million people are dependent either directly or indirectly on the industry, a percentage in the major metropolitan cities. Perhaps the people in those cities can be absorbed hut the prospects for the people in the inland towns is grim. Most have spent a lifetime establishing a home and a way of life. In many cases the family roots of generations are embedded in their town. How do they survive? If the industry is not revitalised, inland Australia will be dotted with ghost towns. If the rural townships go, the impact on the big coastal cities and on the nation will be staggering. Already our major capital cities are suffering from human congestion, traffic bottlenecks, pollution and environmental problems. Any further accentuation of this problem must be stopped by the drift to these cities. 
Those who wish to leave the land and enter a new way of life must be given a chance to retrain and rehabilitate and obtain jobs in the major rural towns and provincial cities of their own choice. What is the Australian Labor Party's answer to this great social and economic problem? I hope it is not simply standing by watching the left wing leadership take over. The Launceston Conference of the Federal 
Executive of the ALP offered no hope to the rural sector. What happened to the submission of the honourable member for Dawson. The Conference came out with a fragmented policy knocking out subsidies and providing for the acquisition of wool. Acquisition of wool by whom and at what price? If ever a well informed Labor man had a raw deal, it was the honourable member for Dawson. He has had to adopt a most unreal policy; indeed, his position must be untenable. 
Let us look at his proposal for the payment of 40c a lb to needy wool growers. Who is needy? Most wool growers fall into this category. It is ail right to say that there are wealthy wool barons. Where are they? Even Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Ltd is trying to dispose of some of its grazing properties. Even the Faulkiner family of the famous Boonooke merino stud are wanting out. A Labor government would apply a means test, with every wool grower having to submit his returns, his confidential records, to the official of some department of other to show cause that he was needy; going cup in hand as it were, pleading that he was a more needy bloke than his neighbour. What humiliation! How long would the costly processing of each application take? Who would establish the criteria for such a case? 
It is true to say that the great majority of wool growers are in difficulties, sure, but some are in more than others. Some will not recover. There is need for rural reconstruction, rehabilitation and social readjustment. This latter need probably is the great requirement of all. But unless some guaranteed price level is extended to the industry as a whole, how can property reconstruction or debt reconstruction take place without an assured cash flow? Simply to dish out 40c a lb to the so-called needy' would achieve no purpose, other than prop up the sick for a period while others not so 'sick' become 'sicker'. This Government offers support for the industry as a whole. Once again the Labor Party, because of its own executive, offers a confused rural policy. During the wheat crisis, the Labor Party had several wheat policies. Now during the wool crisis it has several ill-defined policies. Without being too ungenerous, I think it fair to say that the Labor Party's rural policy is as full of kid as a pregnant goat. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it is now imperative that we look to additional policies to complement State governments' efforts in the field of decentralisation. Rural employment opportunities will continue to diminish unless the decentralisation of industry really accelerates. I am sure that concessional policies to industries would encourage their establishment in country locations and would largely overcome rural unemployment caused by the run of bad seasons since 1964 and the falling prices obtained for rural products, especially wool. 
Before concluding I want to take the opportunity of saying how seriously we in this country should view the activities of the left wing elements of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The people of this country should never forget that strikes, many of which were politically motivated, resulted in a loss of 2.4 million working days and cost wage earners $30.9m last year. Can Australia continue to afford the costly politically motivated strikes and the consequent disruption to satisfy the ununbridled o'er leaping ambitions of individuals inspired by the philosophy of socialism who are determined to smash our economic structure and way of life? 
I thank the honourable member for a very good question. I think it might be a very good idea if the honourable member and I had a look at the Simpson Desert together on some occasion so as to make a real evaluation of its worth. 
Pursuant to section 24 of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957-1960 I present the fourteenth annual report of the National Capital Development Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 This matter of public importance, which has been raised by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  casts a reflection upon the ability of State governments to handle their sovereign responsibilities. Indeed it casts a reflection on local government generally. Many councils in Sydney are run by the Australian Labor Party. Let us consider one such council area - Blacktown - where the cost of surveying and servicing a block with sewerage, water, underground power and roads is $3,500. This is apart from the cost of the land itself. So it is understandable that the honourable member has some concern for the problem that exists in that region. However, one point on which the honourable member for Reid and I agree is that we have every reason to be proud of Canberra as our national capital city. 
Canberra was established under the Seat of Government Act and it was a LiberalCountry Party government which, in 1957, passed legislation to establish a statutory body to be responsible for the planning and development of the Australian Capital Territory. This statutory body was to be known as the National Capital Development Commission. It became operative in 1958 under the chairmanship of  Sir John  Overall. I join with the honourable member for Reid in paying tribute to  Sir John  Overall, his associate commissioners and, indeed, the officers of the National Capital Development Commission for the splendid planning programme they have put into effect. Every Australian has reason to be proud of the efforts of the National Capital Development ' Commission and of the Government's orderly development in this, our national capital. Canberra is known not only as the national capital but also as an important example of decentralised urbanisation. Canberra is fast becoming recognised on the world scene as a city which is putting into bricks and mortar plans to cater for growth without the real problems that usually attend growth. It has set out to reverse the trends being experienced in other major cities in Australia and in the world by planned urban decentralisation. It already has 2 new towns being settled, catering between them for about 200,000 people, with another new city, Tuggeranong, due to accommodate an additional 174,000 in 1974. 
A study was made of the investment in building and construction works by public and private sectors in New South Wales, Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory over a 5-year period ending in 1968. 
The survey assessed the value of buildings, houses, flats and other constructions and the value of water supplies, sewerage and road works completed. This data was then related to the population increase in each place. It was found that for every one person added to the population of New South Wales, $12,078 was spent on houses, other buildings, water supply, sewerage and roads. In Victoria, the cost was $10,517 and in the Australian Capital Territory where a complete urban plan operates, the cost was $8,506. Canberra is a first-class example of decentralised urbanisation which has produced a good environment and a pleasant place in which to live. If the concept of the honourable member for Reid has any real value surely the initiative for this should come from the States. The suggestion contained in this smacks of the old Socialist dogma. Here is an attempt to ride roughshod over the States. It does not take into account the responsibilities of State planning authorities; it ignores the sovereign rights of the States. State governments would surely view this proposal with deep concern, suspicion and alarm. I think they would look upon it as the idea of a centralised bureaucratic regime - acquiring land and holding it in public ownership to be State owned. I think it was a former member of the Opposition who said on one occasion that we do not want a lot of little capitalists in this country. I shall just leave that thought with the honourable member. . . 
I am surprised that there is not a greater awareness on the Opposition benches and indeed throughout the country as a whole of the need to develop decentralisation policies and also of the need to support States with rural orientated decentralisation policies. There, is a need for joint CommonwealthState co-operation. But the initiative must come from the States because the question of decentralisation to provide incentives for the establishment of industry in country locations is their responsibility. The suggestion is, of course, to build satellite cities under this programme on the fringes of the . urban areas - the major cities. Surely the fundamental objective should be to spread our population across Australia as much as possible rather than to encourage the continued strangling growth of areas, even though they may be on the fringes of our major capital cities. 
Resources should be allocated and measures should be designed to ease the pressure on our main major capital cities. Why encourage greater growth, traffic bottlenecks and environmental problems, the high cost of servicing generally unhappy environments for families and for children? Let us use our sense and our resources to develop the rural towns and the provincial cities because this is a sure way of easing the demand for land and reversing the trend of higher prices of land in the cities. The simple fact is that as cities become bloated as the suburban sprawl spreads, our country towns are getting smaller. I believe that we will ultimately ruin our own way of life. I believe it is absolutely imperative that the question of decentralisation should loom large in the minds of all people in this country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is an agency of the Commonwealth Savings Bank at the Wave Hill Centre which is conducted by the local Baptist Minister. 
and (3) I have been informed that there were complaints from some people to the Registrar of Social Services about difficulties in cashing social service cheques. Because of the limited banking facilities these cheques are cashed at the store run by the Wave Hill Social Club. The complaints appear to concern the fact, that the store has limited trading hours and was not always open when people wished to cash cheques. The service provided by the store in this regard is considered reasonable and adequate in all the circumstances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
March 1968. 
Departments of the Treasury, Housing, Works and the Interior. The Public Service Board and the National Capital Development Commission were also represented. 
The Committee was convened on 7th October 1969. 
The Government has approved the establishment of a Statutory Housing Authority for the Australian Capital Territory. Action is being taken to commence drafting the necessary legislation for submission to Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Over 80 per cent of visitors to Canberra arrive by car and the average stay is li days. For those without their own transport there is available a variety of daily sightseeing tours which cover more points of interest than the city bus service. 
Because so few visitors use the bus service for sightseeing it is considered that the limited funds available for visitor promotion and information are belter used to aid the vast majority of visitors who travel to places of interest in Canberra by other means. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Government approval to the extensions was given in September 1970. 
The provision of extensions to the House was recommended by the Minister for the Interior following representations by the Presiding Officers and investigations by the National Capital Development Commission. 
In the investigations mentioned above, it was assumed that whatever decision may be taken regarding the building of a new Parliament House, there would be no additional space available from a new building for at least 8 years. The design of the extensions was then established on the basis of providing a minimal reasonable solution to the expected requirements of the Parliament over the ensuing 8 years. The matters mentioned as parts (b), (c) and (d) of Question (3) were not included in the investigations of the short term requirements of the existing Parliament House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the first question is yes. The answer to the second question is yes. I have been approached by a group concerned and I am having a further look at the matters raised by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. 
The whimsical note in the question asked of me yesterday gave rise to an appropriate answer from me, but the whim of the honourable member for Capricornia has now taken on a more serious and in fact a very curious turn. This morning, on an Australian Broadcasting Commission programme, the honourable member suggested that anybody who wished to buy an acre of land in the Simpson Desert might send 25c to me and he would get it. So that good Australians will not be misled by the fantasy created in the mind of the honourable member, I wish to make the position very clear to the honourable member for the Northern Territory. The Simpson Desert in the Northern Territory is vacant Crown land. The only means by which a pastoral lease of such land can be obtained from the Commonwealth is by the Commonwealth inviting applications for it. No such applications have been invited and it is not intended that they shall be. 
As far as the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory are concerned, there is no substance in the newspaper reports concerning the alleged negotiations. I think the report which I saw was in a Brisbane newspaper. It indicated that sale negotiations had been made by an agent for land in western Queensland. The Queensland Government, of course, is the appropriate authority. 
I can assure the House that the Simpson Desert in the Northern Territory is not for sale. I hope that message gets across to anyone who might have been misled because I would hate people to be putting a 6c stamp on a letter containing 25c for a piece of land that is not available. This morning we were in touch with the estate agent named in the original newspaper report and said to be negotiating the sale. We were told that the leases concerned are hundreds of miles north of the Simpson Desert in the honourable member's home State. I remind him - I am sure he would know this - that the part of the Simpson Desert which lies in Queensland is a national park and comes within the responsibility of the State Government. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
About 200 acres of land at Seale Gorge near Wattie Creek has. been reserved as an area of significance to Aborigines and this area is protected under the Native and Historical areas and Objects Preservation Ordinance. Only Aborigines including those at Wattie Creek may enter this area without permission. The area is under the control of Aboriginal Rangers. 
No other land has been set aside for the use of the people camping at Wattie Creek but these people have the. same statutory rights as other Aboriginal people to freely enter any land in the Territory under pastoral lease and take game and use natural waters on such lands. 
I recently announced that three bores have been successfully sunk at Wave Hill and that, in the interests of health, this supply will be connected to the Wattie Creek camp to provide an assured supply of water for domestic purposes as soon as funds become available. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
and (4) The Wailbri, who are the main tribal group at Yuendumu, have an Aboriginal personal name and a skin or subsection name. The personal name is sacred and is never used except in ceremonies. The subsection name is different for husband, wife, sons and daughters and does not identify the family in the way a European surname does. The European concept of the use of a personal name and a surname is foreign to the Aboriginal people. It is not unusual, however, for Aborigines themselves to choose European names which they use in conjunction with a subsection name and a mother will usually choose a European name for her child for birth registration purposes; nursing sisters frequently assist the mother in this by providing a panel of names from which she may choose. 
If a senior member of an Aboriginal family or the eldest child chooses a European name as a surname, junior members of the family are encouraged to use that name. 
Where no preference for a particular European name is expressed it is common to adopt the skin name as a surname. 
There have been no complaints to the Administration nor has there been evidence of disturbance amongst the Aborigines and Yuendumu over the use of European names by Aborigines. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no" legislation governing the matter n question. However I understand that a booklet has been issued by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet which sets out the procedures to be followed in the flying of flags. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At present it takes an average processing time of eight weeks from the date of application by a tenant to obtain a valuation and prepare an offer of sale. This is not considered to be an unduly long time having regard to the necessary inspection, administrative and accounting procedures involved and the need for the available staff to continue also to provide other services to the  public. 
Government houses are sold at current market value. 
It is considered proper that public assets in Canberra in the form of Government houses should not be sold at less than current market value. This principle parallels the position with private house sales and  a  tenant-purchaser, after five years, has the right to dispose of his house on the open market. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have accepted the advice of the A.C.T. Advisory Council for legislation for the compulsory wearing of seat belts in the Australian Capital 
Territory. It is hoped that the legislation will be introduced this year. 
Legislation requiring the fitting of seat belts to the front seats of passenger cars and passenger car derivatives manufactured after 1st January 1970 was introduced in the Australian Capital Territory on 31st December 1969. This provision was extended on 2nd September 1971 to require these types of vehicles, manufactured after 1st January 1971, to have seat belts fitted for all seating positions. 
As far as the Northern Territory is concerned Private Member's Bills were recently introduced to the Territory Legislative Council to provide for (i) the compulsory fitting of seat belts to specified vehicles manufactured after 1st January 1972; and (ii) the compulsory wearing of seat belts in all vehicles where seat belts are fitted. 
Official members supported the Bills which were passed by Council on 18th August 1971. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There is no information before me as to the Society's views on factors held to be impeding its current development. 
While no specific date has been set for the termination of occupancies of the remaining buildings at Riverside the tenants other than Commonwealth occupants can be given no assurance of security of tenure for any future period. 
It is not expected that the existing training centre at present occupied by the Department of Immigration will become vacant for some time. 
The Department gives financial assistance towards the operating expenses of the Society, but has no current proposal to provide funds by way of a capital grant or to provide the Society with premises. 
Child-care Centres  (Question No. 4138) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is a waiting list of applicants for Government flats for rental in the Australian Capital Territory and until the demand eases it is not proposed to make the present supply of flats available for sale to tenants. 
When and if it is decided to offer Hats for sale to tenants technical and legal appraisals will be carried out to determine the suitability of particular groups for sale under the Unit Titles Ordinance. 
It is anticipated that there will be a continuing need for a large number of Government rental Bats for persons who require or prefer this type of accommodation for short or long term periods of employment in Canberra. The desirability and feasibility of making Government flats available for purchase by tenants under the Unit Titles Ordinance will be taken into consideration in designing and constructing groups of flats in the future. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
There is a waiting list of applicants for Government single bedroom and bed-sitting room flats for rental and the acceptance of new applications has been temporarily suspended. Until the demand for rental accommodation eases it is not proposed to offer Government flats for sale to tenants under the Unit Titles Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The establishment of a public museum and art gallery complex in Alice Springs which will include Aboriginal arts, crafts and artefacts, forms part of the Northern Territory Museum and Art Gallery Board's forward planning and a location for the building is under consideration. Timing for the commencement of construction is dependent on the availability of funds. 
In addition Aborigines at some centres, e.g. Yuendumu, are establishing their own museums and repositories for public display or safe-keeping of ceremonial items. 
Objects of historical and anthropological importance cannot be removed from the Territory without a permit. Export of such items from Australia requires a customs permit. 
The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies has purchased several large private collections as have State museums. The Welfare Division of the Northern Territory Administration has a substantial collection which is to be made available to the Territory Museum and Art Gallery Board for display, etc. The Board has started to acquire its own collection also and it will no doubt look to private collections as a source for material which may not be otherwise available. 
As part of a continuing programme over many years the Welfare Division of the Northern Territory Administration, the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies and linguists have recorded and catalogued a considerable amount of oral literature and history from Aborigines in the Northern Territory. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is assumed that the question relates to the Commonwealth-owned building located in Rhodes Place, Yarralumla. This building has no formal name. 
The building was erected in 1938 as a residence for a Minister. 
The Treasurer, then the Honourable R. G. Casey, held a tenancy from 26th September 1938 to 31st December 1939; the High Commission for Canada then held a lease of the building from 9th January 1940 until 30th November 1963. 
In this period it was the office of the High Commissioner. Since the High Commission for Canada vacated the premises it has been used for Commonwealth office purposes. 
It currently houses the Ceremonial and Hospitality Branch, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
See answer to (2) above. 
The uses to which this building has been put were considered to be the best uses having regard to the circumstances at the particular time. 
I am aware of the serious health problem confronting Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory, particularly at Alice Springs, and I have had discussions with my colleague, the Minister for Health, in regard to this matter. I am not aware of the details the honourable member has brought to my attention concerning the station he mentioned but I will make it my business to become aware of these matters and will give the honourable member an answer in due course. I thank him for bringing these matters to my attention. 
In reply to the honourable member for Maranoa, it is true to say that I am still receiving a great number of letters from people. Some of those who are writing to me are enclosing money in order to purchase land in the Simpson Desert. However, I want to make it perfectly clear once again that the land in the Northern Territory portion of the Simpson Desert is not for sale, nor is it likely to bs for sale in the future. Officers of my Department were in touch with the Northern Territory Administration Lands and Survey Branch in Darwin last week and were told that no approaches had been made to it by American or other interests for parcels of land in the Northern Territory sector of the Simpson Desert. I repeat that neither the Government nor the Administration has any plans whatsoever to offer pastoral leases in this area. Moreover, the Northern Territory Administration considers that the pastoral lease areas adjacent to the Simpson Desert area are very marginal indeed. 
The question asked by the honourable member for Maranoa, in fact, arises from a question asked by the honourable member for Capricornia who, I have no doubt, was confused by a reported negotiation that was contemplated with an American buyer for leases in Queensland many miles north of the Simpson Desert. The Simpson Desert in Queensland is reserved as a national park and there are, I think, about 2,500 square miles of this area. The portion of the Simpson Desert in South Australia is also a national park and I think it occupies an area of about 1900 square miles. This whole Simpson Desert business has been based on a false premise which gave rise to the hopes of the honourable member for Capricornia. Indeed, I received a letter today,  Mr Speaker,  and if it is in order for me to read it, T should like to do so. 
I shall abbreviate it by reading only a section of it. lt is from a fellow named  Mr Griffin,  who is an estate agent in the area of Townsville.  Mr Griffin  has written to apologise and to explain in detail the true position concerning a large area of land in the vicinity of the Simpson Desert. The letter states: 
The land, with an area of 1,600 square miles, comprises 3 pastoral leases known as  'Yuluma'. Gungur'  and  'Buruli',  situated north of the national park. 
I should like to table it to put the record straight. 
Very well,  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate this letter in Hansard. 
I thank honourable members. The letter is as follows: 
Dear  Mr Minister,  1 write to apologise, and to explain in detail, the true and correct situation concerning a large area of land in the vicinity of the Simpson Desert, Central Australia. 
The land, with an area of 1,600 square miles, comprises three (3) pastoral leases known as Yuluma', ,elI-....., and 'Buruli', situated north of the National Park. These leases were allotted lo Boulia Land Court on Sth August 1964, and the present lessee wishes to sell, because he has not sufficient capital to develop the properties, and he is in arrears with rates and rental. 
We have an American client who is seeking a large area of land, similar- to this, at a reasonable price, which could be developed. Discussions have been taking place for some time, and we are presently awaiting advice from the Lands Department in Brisbane concerning the conditions attached to these leases. 
In the meantime, the ABC Townsville heard of the negotiations and approached me. I confirmed that our client was interested in acquiring a large area of land in the region of the Simpson Desert, and subject to the term of the leases and the conditions, and subject to the approval of the Lands Commission, our client could well be interested in negotiating to purchase. 
The day after the announcement, the 'Australian' newspaper on Saturday, 18th September, without any reference to me, seized the opportunity to make spectacular headlines by saying the Simpson Desert was for sale at 20c per acre. 
I did not take any action then, as I considered the announcement as most ridiculous. I became seriously concerned when after ringing me on Wednesday, 22nd September for a story, and I told the reporter I had nothing to report, then on the 23rd September they blatantly quoted mc as having said that the Simpson Desert was sold. 
I assure the honourable member for Maranoa that the land is not for sale and good Australians, with an admirable desire to maintain Australia's heritage - an objective which this Government supports - were unfortunately misled by the honourable member for Capricornia when he invited people to send me 25c for every acre they wished to purchase. 
Not a great deal,  Mr Speaker. 
With due respect,  Mr Speaker,  I am concluding- 
I am coming to that very good point. 
I should like to make it perfectly clear to the honourable member for Maranoa and to the House that I have arranged, by adding staff to my office, to return all moneys to the unfortunate people who have been inconvenienced by an exercise in political irresponsibility which has caused frustration and a great waste of public funds. I will not be transferring the money, including the $25 that the Leader of the Opposition handed to me on behalf of someone else, to the honourable member for Capricornia, who is forming a company. 
The joint study group that was set up by the Government has met on 2 occasions, the last meeting being held in June when the officials appointed by the Government discussed the matter of constitutional reform for the Northern Territory wilh an equal number of members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. 
The Government has decided that the Ministers' meeting requested by the councilors should be granted if it is sought after the Legislative Council elections are concluded and when the Legislative Council has been reconstituted. I have written to the Administrator of the Northern Territory conveying this decision to him so that he might inform the  President  of the Legislative Council in the immediate future. 
I do not know the correct answer to the first part of the question but I will make it my business to find the answer for the honourable member. With respect to the search that has been going on for the ketch 'One and AH' I would like to inform him of the latest position. On Tuesday, 5th October, at 11.16 a.m. in a position about SO miles north of Middleton Reef an orange object about 2 feet to 3 feet in diameter was sighted by a searching Orion aircraft. The HMAS 'Otway' was immediately requested to proceed to the area, where she arrived at 8 o'clock last night. At 2.20 p.m. yesterday, a few miles from that sighting a hatchboard or box 8 feet by 6 feet and three 8 feet hatchboards and a yellow plastic bottle were sighted by the search aircraft scattered over an area of one mile. 
The United States destroyers 'Edson' and 'Lang', which were en route to Brisbane and New Zealand joined 'Otway' in searching at 2 o'clock this morning. But with the exception of the sighting of one piece of broken timber by 'Otway', no contact with debris has been made. The 2 American destroyers were to break off the search and proceed on voyage at about 10.30 a.m. today. Two Royal Australian Air Force aircraft are searching an area of 2,000 square miles flying legs 3 miles apart, which will give a 90 per cent security clearance of the search area. The weather in the area is good, with light southerly winds and excellent visibility except for occasional passing showers. This debris has been sighted more than 50 miles from the position of probability and it must be emphasised that it cannot at this time be positively identified as coming from 'One and AH', but the search is still proceeding. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Neither the Department of the Interior nor the National Capital Development Commission keep such statistical records. 
 The House will remember the disappearance of the ketch 'One and AH'. A life raft was located 49 miles north north west of Middleton Reef initially by a Royal Australian Air Force Neptune aircraft late this afternoon. A RAAF Orion aircraft was immediately dispatched to maintain contact and is now in visual contact with the raft. The crew has reported the sighting of at least 5 people and possibly there are others under the hood of the raft. The submarine HMAS 'Otway' is on its way and expects to arrive at the scene at 12.45 a.m. I would like to thank the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  for his help and the Royal Australian Air Force for the splendid work they have done in locating the raft. I thank all those who have engaged in the search for these missing people. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The usual priority conditions referred to in answer to Question No. 3805 are that the priority allocatee may not purchase the lease of the land (with the house constructed thereon) until he becomes eligible to do so after the expiration of the normal waiting period applied to all other tenants and if he elects to purchase he will be required to pay the current market value of both the land lease and the house. 
Priority allocations of Government accommodation are accorded to key personnel whose services are required by the Government in Canberra in the national or local interests of maintaining essential and efficient administration. The personnel includes such categories as key administrators, scientific and technical experts, specialised medical officers, servicemen on headquarters postings, fire brigade employees, public servants transferred to Canberra with the central administrations of Commonwealth Departments and school headmasters, deputy headmasters and subject masters. 
Priority conditions have applied since Government housing was first constructed in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The categories of personnel to whom priority accommodation is allocated are continuously under review in the light of the prevailing need for housing essential staff. The honourable members attention is referred to the answer the Prime Minister gave on 13th September 1971 to a similar question by the right honourable  Sir Charles  Adermann. 
The rental of the house at present being constructed at Gellibrand Street, Campbell, irrespective of whom the occupant may be, is estimated at approximately $37 a week but the eventual rent will depend on the final cost, the land servicing charges, the amount of the rates and any alterations in rents generally which may occur in the meantime. 
The block has been valued once only as at 1st January 1970 - the date of the last general valuations of land leases for rating purposes - when the value was $12,500. If the land lease is sold to a tenant at any time it will be at the current market value. 
The destination of the ketch 'One and All' was, of course, the Middleton Reef. We have not yet been able to ascertain the purpose of the voyage but discussions are taking place today between the search and rescue personnel and members of the crew. With respect to the condition of the ketch, I am advised that a recent request to the Queensland Department of Harbours and Marine for registration as a commercial fishing vessel was followed by a preliminary inspection of the vessel by a Marine Board surveyor and the owner of the vessel was advised that it did not meet the necessary standards for issue of a certificate of seaworthiness because of the condition of the hull. Therefore, as I know, the vessel was not registered. Preliminary investigations have indicated that the cost of the search was $200,000, which included the costs of commercial shipping and of the HMAS Otway' and Royal Australian Air Force aircraft. The Commonwealth Government has accepted responsibility in providing a search and rescue organisation under the Safety of Life at Sea international convention of some years ago and the Commonwealth has no statutory entitlement to recover the costs of a search and rescue operation except under laws relating to salvage, where the recoverable limit is the value of the property saved. I cannot give any indication at this stage of whether there will be a marine inquiry. Detailed discussions are taking place at present, as I said previously, but I want to make this point clear: At a meeting of the Commonwealth and State Ministers for Transport on 24th September the Ministers agreed that there are several areas in which cooperation between the Commonwealth and the States could lead to more efficient marine administration. Such an area is the safety of private yachts and pleasure craft It is under current consideration. 
I have seen the Press reports referred to by the honourable member.I also saw a conflicting report in the 'Australian' of Monday, 11th October 1971. 1 think it stated that Australians can invest in this project. I willhowever seek the advice of the Attorney-General along the lines suggested by the honourable member. 
As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question:  1 (a) and (b), 2, 3, 4 and 5. - The table sets out the ships under construction or on order, through the Australian Shipbuilding Board, in Australian yards for Australian owners. 
In addition to the 26 vessels listed a number of smaller vessels are also under construction at various shipyards in Australia. 
Only one vessel, to my knowledge, is at present on order or under construction overseas for an Australian owner. This is a ship of approximately 26,000 DWT which is to be built for the Australian National Line by Bremer Vulkan, Bremen Vegesack, West Germany. It is due to be completed in May 1972. Approval to purchase the vessel was given on 6th June 1969. 
I do not think it is true to say that there were unsuccessful endeavours on the part of the Department of Shipping and Transport to prevent the 'One and All' from sailing. The facts as I understand them are that the ketch was sold in Adelaide in 1970 and it was then thought that the vessel was to be used commercially interstate. A surveyor from the Department of Shipping and Transport inspected the 'One and All' and the vessel was considered to be unseaworthy for commercial operations. The owner was informed accordingly. In April 1970 the then owner wrote to the Department stating categorically that the vessel was not to be used commercially but was to be used as a private vessel. Subsequently a voyage as a private craft was made to New South Wales and the Department has had no contact with the owner of the vessel in New South Wales. In October 1970 the owner asked the senior surveyor of the Maritime Services Board of New South Wales for details of the Board's requirements for vessels carrying passengers for gain. I understand that the owner was given a list of these requirements and told that the vessel had to be slipped. The Department heard nothing further from the owner. With respect to the last part of the question I do not know the answer but I will supply an answer to the honourable member in due course. 
In Perth in September there was a meeting between the Minister for Shipping and Transport and appropriate State Ministers and at this meeting it was resolved to look into areas where there should be greater co-operation between Commonwealth and the States with respect to a variety of matters, including laws surrounding the sailing of private yachts and pleasure craft in Australian waters. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of the Parliament to an agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of Tasmania, embodying arrangements for a Commonwealth contribution of up to $4.25m towards the cost of railway works in Tasmania between Launceston and Bell Bay. This Bill also seeks the necessary authorisation of expenditure for the purposes of the agreement. 
In September 1970, the Premier of Tasmania wrote to the Prime Minister seeking financial assistance towards the construction of a new rail link between the existing State railway system, north of Launceston in the vicinity of Nelson's Creek, and Bell Bay. Subsequently assistance was also sought for upgrading parts of the existing line between Nelson's Creek and Launceston and for certain other associated railway works. The railway will link the deep water port of Bell Bay with the Stale railway system. In particular it will facilitate the transport of timber for the development of the northern Tasmanian woodchip industry to be centred at Long Reach, a few miles south of Bell Bay. To meet woodchip export commitments the rail facilities will need to be provided by July 1972. The Premier stated that the State could not finance the work from its own resources within the time available. The Commonwealth agreed to contribute up to $4.25m towards the cost of the proposed works, of which up to $2. 5m will be by way of a loan repayable over 30 years and carrying interest at the ruling long term bond rate while the remainder, up to $ 1.75m, will be by way of a non-repayable grant. The terms of assistance are similar to the Railway Agreement (Western Australia) Act 1961. 
The works proposed comprise: Firstly, a new narrow gauge railway from a point approximately 8 miles from Launceston on the northern eastern line to the Bell Bay wharf. Overall, the line will be approxi mately 27 miles in length, with a spur line to connect the proposed woodchip works at William Creek; secondly, a new railway bridge across the North Esk River in the vicinity of Launceston; thirdly, marshalling lines adjacent to a proposed freight yard at Dowling Street south of the North Esk River near Launceston; and fourthly, upgrading, where necessary, of the existing line between Launceston and the junction of the proposed Bell Bay line with the north eastern line approximately 8 miles from Launceston. For the information of honourable members a map has been circulated showing the approximate route of the railway and the section of line to be upgraded. 
The agreement follows the usual form for projects of this nature. It includes provisions to allow co-operation between the Commonwealth and the State in respect of the establishment of standards, designs, planning and supervision of the work, the disbursement of funds and the auditing of expenditure on the project. The agreement itself is set out as the Schedule to the Bill. Before the agreement can come into effect and payments of financial assistance begin, the approval of the Commonwealth Parliament is necessary. Complementary legislation is being prepared for approval by the Tasmanian Parliament. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the statistical returns from each of the 6 States. showing the voting within each subdivision in relation to the Senate elections 21st November 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No.  (2), (3) and (4) The Government considers that these matters might best be considered after the report of the present enquiry into Parliamentary salaries and allowances by  Mr Justice  Kerr is received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 61 petrol retailing outlets operating in Canberra at present. Crown leases of a further six sites have been granted specifically for use as motor service station sites, and buildings are under construction upon them. 
and (3) Information about the identity of the supplier of oil and petrol, and the price paid in respect of transfers and sub-letting arrangements subsequent to the initial grant of the Crown Lease, is not readily available. 
Not all of the Crown Leases on which the business of a petrol service station is now operating were granted for this specific purpose. Many of them would have been used initially for some other purpose in keeping with the purpose clause of each lease. 
The following schedule gives some details of the Crown Leases on which the present petrol and oil retailing outlets are operating. It might be noted that there is one service station operating at the Canberra Airport which is the subject of a lease arranged by the Department of Civil Aviation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost of holding a by-election consequent upon the resignation of a member of the House of Representatives would range from $10,000 to $14,000. The actual cost would be governed by the number of persons enrolled for the Division, the area of the Division, the number of polling places and the number of alterations to the roll since the last print thereof. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Representatives of the Department of the Interior, Department of Works, Department of Health and National Capital Development Commission formed into an ad hoc committee on 24th April 1969 for the purpose of ensuring close and effective liaison between the departments and authorities concerned with the quality of waterways in the A.C.T. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the long term the growth of the Canberra workforce and population depends on the growth of the Australian population and the national economy, and because of the uncertainties of the many factors involved, population projections beyond 1980 must be regarded as being of doubtful value. 
Projections have been made relating population growth to the growth of government employment on the basis of broad assumptions that the Canberra population in twenty years time could be of the order of five hundred thousand people, with six hundred thousand by the end of the century. 
The National Capital Development Commission has at various times studied the wide range of water supply possibilities for the A.C.T. The studies are not in a form suitable for publication. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As Acting Minister I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Ministers who met in Perth on 24th September were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1930-1963, I present a statement of moneys received and expended during the year ended 30th June 1971 by the Commonwealth in the administration and development of the Australian Capital Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
About 22,353 acres. 
In 1957 and 1967, values were determined for the purposes of the Rates Ordinance only, to be $113,900 and $471,900 respectively. It would be quite misleading to compare these formal determinations with the amount which may be paid to former owners for compensation as a result of the recent acquisition. 
There is no land still to be acquired. 
The National Capital Development Commission advised in 1967 that it was contemplating development of this area. 
Agreement has been reached with most of the former landholders, negotiations are proceeding with others. In one case the owner indicated that he had plans to subdivide for urban development. 
1970. 
, (8) and (9) These are subject of current negotiations. 
The decision to acquire these lands was taken in 1970 following consideration by the Government of recommendations by the Joint Committee on the A.C.T. in 1968. The Committee's report was tabled in Parliament on 13th March 1968. 
The cost of acquisition will be taken into account. 
 As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport, I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to this question. 
The percentage of the inward and outward movement' of cargo of Australia's liner trade and Australia's total trade (all vessels) for 1969-70, in terms of tons weight or tons measure (unit of 40 cubic feet), for each major trade area served by cellular container vessels is given in the following table: 
As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport, I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) The average time spent in port in Australia per voyage by the two A.N.L. ships during the period September 1969 to June 1971 are: 26,420 Ton Cellular Container ship (9 voyages calling at three Australian ports per voyage) - 337 hours 14,082 Ton Rollon Rolloff ship (21 voyages calling at three Australian ports per voyage) - 105 hours. 
(d) and (e) In the operation of its overseas cellular container and rollon rolloff ships, the Australian National Line is working with a consortium of private shipping companies in the European and Japanese trades respectively. The disclosure of the financial details sought on cost per ton of loading and unloading in Australia, gross revenue earned per voyage, import and export, and net revenue earned per voyage, import and export, would be regarded as a breach of commercial confidence. In those circumstances I am not prepared to supply this information. 
The average tonnage carried by these two ships during the period stated in the answer to part (a) is: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The A.C.T. Police General Orders and Instructions manual. 
and (3) Yes. Further instructions have been issued about: procedures when a defendant is bailed and where surety bail is accepted. procedures relating to the taking of fingerprints and photographs. the taking of recognizances. procedures concerning the examination by legally qualified medical practitioners of persons arrested and charged for an offence of driving or being in charge of a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor. 
There is no General Order No. 16. The number will be used for a future addition to the manual. 
As stated in answer to Question No. 3871 (Hansard, 7th September 1971, page 890) the manual is an internal working document issued only, to serving members of the police force. If the honourable member requires the information in relation to an incident involving a member of the A.C.T. Police Force in the execution of his duty, the Commissioner of Police will provide full information about an order or instruction. 
Convention on the Political Rights of Women  (Question No.  4175) 
This is a very full and lengthy question involving considerable detail of considerable importance to the Parliament and to the people concerned. I will get the particulars in detail and supply them to the honourable member ' at the earliest opportunity. 
An application for a lease has been received by the Department of the Interior from the Bathurst Islanders. Under the laws of the Northern Territory the Land Board has been set up to hear applications for such leases. There is an interest in wood chips on Bathurst Island. I will get the details on this application and supply the honourable member with them later. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  expressed some concern that we had not brought before the House a Bill to amend the Electoral Act. I am sure he would realise that we will need some considerable time to debate and discuss the very important issues which arise each time such a Bill is brought before the House. I would not like to see such a Bill rushed through during this session. I assure the honourable member that we will give due consideration to it in the autumn session. 
I appreciate the points which were raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  concerning the political advancement of the Northern Territory. In accordance with an early agreement by the Government, senior officials of the Department of the Interior, the Department of the Treasury, the Attorney-General's Department, the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and the Public 
Service Board held a series of meetings with an equal number of representatives of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. This led to a submission to the Government, and the Government has resolved to have a further meeting at the ministerial level with the Legislative Council should the elected members desire a meeting after the Council reconvenes. 
If it were the wish of the people of the Territory, the Government would not stand in the way of an extension of further executive responsibility, provided there was an acceptance of matching financial responsibility by the Legislative Council. I want to make the point that responsible government requires the balancing of executive powers with the onus of raising a fair part of the revenue to execute that responsibility. I note that the honourable member for Dawson accepted that in transferring any additional powers - State-like powers - to the Northern Territory at this point of time we would have to exclude such areas of policy as land and mining. Already the Government has moved to establish local government in the Northern Territory. For example, in Darwin the Darwin City Corporation was established in 1957 and has exercised responsibility with considerable distinction. I take this opportunity to pay a tribute to the work of the first Mayor of Darwin, Alderman Richardson, who has just resigned. He is a very sick man. Darwin - and 1 believe the Northern Territory - owes a tremendous debt to this pioneer of local government in the Northern Territory. 
This year Alice Springs accepted the responsibility for municipal government and a former member of this House,  Mr Jock  Nelson, is the first Mayor of Alice Springs. He is already doing an excellent job. We are currently looking at proposals for local government at Tennant Creek and Katherine. There is a whole range of local statutory boards and authorities in the Northern Territory. These include a port authority, a tourist board, a reserves board, a museums board and a host of advisory boards such as land boards, building boards and the like, to give people their rightful role in decision making. 
In regard to the high freight costs to Darwin which were referred to by the honourable member for Dawson, I think we must accept the fact that one of the biggest handicaps in the development of the Northern Territory is distance, communications and the high freight costs. It was regrettable that recent shipping freight increases by the Australian National Line were necessary but the truth of the matter is that the problem has been exacerbated by a long period of industrial unrest on the Darwin waterfront. This has seriously affected the economics of the ANL operations. Darwin port is notorious for the long delays in turnround which have added to the high freight cost problem. In spite of this gloomy picture the Government still intends to spend S23m on a new port in Darwin in the hope that reason will prevail amongst those who are engaged on the waterfront there. The Western Australian State Shipping Service will be ceasing its operations at the end of the year. This service has been running at a great loss - §4.8m last year - and the Government has not seen fit at this stage to be able to subsidise that service as requested by the Western Australian Government. On the other hand it is fair to say (hat the Government has spent a considerable sum in trying to improve the general transport system in the Northern Territory. For instance, it has spent $30m on beef roads and has improved the relative economics of road and rail transport. This programme is still proceeding. 
I should like to thank the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  for the praise (hat he extended to the National Capital Development Commission. I am sure that my Department will take note of his views regarding the various varieties of shrubs and trees that he has recommended should be planted in the nature strips in Canberra. 1 know that the honourable member is a great tree lover and a great authority on the subject. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  commented on a building which the Government has vacated in Perth. This building was vacated by the Taxation Department when it transferred to Commonwealth offices in July 1970. I understand that the building is very old. A report recently received from the Department of Works indicates that probably it would be uneconomic to renovate and modify the building for use as modern offices. It would be equally uneconomic to carry out renovations to make the building useful for short term occupancy. Considerable expenditure would be necessary to comply with building regulations before the building could be leased. I understand that the question of the usefulness of the site in the overall future requirement for Commonwealth office buildings in Perth is still being considered. I have taken a full note of the points that the honourable member raised and of his concern for the general economics of the question. 
The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  raised the question of providing some facilities for police guards at the embassies in Canberra. Proposals are now in hand to provide small shelters with suitable heating at all premises under police guard in the Australian Capital Territory. I am sure that the honourable member will be pleased to hear this. The points he raised were very important for members of the police force in the Australian Capital Territory who do a tremendous job in preserving the peace of Canberra. I was disappointed that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  referred to one of the great pioneers of aviation in the Northern Territory,  Mr Eddie  Connellan, in the way that he did. This man pioneered the air services in the Territory and certainly played a great part in its development. I have checked and I can say that Eddie Connellan is not a member of the Australian Country Party and that Connair Pty Ltd did not supply free travel during the recent election. Although he is a great friend of certain members of the Country Party I think it is quite unfair to say that he has received any preferential treatment. Eddie Connellan undoubtedly has been a great territorian. 
The honourable member for Prospect raised the question of the administration of the health facilities for Aborigines in the Northern Territory. This matter, of course, has been the subject of some concern and it is the subject of discussions between my Department and the Department of Health at present. The Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and I have had discussions about the very serious problem of Aboriginal health in the Territory. 
I would like to say something about the whole question of Aboriginal advancement in the Northern Territory because more questions are being asked today than ever before about what the Government is doing for the Aborigines. This interest is a very welcome sign that the community generally is becoming more aware of our responsibility to assist Aborigines to overcome the disadvantages they suffer in comparison with the general community. The closer interest shown by people in the situation of Aborigines is reflected in the increasing expenditures allocated specifically for the advancement of Aborigines. 
Honourable members will notice that the estimates of my Department for the Northern Territory this year provide for a total expenditure of $16m on Aboriginal welfare which is an increase of 13.7 per cent on the estimates for the previous year. The works programme for this year also includes a number of significant projects which will assist Aborigines. The largest of these is the proposed residential college for Alice Springs which is estimated to cost nearly $3m. Also, provision has been made for increased accommodation on settlements for staff essential to provide the various services for Aboriginal communities. An amount of $.92m has been allocated for the first phase of stage 4 of the education programme for special schools conducted by my Department. Provision also has been made for other projects which provide essential services at various places. I refer here to projects such as those concerned with the supply of water - for which $.73m has been allocated - and those concerned with electricity. 
I believe that I should say something about the dimension of the problem of Aboriginal welfare because it is only when there is a real appreciation in this regard that there will be an awareness of what has to be done in the future and the time scale to which this can reasonably be related. More than 22,000 full-blood Aborigines are living in the Territory. Most of these Aborigines live permanently on government settlements and on mission stations but a significant number of about 4,000 continue to reside on pastoral properties. We have a great problem in formulating positive action to help those Aborigines on pastoral properties to live more productive lives at a reasonable standard. My predecessor in this portfolio, who is now the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  appointed a committee to look at the situation of Aborigines on pastoral properties to see what might be done to improve their social and economic standards. This committee, which is known as the Gibb Committee, includes as members Professor Gibb,  Dr Coombs, Mr Taylor,  who is a well known anthropologist, and  Mr Clancy  Roberts who is an Aboriginal of some considerable standing in the Territory. I am told that I may expect the Committee's report at the end of the year. The report should give the Government a better understanding of the problems faced by these isolated communities. It should point to the ways in which these problems, including those related to employment, may be tackled. 
The pastoral industry, of course, has been the main avenue of employment for these people. There are, however, a large number of unemployable people and pensioners who, with their families, live on pastoral properties at standards which are not satisfactory. The Government always pays allowances to pastoralists for the maintenance of these people, but can this arrangement continue indefinitely? One thing is certain: There is no easy answer to this problem. Whatever action is taken, it will take time to achieve worthwhile benefits. We will need to accept a long term programme to achieve the sort of worthwhile results that we should set out to achieve. 
People often comment that the Government has established settlements for Aborigines in places where there is little opportunity for the sort of economic development necessary to sustain a permanent community. On my first visit to the Northern Territory I was inclined to think that this was so, but I have come to realise that we must acknowledge that sites for settlements were not chosen at random. In many cases a settlement is located at a particular place because there were large numbers of Aborigines residing permanently in the general area. With traditional associations, the settlement site has been dictated by this fact, and of course water has been an essential requirement in many of our settlements in arid areas. The result of this is that some of the population on the settlements and mission stations will have to seek future opportunities outside the settlements or missions. I do not want to suggest any time when this sort of development might take place, but I put it forward as a problem about which we must be thinking. 
For some years at least the main work of social, educational and economic advancement of Aborigines will necessarily have to be done within existing settlements and missions. At this stage there is no real desire from most of the adult people to move to places where there are better opportunities. But we face a problem because we are today educating the young Aboriginal people. Seventy-five per cent of the Aboriginal children of eligible age are attending pre-school. Over 90 per cent of eligible age Aboriginal children are attending primary school. Of course with this kind of stimulus many of. these young people will desire better opportunities than their fathers and mothers sought and they will seek the opportunities in the wider Australian society. 
To conclude, I just want to mention one problem referring to the situation of Aborigines who live on the fringes of towns such as Katherine and Alice Springs. Plans for the future include the development of a community area at Katherine which will provide essential facilities for those people who camp there permanently but who lack the skills to obtain permanent employment and the sophistication to take tenancy of a housing commission home. My officers hope to have discussions at Alice Springs this month with various local organisations including the Alice Springs Council on the development of a similar area there. Many Aborigines visit Alice Springs, and in the absence of any suitable facilities camp at various places. This raises very serious health and social problems which cannot be solved until something positive is done by way of providing essential facilities. 
Given unlimited funds and unlimited physical resources a great deal more could no doubt be done to improve the living standards of Aborigines. But more money is not the sole answer, as I am sure the honourable member for Prospect would agree. We do not want the Aborigines to become permanent mendicants; the Aboriginal people do not want this either. The real solution seems to be the provision pf balanced programmes of assistance which will give a real opportunity to Aborigines to exercise the same responsibilities in personal matters as is accepted by the general community. I would like to thank those who have made their contribution to the debate on the estimates for the Department of the Interior. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of National Development 
Proposed expenditure, S39,680;000. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth's valuers are still preparing detailed valuations of the several properties affected. These values will be the subject of negotiation between the owners and the Commonwealth. I would not be prepared to provide the details sought. 
No offers have been made. 
No. 
No such estimate has been made. Properties will be purchased in due course by negotiation and on the basis of fair market value. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I received a deputation on the matter on 26th October 1971. 
Trading stamps are illegal in all States, except New South Wales. 
I am giving urgent attention to the question of whether or not the use of trading stamps should be prohibited in the A.C.T. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Police for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following shows, as accurately as can be ascertained, those Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities with properties within the boundaries of the City of Port Pirie that, in accordance with Commonwealth policy, (a) make or (b) do not make ex gratia payments to the City Council in lieu of rates: 
Department of the Army (residential premises). 
Department of Health (residential premises). 
Postmaster-General's Department (residential premises). 
Australian Broadcasting Commission (residential premises). 
Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority (residential premises). 
Commonwealth Railways (residential premises). 
Commonwealth Banking Corporation (office and residential premises). 
Department of Customs and Excise. Department of the Interior and the Departments and authorities (other than the Commonwealth Banking Corporation) listed in (a) in respect of non-residential premises. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
The Field Count Statement No. 1- Population: States and Territories recently released by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician shows that the average annual rate of growth of the population of the Australian Capital Territory between 30th June 1966 and. 30th June 1971 was 8.42 per cent. 
During the debate on the Territory Senators Bill on 20th August 1970 as reported in Hansard on pages 281-282 the then Minister for the Interior stated: 'Certainly when one has regard to the rapidly expanding electoral population of the Australian Capital Territory it appears that the time is fast approaching when some additional representation may be justified on the basis of the number of electors involved'. 
No decision has been taken by the Government in this matter. 
See (3). 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
The Chief Electoral Officer has drawn my attention to Press reports about the condition of the Northern Territory electoral rolls. The Chief Electoral Officer has advised me that due to the inability of the electoral office to conduct a full review in the Northern Territory in 1970 or 1971, the electoral rolls are not up-to-date. However, there is no evidence to support the reports that names have been omitted from the rolls due to computer malfunctions or staff errors. 
Yes. 
An alphabetical listing of persons whose names appear in the Northern Territory Electoral Rolls has been prepared. This listing will be compared with the information on the claims for enrolment submitted by the electors and any errors which are detected will be corrected. 
In areas where it is possible to effect a house to house check of the electoral rolls, such a check will be undertaken by Review Officers during 1972. In respect of other areas, Electoral Agents will be appointed wherever possible to furnish information about the movement of persons eligible for enrolment. In addition the Returning Officer is required to use all available avenues to keep his rolls up-to-date. By using these means the electoral office expects the Northern Territoryroll to be as up-to-date as possible for the next  House  of Representatives election. 
Yes. 
Naval Personnel: Issue of Hard-hats (Question No. 4554) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) The Motor Traffic Ordinance 1936- 1971 provides, in Section 189, that it is an offence  to  drive a vehicle to which a trailer is attached upon a public street unless the trailer is securely fastened close to the rear thereof. Legislation merely requiring safety chains to be fitted would be of doubtful value unless the registering authority could determine that chains fitted to trailers and caravans would not fail under load. In the absence of an Australian standard and therefore the means to check, by reference to an approved mark, that chains have been manufactured to a recognised specification no legislation making it compulsory to install and use safety chains on trailers and caravans has been introduced in the Australian Capital Territory. A standard is being prepared by the Standards Association of Australia which will provide a specifica-tion for chains for trailers and caravans in terms of link size, stretching capabilities and breaking strength. When the standard is published, consideration will be given to the introduction of legislation in the Australian Capital Territory. 
A coronial inquiry is to be held into the death of a man involved in a road accident in Campbell on 27th September 1971 and it would be improper for me to comment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962-1966, I present the Eighth Annual Report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General of those statements. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The employers granted exemption from the compulsory insurance provisions ofthe Workmen's Compensation Ordinance of the A.C.T. are- 
To my knowledge the Chief Electoral Officer has not yet obtained from the Commonwealth Statistician the census figures for the purpose of a redistribution. Until they do come to hand it is not possible to say conclusively whether a redistribution is either necessary or possible overall. The last redistribution, of course, was undertaken in 1968 and the Commonwealth did obtain figures from the Commonwealth Statistician when they were gazetted on 14th August 1967. There was a redistribution in 1968 and an election in 1969. There has always been some difficulty, as experience has shown, in rushing through electoral redistribution processes in that sort of time. It does take time to appoint commissioners and it takes time to take evidence from the public, and to draw boundaries. From the information I have obtained from the Chief Electoral Officer, it takes at least 7 to 8 months to undertake a redistribution after the appointment of the commissioners. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The equivalent of Labor Day in the Northern Territory is May Day which is a paid holiday. The Northern Territory has the same number of paid statutory holidays as the rest of Australia. 
The answer tothe honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)It is impracticable to set criteria which would apply to all affected owners, although factors such as length of residence, health considerations and money owing to banks or mortgages would certainly be taken into account. 
Owners who so wish have been invited to discuss their claims with the Chief Property Officer of the Department of the Interior in Perth. Each case will be considered on its merits consistent with the limited availability of cash this financial year and of course subject to agreement on price. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Workmen's Compensation Ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory define a 'workman' and exclude from that definition - 
an outworker 
a person employed in the service of the Commonwealth 
a member of the family of the employer unless the employer discloses personal particulars of the member at the time when the employment commences and whenever the insurance is renewed. 
The A.C.T. Ordinance also excludes a person whose employment is of a casual nature and who is employed otherwise than for the purpose of the employer's trade or business. 
and (3) Only those in category (b) above, by virtue of their employment with the Commonwealth. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a Ministerial Statement relating to Referendum Proposals the Prime Minister on 23rd February 1967 (Hansard, Page 115) said: 
Whatever may be the fate of the referendum we are resolved that there shall be a redistribution of electoral boundaries during the life of this. Parliament.' 
19th September 1968. ' 
25th October 1969. 
-The answer to the honourable . member's question is as follows: 
If the preliminary census figures -for State populations issued on ,25(h October 1971 are confirmed, the only alteration to the number of Commonwealth, electoral Divisions in the States will be that the number in Western Australia will increase from 9 to 10. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a Ministerial Statement relating to Referendum' Proposals the Prime Minister on 23rd February 1967 (Hansard, page 115) said: 
Whatever may be the fate of the referendum we are resolved that there shall be a redistribution of electoral boundaries during the life of this Parliament.' 
The most recent proposals to redistribute electoral boundaries were approved - by the House of Representatives on 25th September 1968, 26th September 1968 and 26th November 1968. ----- by the- Senate on 9th October 1968. 10th 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) On 6th September 1971  a  Licensing Magistrate sitting in Chambers granted a publican's licence for the hotel at Nhulunbuy owned by Walkabout Hotel (Gove) Ptv Ltd. 
This followed sittings of the Licensing Courtin October  and  November  1970 at  which the application for  a  licence  and  objections from the Yirrkala people were heard. At the conclusion of the hearings the Court decided that  a  licence would be granted subject to certain conditions including satisfactory completion of the buildings  and  the provision of additional car parking spaces. 
The proposition that  a  club licence only be issued was raised at the preliminary hearings. 
Proper processes of the law of the Northern Territory have been observed and there is no  legal basis for review of the decision of the ' - Court. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The area referred to on St Mark's Hill, Barton adjoins the future Trade Group 
Offices/ and is the site yard for some of the precasting operations associated wilh the contract for construction of Stage I, Trade Group Offices, Barton. Work lo be undertaken in this yard will include the production of precast, prestressed concrete beams, and a small batching plant for this contract only. 
Types of raw materials lo be used are concrete, aggregates, steel, sand and water. 
The number of people to be employed in the site yard will vary up to a peak «-f approximately 24. 
The name of the contractor is: 
H.D.C. CONSTRUCTION PTY LTD 
Duration of the contract is 116 weeks, commencing in the first week in August. Construction is programmed for completion in November 1973. 
Duration of site yard occupation under the contract will be similar lo (d) above. 
Occupation was given to the Contractor through contractual arrangements by the National Capital Development Commission Act provides for the Minister, by instrument, to place Commonwealth land under the control of the Commission which may authorise entry of persons onto such land. 
The Contract embodies an arrangement with the Contractor who can use the land only for purposes related to the construction of the Trade Group Offices building. 
(a) The Contract provides on completion, for removal of all temporary construction, rubbish and material; and for the reinstatement of the surface to original contours as directed by the Supervising Architect. 
Under the Genera) Conditions of Contract, the Contractor is obliged to conform to all statutory requirements, by-laws, Ordinances and Regulations of the A.C.T., to protect the public and utilities and to leave any site occupied during construction in a clean and tidy state. These conditions apply also to the generation of pollution and nuisance from work. 
If the Contractor defaults on- any of the obligations of the Contract, the Commission can carry out the work not done at the cost of the Contractor from moneys retained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) (b) (i) 
 The answer to. the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Further investigations into the matter have not produced any evidence that the New South Wales Government availed itself of the offer by the Commonwealth. 
The Honourable J. B. Fuller, M.L.C., New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and Development announced on 29th November 1970 that the Development Corporation of New South Wales had recommended in a report which he released on that date, against a resumption of work on the Sandy Hollow-Maryvale railway link unless existing conditions were materially altered by development of mineral resources, particularly coal in the area of influence. 
The proposed railway has not been referred to the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
The Department of Shipping and Transport is not a member of the Commonwealth-State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation. However, an officer of the Department was an observer at two of the meetings of a technical sub-committee of the Commonwealth-State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation. 
I am well aware of the views of the honourable member on this question of decentralisation and of his adherence to the belief that, in order to achieve decentralisation, decentralisation of administration is essential. Over the years, the Government has taken into consideration the need to try to get a balance between representation for rural constituents and representation for metropolitan constituents. The Act has been framed in such a way as to ensure that people living in rural areas can be adequately represented. We have some very large electorates, like the electorate of Kalgoorlie, which covers an enormous area. Of course, the people in such . areas are not able to see their member as frequently as constituetents in the electorate of Grayndler can. So, we do have a very necessary tolerance to try to ensure that adequate provision is made for people living in the rural sector. I can assure the honourable member that we will observe the provisions of the Electoral Act should there be, and when there is, a redistribution. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have read Professor Berndt's report. The text of a statement issued recently on the matter by the Bishop of the Northern Territory, the Right Reverend K. Mason and the Church Missionary, Society Field Superintendent,  Mr P.  Leske, is given at the end of the answer as it puts the Church and Mission views on the effects of drinking on the Oenpelli community. 
There has been continuing and close consultation between the Mission authorities and the Administration about the incidence of drinking by Aborigines from Oenpelli at the store concerned. I also spoke to the Oenpelli community about this matter earlier this year when 1 visited there. There has been increased supervision by police of the area. The mission authorities have also had talks with the licensee and these are referred to in the statement quoted below. 
The report of the Commission appointed by the Administrator of Papua, and New Guinea to inquire into drinking of intoxicating liquors in that Territory will be studied when available to see if the recommendations of that Commission have any application to particular communities in the Northern Territory. 
The Advisory Council on Northern Territory Aboriginal Affairs which includes 12 Aborigines representing communities throughout the Territory will be given every opportunity, to consider the effects of the introduction of liquor in Aboriginal communities and to advise on action which might be taken in this regard. 
Part of the continuing work of Welfare officers is Instruction on the need for moderation in the consumption of alcohol with individual counselling given in problem cases. 
The Board of the Methodist Mission has been informed that the Government is prepared to subsidise the salary of a social worker whose duties would include education programmes on drinking and family counselling in particular cases. Similar assistance tor other mission authorities would be considered if requested. 
Funds  for health and social services  for  Aborigines  in  the Territory  are  provided  under  appropriations in the Budget of the responsible Departments. 
Text of statement by the Bishop  of  the Northern Territory, the Right Reverend K. Mason, and  Mr  P.  Leske 
Recent controversy has focused on the Border Store, situated on the western side of the East Alligator River, which is the Arnhem Land border.  Mr Terry  Robinson began to operate the store towards the end of 1966, to cater for the needs of tourists who come in considerable numbers to the area. As well, the store has attracted numbers of Oenpelli Aboriginals. 
In 1969  Mr Robinson  applied for a liquor licence. This application was opposed by the Oenpelli Aboriginals and Mission authorities - nonetheless the licence was granted in August, 1969. 

 Mr Robinson undertook lo sell beer only and not "hard" spirits, but over the last  2  years the availability of liquor so close to Oenpelli has led to considerable breakdown in the life of the Aboriginals. 
Drunkenness and fighting resulted in frequent damage to life and properly. Family, life for many was disrupted and social and moral problems began lo increase. 
A large proportion of the wages of many workers went on beer at the Border Store, and with more vehicles operating in the area. Aboriginals were also able to go further afield for liquor. 
Professor Ronald Berndt, during a recent visit to Oenpelli, was dismayed at the position and spoke of alcohol leading to genocide.  His  remarks led to a good deal of publicity. Conferences among Mission staff and Aboriginals have been held, and  Mr Robinson  attended discussions on 13th October. 
All present were deeply concerned about the problems and there was a full sharing of difficulties with the desire to find a way forward. 
The Aboriginal people have now expressed the following wishes: 
It is essential for a policeman to be resident in the area. 
No alcohol should be made available to the Oenpelli side of the East Alligator River - i.e. a "wet" canteen is not wanted. 
The fact that the Border Store sells only beer is appreciated. This licence should not be withdrawn, as this would aggravate matters by leading to  a  search for liquor from further away. 
Much better facilities should be provided at the Border Store for leisurely drinking, with no beer to be taken away from the store. 

 Mr Robinson fully recognises the gravity of the position and wants to do all in his power to improve and control matters. 
The Oenpelli Aboriginals have been stirred by recent happenings and are determined to exercise whatever controls are possible among their own people. 
The outcome of recent discussions has been welcomed by Church and Mission authorities in the Diocese, and the desire of all involved to cooperate in improving the situation is cause for thankfulness. 
We appreciate the concern of Church people about these problems, and hope that the above will lead to continuing informed prayer.' 
Australian Capital Territory: Water Rates  (Question No. 4555)  Mr Enderby  asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What principles and tests are applied to determine how water rates are charged in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Does the system require flat dwellers without gardens to pay a minimum sum of $20 for water used up to 100,000 gallons which is the same as that required of householders with gardens. 
What percentage of (a) householders and (b) flat dwellers used (i) less than 20,000 gallons, (ii) less than 40,000 gallons, (iii) less than 60,000 gallons, (iv) less than 80,000 gallons, (v) less than 100,000 gallons and (vi) more than 100,000 gallons in the last year. 
Are householders permitted the free use of 25,000 gallons per annum for the purpose of watering nature strips irrespective of the size of those nature strips. 
Do householders occupying corner blocks of land often have twice the area of nature strips surrounding their house than other householders. 
Will he change the present system of imposing water rates to give greater equity to householders occupying corner blocks and to flat dwellers; if not, why not. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (4) The principle underlying the system of water charging in the Australian Capital Territory is that all consumers should contribute to the cost incurred in providing for the storage of sufficient water to meet all consumers need: and in treating and reticulating it to their properties. The minimum charge (currently $20 per annum) therefore represents a contribution  b)  each consumer towards the capital, maintenance and operating costs of the system. In setting the minimum charge of $20 for 100,000 gallons of water the contribution of consumers to the development of Canberra as a garden city continued to be recognised. Instead of setting 75,000 gallons as the quantity allowable before excess was charged, 25,000 gallons was added to encourage consumers to continue to maintain na'.ure strips. Flat dwellers pay only the minimum charge irrespective of the amount of water consumed. 
Consumption statistics are not available in the form requested by the honourable member. However, consumption by all consumers in 1968, the latest year for which these figures are available, was: 
Based on current charges the 35 per cent of consumers who used less than 75,000 gallons would have contributed 19 per cent of the water revenue. The 50 per cent who used more than 100,000 gallons would have contributed 72 per cent. 
Even ignoring comparisons between corner blocks and others, there are wide variations in 'he sizes of nature strips adjacent to houses. 
The distribution of water charges between consumers is considered to be equitable and no changes are proposed at present. 
Repatriation: Australian Servicemen in Vietnam  (Question No. 4693) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The majority demand is assessed by passenger counts and reports by inspectors and bus drivers. Requests by the public are also taken into account. Loadings are kept under observation and additional services are provided when required. 
The established pattern of peak bour services is varied to meet changes in points of passenger concentration. Before new centres of employment open the likely patronage, based on the estimated number of workers to be engaged, is assessed in order to determine the need for additional peak hour services. 
Arising from the 1967 study of the Canberra bus service the method of operation was modified to meet the needs of the growing city more satisfactorily. The operating of the service was determined having regard to route coverage and directness, road design, bus stop spacing, loading, speed, service frequency and capacity to adhere to timetable. 
The service is designed to achieve the following standards: 
No residents further than one half mile walking distance from a bus stop. Stops at 2/10ths of a mile intervals (except on express services). Thirty minute service during business hours. Peak hour services to meet demand. Ratio of route length to shortest road distance not to exceed 1.2. In the operation of the service the aims also include the achievement of minimum journey times and avoidance of overloading. 
Buses are sold after approximately 10 years or approximately 200,000 miles and the new buses offer high standards of comfort and cleanliness. 
As stated in answer to question No. 4390 (Hansard, 2nd November 1971, page 2888) it is 
and (2) doubtful whether there is any basis on which meaningful comparisons can be made. However, related to demand the service provided in Canberra is considered to be of a satisfactory standard. 
There were privately operated bus services in Canberra until 1926. Tenders were invited for the private operation of the city bus service in 1927 and 1932 but no satisfactory contracts could be arranged. There were no later attempts to engage private operators. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
nth  July 1962. 
$860. ' 
Revaluations were made pursuant to the provisions of the Rates Ordinance in 1967 and 1971. The unimproved value placed on the land was $1,370 and $4,000 respectively. The lessee has lodged an appeal against the valuation of $4,000. This appeal will be heard by the Valuation Review Board set up under the Rates Ordinance. 
and (5) See answer to (2) and (3) above. (6) The effluxion of time and the growth of 
Canberra.  t Social Welfare Claims and Payments  (Question No. 4748)  Mr Enderby  asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In relation to his answer to Question No. 4120 (Hansard, 2nd November 1971, pages 2880-1) regarding social welfare claims received and payments made in Canberra during the last 5 years, was the increase in the number of claims received between 1966-67 and 1970-71 attributable to the increase in population during the period or was it due to other reasons. 
If it was due to other reasons, what were they. 
What was the percentage increase in total payments between the years 1966-67 and 1970-71, and what were the reasons for the large increase. 
Were any of the total amounts paid between the years 1966-67 and 1970-71 used for the alleviation of financial hardship in respect of high rents, overcrowding, inability to find suitable housing, unmarried mothers having to seek private accommodation and inability to maintain hire purchase payments and payments on motor cars which were given as some of the most common reasons by persons applying for distress housing in Canberra as indicated in his answer to Question No. 4408 (Hansard, 2nd November 1971, pages 2889-90). 
If so, what sum was spent for each of these reasons. 
Can he give details of how the sum of $53,226 paid out as Welfare benefits in Canberra in 1970-71 was spent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The number of claims for Social Welfare Benefits received in the Australian Capital Territory in 1970-71 (1,749) as compared with 1966-67 (1,352) had increased by 29.4 per cent. During the same period the mean population of the 
Territory increased by 37.6 per cent. It might be assumed, therefore, that the increase in the number of claims for benefit was attributable to population increase. 
The increase in total Social Welfare Benefit payments between 1966-67 ($16,466) and 1970-71 ($53,226) amounted to 223.3 per cent. As well as accounting for the higher number of benefits paid in each succeeding year, the increases in the annual amounts paid were due to various upward adjustments in the scale of benefits. In 1966 a typical recipient, a deserted wife with dependent children, received cash assistance at the rate of $26.50 per fortnight irrespective of the number of children. From July 1968 the benefit scale was aligned with the rates of pensions and benefits paid by the Department of Social Services. In June 1971 the benefit rate in respect of, for example, a deserted wife with four children and no other income was $70.00 per fortnight. 
and (5) Social Welfare Benefits are intended primarily to help people awaiting statutory aid, such as deserted wives with children, or persons who are unable to qualify for Commonwealth pensions or benefits and for various reasons cannot support themselves and their families. The payments are meant to meet subsistence! needs and are not specifically designed to cover costs such as those incurred through high rents, hire purchase payments, etc. 
The total amount of $53,226 paid in Social Welfare Benefits in the Australian Capital Territory in 1970-71 was distributed as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of houses either constructed by the N.T.A. or by Missions using funds supplied through votes of the Department of the Interior. 
In addition 23 houses were built during 1969-70 and 1970-71 by the Progress Association at Maningrida using timber provided free* of cost by the Government 
A number of houses also were enlarged and improved under the programme to up-grade the standard of existing houses as people acquire better home management skills. (Does not include assistance from the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund to housing societies of $50,000 in 1967-70 and $20,000 in 1970-71.) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Phase III of the transfer programme was outlined in the Public Service Board's Annual Report for 1970. Details of the situation following deferment of Phase III were given in the Board's Annual Report for 1971 (page 64). 
On 2nd November 1971 I informed' the right honourable member that the question of the resumption of the transfer of Commonwealth departments to Canberra was under consideration. 
No decision has yet been made on the resumption of the transfer programme. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question' is as follows: 
See Table below. 
While preliminary population - figures based on the field count have been issued by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician,' the numbers of the people of the Commonwealth and the several States as at the Census taken on 30th June 1971 are not yet available from' Commonwealth Statistician. Until the Chief Electoral Officer has ascertained the numbers of the people in accordance with the Representation Act, he cannot determine the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States. 
The 1965 amendments of the Commonwealth Electoral Act specified additional, steps which must be taken by the Distribution. Commissioners and provides for an additional 30 days period for the lodgment of suggestions and an additional 14 days period for the lodgment of comments relating to the suggestions. 
The appointment of Distribution Commissioners, the carrying out of the Commissioners functions, the preparation of the reports relating to a proposed distribution of a State and the passage of resolutions by Parliament are factors which could prevent a redistribution being effected before May 1972. Following a redistribution, the electoral rolls must be reprinted  in respect of those Subdivisions and Divisions where the boundaries have been altered. 
See Table below. 
Western Australia is the only State in which 18, 19 and 20 year old citizens are entitled lo enrol. The 18 years of age franchise provisions are not yet operative in New South Wales or South Australia. The period taken to enrol 18. 19 and 20 year old citizens for State purposes in Western Australia is unknown. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Although legislation has been passed in New South Wales. South Australia and Western Australia lowering the franchise age to 18 years, such legislation is operative in Western Australia only. The right nf persons under the age of 21 years to vole at Western Australian State elections does nol give such persons he right to vote at Federal elections. Nu decision has yet been taken by the Federal Government concerning the lowering of the franchise age for Federal elections. 
The effect of the enactment of  any  Adulthood Bills  in  the various States will be closely examined  in  relation to the franchise entitlement of 18 year old persons. 
Housing: Loans (Question NO. 4714) 
The answer to (he honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 30th June 1971 the population of Canberra was estimated to be 141,575. ' 
From an examination of available records it has been broadly estimated that tuta! . ' capital expenditure by the Commonwealth . on the development of Canberra since 1901 has been of the order of $700m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The checking of Commonwealth electoral enrolments » conducted under two systems: 
Electoral Agency system where information is supplied by electoral agents - this covers the rural areas. 
Habitation Review system under which Review Officers carry out a house-to-house canvass in metropolitan and other built-up areas. 
The expenditure in Queensland under each system during the financial years 1968-69, 1969-70 and 1970-71 was- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Eighteen year old persons living in South Australia are not yet entitled to vote at State elections. 
This part of the question raises the interpretation of section 41 of the Constitution and I do not propose to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
M. G. Kailis Gulf Fisheries Pty Ltd. 
and (4) Five acres on which is situated a fully integrated prawn processing factory comprising processing plant, packing shed, refrigeration room, store rooms, laboratory and other ancillary buildings, plus accommodation for about ISO staff with mess huts and ablution blocks. Buildings ure of timber and iron or asbestos construction. 
The compensation agreed upon is $335,000 plus $6,521 for reconnection of telephone facilities. 
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing Company  (Question No. 4877)  Mr Barnard  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: Can he say - 
what was the percentage of overseas ownership in the Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing Company at 
January 1963 and 
30 June 1971 and 
what were the names of the overseas companies involved. 
I thank the honourable member very much for what could be a very valuable suggestion, but one that would require quite a lot of research. Tt could be quite a costly exercise both for the Department and for householders. Unless adequate research were undertaken to see whether such  a  policy would in fact reduce the accident rate of course  there  would not be much point in proceeding with it. I think somebody suggested by interjection that there needs to be some provision also to stop drivers looking at skirts. 
Perhaps we could also have those less illuminating. Seriously, I think there is some value in the suggestion of the honourable member for Henty. I will refer the matter to the New South Wales Traffic Accident Research Unit,  a  body recently set up by  Mr Morris,  the New South Wales Minister for Transport, to see whether there would be some value in implementing such  a  suggestion in the Australian national capital. 
I am, of course, well aware that a number of tents have been pitched outside the national Parliament in Parliament Place. The people concerned are Aborigines who are demonstrating in a peaceful way for a case in which they believe. I must say that they have been quiet and they have behaved and cooperated with the police extremely well. There is no litter and there is no health problem. So neither I nor the Government have seen any great cause for concern about the Aborigines themselves. But I think that in the future we will have to look at an ordinance to ensure that Parliament Place is reserved for its purpose - a place for orderly and peaceful demonstration, but not a place upon which people can camp indefinitely thereby perhaps preventing other people from using it from day to day. I can assure the right honourable member that I have been well aware of the situation and I have watched the activities of these people. The Australian Capital Territory police have been in constant contact wilh them. They have observed every request that the police have made of them, and up to date they have not disobeyed any request. But the question of reserving Parliament Place for its proper intention and proper requirement is under consideration. 
Unfortunately there are indications that the 144,000 Australian Aborigines will be used as a political football this year. Since white settlement the Australian Aborigines have suffered one injustice after another, and they have gone from one disability or another, but it would be tragic if for the first time they are to be used for political motives and purposes by Communist elements and left-wing union leaders. The Communist Party of Australia last year in the Tribune' forecast, when it referred to a mass anti-racist movement attacking apartheid and racial discrimination in both South Africa and Australia as being vital in the coming months, that this movement would be built up on militant mass action and would spread to support for the Gurindji and 
Yirrkala people as well as Aborigines living in urban and rural slums. It referred to a second front against reaction following on moral revolution. 
It was forecast in all the various Communist media that land rights would become the big issue in 1972 in view of the fact that Australia was withdrawing its troops from Vietnam. The Communist controlled unionists, the so-called peace movements, Maoists, Trotskyites and left-wingers generally are hellbent on dividing the Australian nation on racist issues, using the 144,000 part Aborigines and full blood Aborigines as a launching pad for their own motives. 
Unfortunately, many well meaning people are caught up in this campaign as they were in some of the other Vietnam moratorium demonstrations and peace front activities. Even the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - it probably does not surprise many people and it certainly does not surprise me - has been induced to become involved, probably seeing some short term political advantage to the ALP in the next Federal elections, but not necessarily concerning itself with the welfare and the long term welfare of the Australian Aboriginal people. So let us not use these people for our own ulterior motives but recognise their problems and do something about them. Let us recognise that we will not solve their problems in one generation. Emotional speeches, high sounding phrases and cliches and a clamour for land rights in itself will not overcome the disabilities of the Australian Aborigines. Extensive welfare policies based on race and not on need can create, and in my opinion and in the opinion of a lot of people are creating, a white backlash in many parts of Australia. This would be a shocking thing if it were allowed to happen. 
Having said that, it is true to say that no government has done more to recognise the Australian Aborigines and to assist in the advancement of the Aboriginal people than this Liberal-Country Party Government. The statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on Australia Day was undoubtedly the most advanced and comprehensive statement on Aboriginal advancement made by a Prime Minister of this country in its history. Essentially the Government's aim is to have a single Australian society, including Australian Aborigines, having equal rights, responsibilities and opportunities. The aim is to ensure that Aborigines will achieve an efficient and respected place in the single Australian society, preserving their own cultures, languages, traditions and arts if they so desire. But the thought of separate development of Australian Aborigines is completely alien to the Government's intentions. It does not want a racist society; it does not want apartheid, whether it is voluntary or enforced. It is against this background that we should look at what the Government is doing in the Northern Territory, the Territory over which I have responsibility and in which there are 22.000 full blood Aborigines many of whom have been in contact with European civilisation for the past few years only. Any sensible debate or discussion of Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory must start with the basic facts. 
In the Northern Territory we have 94,000 square miles, an area larger than Victoria, which has been reserved for 22,000 Aboriginal people. There have been 135 applications received for leases from Aborigines, some for very large areas. Of these, 65 leases have been approved, 60 of them to Aboriginal communities. These 65 leases range from 2,100 square miles at Roper River - a lease for pastoral purposes - to 800 acres for ceremonial and religious purposes at Wallaby Swamp on Groote Eylandt and 33 acres for a tourist enterprise at Standley Chasm. There are 70 other applications for leases which are waiting to be heard by the Northern Territory Land Board. The point to remember is that Aboriginal people themselves are making the applications. They are happy with the form of tenure and with the form of lease, and legislation is to be introduced into the Northern Territory Legislative Council to provide for a general purpose lease which is tailor made for the Aboriginal economic and social needs on reserves. The Prime Minister has announced, as my colleague, the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  has said, that an additional $13m is to be provided for the purchase of properties and land coming on the market from outside the reserves. There are grants and loans available from public moneys and also the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund to establish Aborigines on the land. 
The honourable member for Hughes mentioned the Gurindjis. I have agreed to an assured water supply to the Gurindjis at Wattie Creek. I have received a report from the Gibb Committee which makes certain recommendations that the Government is now considering. In due course honourable members will be hearing what the Government intends to do to try to help these people. The Government in no way has hindered the Gurindji people at Wattie Creek. It has ensured that their children can get to school and that the people have adequate health services. 
They have land and nobody has moved them from their land. The Leader of the Opposition gave a wrong impression with respect to sites of special and historical significance to Aborigines in the Northern Territory. These are not made available to them by way of lease; these are made available by way of ordinance. There is no lease. They are set aside for all time for Aborigines. A number of these places have been set aside. Seal Gorge not far from Wattie Creek is a case in point. Of course, the Government recognises the deep attachment that Aboriginal people have to land but it cannot reverse the whole course of Australian history without interfering with the rights of other Australians. European Australians who have sweated to carve out a nation from a desolate continent have a legitimate stake in this country and security of title to land is paramount in an orderly society. The claim for $6 billion compensation for dispossession of land in the past which has been made by some groups of Aborigines inspired by radical groups flows quite naturally from the argument that Aborigines anywhere in Australia have a&gt; moral, if not a legal, right to land based on ancestral association with that land. Recently an Aboriginal group in Darwin, the Larrakeahs, laid claim to the city of Darwin by raising a flag outside the Supreme Court because they believed this was their land by tradition. Do those who criticise the Government's policies support this claim? Do they believe that compensation should be paid at this stage to this group? If the answer to either of these questions is yes, where does it end? 
The Leader of the Opposition, according to a Press report, claimed that a Labor government would grant freehold title? to Aborigines where there bad been an historical association. There are great areas of most States and considerable parts of the main cities which could be the subject of claims by people of aboriginal blood, however small, based on traditional association. What do people mean when they press for land rights? I think there is a tremendous amount of confusion over the whole issue, particularly as it applies to the Northern Territory, because the Aborigines are in fact getting entitlement to land for themselves and are applying for it under the terms and conditions and are happy to operate under them. Outside this Parliament, according to Press reports, a spokesman for Aborigines said that they wanted full State rights of the Northern Territory under Aboriginal ownership and all titles for mineral ownership together with all other reserves and settlements in Australia with their titles to mining and mineral rights. They want mineral and mining rights in certain towns and cities, preservation of all sacred Aboriginal sites - this, of course, is being done - and compensation with an initial payment of $6 billion for all other land throughout Australia and a percentage of the gross national product each year. Indeed, the principal claim for land rights seems to be for compensation for land which it is claimed was taken away from the Aborigines over the past 200 years. 
Numbers of people have remarked to me that the protagonists of land claims for Aborigines are frequently neither Aboriginal nor part-Aboriginal. As I have said, some of those who have an interest in attacking our present order of society have declared that with the passing of the Vietnam crisis the next big crusade will come in relation to Aborigines. To these people there is a philosophical and ideological connection between these 2 questions. To most Australians, however, there is no such  connection and they are  left to wonder about the motivations. It has been pointed out to me that some of those who talk most about racism seem bent on creating racial conflict where none existed. It has also been remarked that each succeeding campaign for one purpose or another once it reaches a point of success launches off in another direction. We are told that each objective set is designed to solve the problems of the Aborigines. One of the sad things about all of the campaigns that have been launched on their behalf is that an aura of expectation is built up and then there is disappointment. 
We have to base our policies on the facts as they exist today. If the land in the reserve in the Northern Territory were to be carved up on a traditional basis what would have to be done about providing a future for those who have to live outside reserves, and I mean by that the present children? If traditional rights are to be accepted for the Yirrkala at Gove by what logic can they be denied to the Larrakeah people in Darwin? The boundaries of the reserves of the Northern Territory represent the facts of history and not areas which were set aside to provide an economic future for each clan or community. The Arnhem Land reserve of over 34,000 square miles was never intended to meet the requirements of only the people resident in Arnhem Land. Equally the Warrabri reserve of 170 square miles cannot provide for the economic future of those who live there. But the total area of the reserves does provide sufficient land to meet the needs of a great percentage of the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory, provided title to large areas is not held by relatively few communities which cannot possibly use that land. The standard form of tenure in the Northern Territory is leasehold. I do not think anybody really wants to see one land law for Australian Aborigines and another land law for other Australians. 1 think that that would tend to divide the Australian community. I think it would bring about the white backlash that I spoke of earlier. 
There are so many other things that have been done in the Northern Territory. An example of this is the achievements which have been made in the field of education. Seventy-five  percent  of the children of an eligible age are now attending preschools and 92 per cent of them are attending primary schools. The Government's aim is a 100 per cent attendance. (Extension of time granted) I thank the House for its indulgence and I thank the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  for giving me the opportunity to state some facts about what is happening in the Northern Territory. Over 5,000 children - 92 per cent of those who are eligible - are attending primary schools. Five years ago the figure was 81 per cent. The Government's aim, as I said a moment ago, is to achieve a 100 per cent attendance, but this will be difficult. The missing children are mainly from nomadic families or are living in very remote and small places. It is a fair effort to have 75 per cent of the eligible children attending pre-schools. That is much higher than the pre-school enrolments anywhere else in Australia. It should be remembered that children over 3 years of age attend preschools in the Northern Territory. 1 want to see more research conducted on the hard problems of education. There are special curriculums in schools on settlements, missions and pastoral properties. The teachers receive special training. The review of curriculums and new teaching techniques, such as language laboratories, are being employed. The Northern Territory Administration is concentrating its efforts on developing an education system more closely related to the special needs of Aborigines because of their different background and, where possible, Aborigines are being used as assistants in the teaching profession. 
But what about the special social problems which higher education brings? The young people are changing in their attitudes, which frequently creates problems between parents and their children. I suppose one could call it a generation gap. We cannot afford to have this sort of division. This might be said to reflect what is happening in the wider community. The important difference, however, is the deep attachments and links to a culture which sustains the Aborigine in every facet of his life today. Residential colleges for students progressing to community high schools are operating in Darwin and Gove. A new college is being built in Alice Springs at a cost of S2.7m and the Government plans to rebuild the Darwin college with the most modern facilities available. It is expected that in 1975 over 1,100 children will be attending community or special secondary schools. 
This brings us to the employment problem. Graduates from schools must be offered employment suitable to their skills. Plans have been drawn up to reorganise the staffing on settlements. A great deal more by way of administrative responsibility and employment on work projects on settlements will be taken over by the local people. A new vocational training complex is to be opened soon at Rum Jungle. The buildings and equipment for this training complex were purchased from the Atomic Energy Commission. The trainees will live at the town of Bachelor. Young people leaving school will have the opportunity to acquire higher skills in technical trades - building, machine shops, pottery and other manual arts. The older people from settlements and missions will have the opportunity to attend the college also so that they can make a more useful contribution to their own communities. 
Incorporated organisations now exist oh every settlement. These local communities carry on many activities, such as the conduct of stores and market garden enterprises and social ventures which promote community development. These activities are being conducted very successfully. I think that is one of the achievements the Government has made in the Northern Territory. The incorporation of communities is not a new concept, as some would imply. I stress that most leases granted to date have been to such communities. Fishing projects are under way at Maningrida and Umbakumba on Groote Eylandt and there is a tourist centre at Standley Chasm, which is just outside Alice Springs. Some are running bus services. There are plans for Aborigines to own service stations and motels. The Northern Territory Reserves Board is discussing the possibility of the Docker River people running a store and service station at Ayers Rock and of involving them very deeply in any programme to develop the tourist facilities of Central Australia - Ayers Rock, the Mount Olgas and elsewhere. 1 do believe that these are exciting developments. In nearly every case the groups concerned will be receiving grants or loans from the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund. Nearly SI. 3m has been approved for disbursement from the Fund, which has an expected income of Sl.lm per year by 1973 from royalties derived from the 2 major mining enterprises at Groote Eylandt and Gove. This income will increase substantially as a result of the uranium mining at Nabarlek in the near future for the benefit of 22,000 Aborigines. 
Recently I visited Docker River with my colleague, the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson).  Docker River is way down in the far south western corner of the Northern Territory. This settlement was established in 1968 with a population of only sixty. There are now more than 400 people in that general area. It is the most remote settlement in the Northern Territory. A store has been built there and there are plans to open a caravan park. A rich lode of amethyst is being mined high on an adjacent hill and prospecting rights are held over other areas of the reserve. I admit that, some of these people do live in wurlies and not in houses, but the Government supplies a school, a nursing service and basic facilities. The settlement has a water supply problem. It is hoped that that has been overcome by the sinking of a new bore. By our standards the living conditions might be described as deplorable, but the people appear to be happy and immensely vital. They do not see their own needs in terms of self-contained houses. They live in a beautiful part of the Territory surrounded by magnificent scenery and they have their own views as to the types of houses in which they wish to live. It is essential that we invite them to design their own houses. I believe it is essential that we should avoid situations dividing the Australian community. We should treat this whole question with a great deal of sensitivity. The Aborigines are a wonderful people. We owe them a tremendous amount. We should treat them as Australians and try to ensure that they become living elements within the single Australian community. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1-4) The Department from time to time offers sites for lease in Canberra for industrial purposes. Since 1967, 76 sites in Fyshwick have been offered and none were passed in. 
The sites are offered at public auction and the rights to the grant of leases are knocked down to the highest bidder. The lessee is required to comply with the covenants of lease which govern the purpose for which the land may be used and tbe standard of building to be erected. The Department does not keep information about the number of lessees who occupy the land they hold. 
The question suggested that when leases are purchased by 'speculators', the land is not put to good and proper use. This does not necessarily follow. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) At present 196 builders in the A.C.T. hold full annual licences, 
Special licences issued to 31st December 1971 totalled 2,743. These are generally issued for specific building projects and expire upon completion of the work; a person may therefore hold a number of special licences. 
Four officers of tbe Department handle applications. 
Yes, the number of officers is quite adequate. 
All applicants are interviewed as soon as possible upon receipt of their applications and are generally advised immediately if they are successful or not, or whether further information is required. Successful applicants may start work as soon as the fee is paid. 
Over the last 5 years: 
Builders' licences cancelled 10; withdrawn nil. 
Builders' special licences cancelled 7; withdrawn nil. 
Reasons for cancellation were: 
Builders' licences - . 
Unsatisfactory building work - 3 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Untreated water derived from the Murrumbidgee River at any stage during its transit through the A.CT. is not recommended for domestic use (i.e. drinking). Questions on standards outside the Commonwealth Territory should be addressed to the New South Wales authorities. 
No. 
No. Under normal conditions the Murrumbidgee River flow is 9.5 times that of the Molonglo River. 
The storage of water generally improves its quality. The Dam is not being used for the treatment of A.C.T. sewage. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Bathurst and Melville Islands, as a region, are considered to have the potential to support a woodchip industry and some inquiries have already been received from non-Japanese companies interested in investigating such an industry. Discussions have taken place with the Aboriginal communities on both Islands concerning these inquiries and they have expressed a willingness for feasibility studies to be carried out. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
No records are maintained of the ethnic origins of landowners in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory except for Aboriginal Reserves in the Northern Territory. 
In the Northern Territory since legislation providing for the grant of leases of land within reserves to Aborigines or Aboriginal groups came into operation in December 1970, 65 leases have been approved. The total area of these leases is approximately 1,500,900 acres. Another 70 applications including 23 for' pastoral leases over extensive areas are being considered. 
There are no Aboriginal Reserves in the Australian Capital Territory and information can only be supplied in respect of land within Aboriginal Reserves in the Northern Territory. The total area of these reserves is approximately 94,000 square miles and the number and area of leases approved to date is: 
Includes retail, recreational, ceremonial, tourist and business (e.g. bakery, butchery, outdoor picture theatre, service station, etc.) 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  gave his side of an argument against an increase in school bus fares. He condemned the law making processes in the Australian Capital Territory and condemned generally the transport system that operates in the Australian Capital Territory, so it was a fairly wide-sweeping attack upon the processes of administration in the Australian Capital Territory. While there may be some value and virtue in the argument that there should be free school buses and a free transport system in the Australian Capital Territory and while 145,000 people in the Australian Capital Territory would welcome such a proposition I doubt very much whether the taxpayers of Australia would share that sort of view, because I do not know of any other place in Australia where a free public transport system operates, desirable as this might be. Of course it is just not on. 
The increase in bus fares for school children travelling to and from school on special buses and on regular buses in the Australian Capital Territory was approved by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in September 1971. This led to an amendment to regulation 6 of the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Fares Regulations. The fares were increased from 2c to 5c a trip and consequential amendments were made to the Education Ordinance 1937-1966 to give effect to this decision. Both sets of amendments came into operation on 1st November last year. This rise was due to a 150 per cent increase in operating costs to the Department since 1964 when the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Fares Regulations ordinance came into force. With the increases in wages and in costs generally, it is not unreasonable to expect that there would be an increase in fares. In this period there has been a substantial increase in wages and salaries generally and, of course, the services to the community ultimately must be paid for by somebody. As wages increase, so does the cost of providing services to a city such as Canberra. With the exception of private buses, which are hired on a contractual basis to transport children living in rural areas to and from school, all the buses used by school children in the Australian Capital Territory are operated by the Department of the Interior. 
The decision to increase school bus fares was taken after careful consideration by the Department of Education and Science of the cost to that Department for the provision of special school buses, and of subsidising reduced fares for school children who travel to and from school on regular buses. The bus fare charge of 2c for school children, as I mentioned earlier, was not varied from November 1964 until November 1971. In that time the cost to the Department of Education and Science of subsidising the cost of bus transport for school children rose approximately 150 per cent. For example, the cost in the financial year 1968-69 was $163,497; in the following year it was $260,000 and, in the financial year 1970-71, it was $428,972. It is estimated that the cost of the subsidy for the financial year 1971-72 on a 2c fare charge for the whole year will be $482,000 and, on a 5c fare charge for the whole year it will be $426,000. The major element of the cost is the provision of special buses to take children to and from school. The buses pick up at regular intervals and set down outside each school. Other elements of the cost include the provision of special buses to transport school children to and from school sporting fixtures and special events; a subsidy of school children's fares to and from school on regular government passenger buses; a subsidy of the fares for the bus transport to and from school of children living in rural areas of the Australian Capital Territory who are not served by private contract buses; and payment of the cost of fare concessions granted to secondary school children during their school vacations. 
Children attending non-government schools come from a wider area of the Australian Capital Territory and are mors dependent on special buses for transport to and from school. The special school bus service provided for Australian Capital Territory school children is different from the school bus services provided in other parts of Australia. In Sydney and Melbourne, for example, the majority of school children who are dependent on bus transport travel to and from their school on ordinary passenger buses, which operate along the normal routes and which are adequate for this purpose. 
The proposals to amend the Commonwealth Motor Omnibus Fares Regulations and the Education Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory were discussed at a meeting of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council on 20th September 1971. The members of this Council did not express any objection to the proposed fares increases. In fact, they could see the reason why the increases were necessary. But the Council did suggest that the Department of Education and Science should consider the granting of school bus fare concessions to families suffering hardship. This recommendation was accepted and a provision was included in the regulations authorising the Minister to refund to the parent or guardian of a school child the whole or part of the fares in respect of the child's bus travel between his home and school where payment of the fares has caused hardship. 
I know that there are some problems in trying to administer this type of regulation. I know there are difficulties within the social welfare section of my Department. But we saw this as a genuine way of trying to relieve any hardship that may have been caused to parents in the Australian Capital Territory by this essential increase in fares from 2c to 5c per child. Admittedly there have been only a very few applications for a refund, but all the applications that have been made have in fact been approved. 
I might add that provisions already exist under which persons requiring assistance can be helped and in these cases it would not be necessary to rely on the provisions of the Ordinance. This Ordinance has been widely canvassed in the community. As I said earlier, there was a reference to the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council. There was a debate on the issue and the Government did accept the provision to ensure that those parents who were suffering economic disabilities or hardship were in fact given a concessional rate 
I would like to inform the member for the Australian Capital Territory and the House that the Department of tie Interior has been undertaking a review of the general structure of the administration of the social welfare section of the Department. I would hope that in the very near future an announcement will be made along these lines to try to improve the general services to the Canberra community. But this has been an absolutely essential Ordinance. It was essential to increase the fares and we have tried genuinely to assist those people who through hardship have not been able, and will not be able, to meet the increase. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (.1) and (2)- 
The answer to the first part of the question is yes. A survey of the entire Queanbeyan and Molonglo Rivers catchment areas has been carried out by the Soil Conservation Service of New South Wales. The survey revealed an extensive area of gully erosion and erosion in the stream banks of Jerrabomberra and Burra Creeks. It also indicated erosion in the Queanbeyan and Molonglo River areas. These were the areas that were tackled in the first survey. Currently, a survey is being conducted in the Burra Creek valley region. The Captains Hat area is an old mine area. The old zinc slag heaps have been bare because of the poisonous nature of the minerals in the soil. There is no vegetation in the region. We have attempted to overcome that problem by covering the areas with gravel. There is a soil conservation advisory service in the Australian Capital Territory. It works within the Department of the Interior. The siltation level in Lake 
Burley Griffin is being reduced through the application of recognised soil conservation practices in the whole of the catchment area. The New South Wales section has been treated according to the agreement which we entered into with the New South Wales Government in 1965 to try to overcome this problem. This is a 10-year agreement and the Commonwealth is contributing one-third of the cost of the work up to $20,000 a year, the balance of the cost being shared between the soil conservation services and the land owners in the area. It is an area that has been of some concern to us. We are giving it our utmost attention. Much concern has been shown by certain academics about the level of pollution in Lake Burley Griffin. We are conducting many surveys. We are seeking expert advice to ensure that the level of pollution does not increase unduly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$7,411,554 
1,675,537 square feet 
and (4) 
We have heard a lot of talk about the Australian Country Party and its gimmickry from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  but what never ceases to amaze me is that the Australian Labor Party completely disregards the functions and powers of State governments in this country. It has never allowed itself to accept that we have a federal system of government. The Labor Party's motion states in part: 
The Government's failure to act to create regional development areas - 
It is the responsibility of State governments to determine regional areas. The New South Wales Government has just moved towards legislation for the creation of 11 regional areas in New South Wales. Legislation to that effect is now being drafted. Let us be quite clear on just where the Australian Labor Party stands on the question of getting a centralised bureaucracy, a centralisation of power in order, to achieve what it believes will be the. ultimate in decentralisation. I have no real objection to the concept of regional development. I believe that the concept in itself is sound, but it must be done with a Commonwealth, State and local government approach and it must be administered by the State governments in concert with local government bodies, and with the Commonwealth's assistance with funds and in ways that the States might see fit to allow the Commonwealth to involve itself. 
We have been encouraged to set up the Commonwealth/State Officials Committee on Decentralisation. It was set up in 1964 following a Premiers Conference and has been researching the complex question of decentralisation. The Committee commissioned a range of studies relating to decentralisation, and I seek the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a list of those studies. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
We have heard what the Labor Party would do about decentralisation but I invite honourable members to consider the situation that exists in New South Wales today. The money spent or committed in this field since the present New South Wales Government came to power in May 1965 is S34.65m. In the period from 195S-65 under a New South Wales Labor Government, which 1 might add was in office for 24 years, a total of S3. 6m was spent on decentralisation. 
The answer to that question is no. 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician's advice to the Chief Electoral Officer on 7th December 1971 read, in part: 
These figures were published on 25th October 1971 and may be subject to some revision when the final population totals become available about June 1972. Sufficient schedules have now been subjected to the preliminary check to indicate that any amendments to the total supplied therein are considered most unlikely to have any significant influence on the proportional distribution of the population between the States. 
The Chief Electoral Officer, on that advice, felt that he could not issue a certificate unless he sought legal advice. We are currently seeking legal advice to ascertain whether it is possible for him to issue a certificate. I hope that that information will come to hand in the not too distant future. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The assertions of the Goodradigbee Shire Council were exhaustively examined by the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment which called expert witnesses and sought advice from the responsible New South Walesauthorities. The Committee report on Canberra Sewage Effluent, dated December 1971, indicated that 'The tone of the evidence given on behalf of the Council conveyed the impression that the assertions were based primarily on subjective belief, in the main unsupported by factual or quantitative evidence but frequently couched in emotive language.' (page 7). 
The Commonwealth is continuing the programme of testing and observation endorsed by the Senate Committee and action is being taken to implement the Committee's recommendations. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 221. 
115. 
The corresponding sections and establishment of the Primary Industries Branch, Northern Territory Division in the Australian Capital Territory are: 
Animal Industry and Agriculture - 3. 
Forestry and Fisheries - 4. 
Tourism and National Parks  -  2. 
These figures do not include the Head of the Branch or his Steno-secretary. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department does not maintain records pertaining to contracts entered into between members of the public and builders in respect of dwellings or any other type of building work in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Yes. 
No. 
I saw and heard the allegations referred to in some newspapers and in some news bulletins on the radio. Since I anticipated I would be asked a question on this matter because of the scandalous implications, I have with me a copy of a telegram I sent to the person concerned. The background to this is that the ABC News submitted to me on Sunday 12th March a series of allegations said to have been made by  Mr Westerway  that day at a New South Wales Labor youth conference. 1 was asked to comment on those allegations. I must conclude that the allegations were in fact made for  Mr Westerway  has scuttled away from them. He has declined to answer a telegram despatched by me the following day, the Monday, in which I recounted the reported allegations and asked him to confirm or deny them. The telegram I sent to  Mr Westerway  read as follows: 
ABC News yesterday reported statements by you in the following termsQuote: The General Secretary of the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales,  Mr Peter  Westerway, claimed today that officers of the Commonwealth Electoral Office had rigged election results in key marginal seats in previous elections. 

 Mr Westerway said ballot boxes had been substituted and votes deliberately miscounted. "The effect of this has been to help non-Labor parties in certain key seats. 

 Mr Westerway said he had only found out last night baw this was done. 
But he was proposing that the Australian Labor Party would form a flying squad of six people trained to detect these irregularities. 
The flying squad would concentrate on eight marginal seats in New South Wales at the Federal election later this year.  Mr Westerway  who is a former lecturer in Government at Sydney University made his allegations in an address to the annual Youth Conference of the Australian Labor Party. 
I then asked him, in this telegram, to advise me whether he had been reported correctly and, if so, I said that I expected him to supply me with the evidence to substantiate the statements. That was the end of the content of my telegram. But I did comment upon the report along these lines: If the report of (he statement was correct, I could only regard it as being defamatory, malicious and completely irresponsible, and I challenged him to produce the evidence to support the serious allegations against the officers of the Com.monwealth Electoral Office. It is reprehensible that the Secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party should defame the integrity and character of the officers of the Common.wealth Electoral Office in such a cavalier fashion, lt is complete and utter nonsense with a mischievous purpose and brings discredit to the Australian Labor Party. There ended my comment on his statement. - But I should also like to draw the attention of the House to the curious fact that despite the seriousness of the allegations at that time, the Press generally shied away from reporting them. Perhaps the answer lies in the extravagance of the allegations or the extraordinary secondary allegation among those submitted to me by the ABC News. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Traffic signals are being installed at the intersection of Fairbairn Avenue with the access road to the new Campell Park Defence offices. 
Yes. 
Initial occupation is expected late in 1972. 
Signals at the intersection of Jerrabomberra Avenue and Hindmarsh Drive are currently being installed for expected completion in April 1972. 
The signals at Campbell Park are being installed in conjunction with road construction for convenience and economy. Signals at the intersection of Jerrabomberra Avenue and Hindmarsh Drive are being installed as part of the programme of traffic control works on existing roads in Canberra. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Electoral officers make periodic visits to remote areas of Australia and conduct educational programmes for the purpose of acquainting the Aboriginal people of their enrolment and voting rights. Under the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act it is an offence to interfere with or to attempt to interfere with the free exercise by an Aborigine of his choice whether or not to enrol as an elector. 
The last educational programme in the Division of Grey was conducted during the period 3rd August 1970 to 14th September 1970. 
An educational programme in the Division of Grey will be conducted prior to the next House of Representatives election. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes.  (3) Details of New South Wales Parliamentary entitlements for ex-members are not known.  I  am endeavouring to obtain the information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 I think it is a well established practice that persons who wish to appear before commissions or committees of inquiry on a voluntary basis do so on the basis that they meet their own costs of attendance. With respect to the last part of the question, I will make further inquiries to ascertain whether this sort of facility will be available to assist Aborigines. I want to make it clear that I have had discussions with the officers of my Department to ensure that this committee of inquiry travels throughout the Northern Territory so that Aborigines can give evidence before it as much as possible - to ensure that the committee goes to Aboriginal centres or to as many of them as possible. 
Discussions and considerations have been taking place but I am not sure of the stage reached. I will make it my business to get this information and give an answer to the Leader of the Opposition in due course. 
I have seen the Press report to which the honourable member for the Northern Territory has referred - I think it was on 28th March - regarding a recent statement that I made on the construction and the sealing of a further section of the Alice Springs to Erldunda road. We will be constructing, upgrading and sealing a further 28 miles at an estimated cost of $1.1 65m to take it to a point 64 miles south of Alice Springs. The article to which the honourable member has referred stated that the South Australian Government has agreed to a Commonwealth proposal to assist in the sealing of the road, a major part of which is, of course, in South Australia. I would like to make it clear that there is no current proposal by the Commonwealth in relation to that part of the road in South Australia. However, there could have been some confusion due to the fact that the Commonwealth has approved in principle a standard gauge railway connection between Alice Springs and South Australia and discussions have been taking place on that particular matter. I agree with the honourable member for the Northern Territory that the road is a very vital transport link to the Territory. On the Nothern Territory section the Parliament has approved the sealing of the road to Erldunda, which is 125 miles south of Alice Springs. Under the current Commonwealth Aid Roads arrangements the Commonwealth will be providing South Australia with $13. 67m for arterial road accesses during the 5-year period which will conclude in 1974 and there has been an additional provision of $9m by way of capital grants to the South Australian Government that can also be used on such roads as the South Australian to Northern Territory link. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to insert in the Navigation Act power to make regulations for the measurement of ships' tonnage in the way provided in the tonnage mark scheme. This is a subject that has probably never been under consideration in this House. This is because the present law in Australia on tonnage measurement of ships is that contained in the British Merchant Shipping Act 1894 and amending Acts, insofar as they apply in Australia. The origins of tonnage measurement of ships are interwoven with those of ships themselves. The purpose of measurement is to establish criteria for ships' size by volume and a basis for levying dues and charges. Broadly a ship's net tonnage is an indicator of its earning capacity. In simple terms, it is the total enclosed volume of the ship - the gross tonnage - less the volume of the spaces in which cargo is not carried or that do not otherwise directly contribute to the earning capacity of the ship. 
Tonnage measurement is part of the whole process for the registration of ships, and not only our tonnage measurement legislation but the whole of our registration legislation exists in the British Merchant 
Shipping Acts. The Government has for some time been anxious to have this replaced with Commonwealth legislation, and new registration legislation will in fact be introduced as soon as possible. This Bill, however, will take care of the tonnage measurement aspects, as there is an urgent need for Australian ships engaged in overseas trades to be able to take advantage of the tonnage mark scheme on a similar basis to their competitors. 
I shall now refer to some of the clauses of the Bill in a little detail. Clause 6 provides the regulation-making powers that are necessary to enable Commonwealth tonnage measurement regulations to be made in place of the British tonnage measurement provisions. Sub-section (1.) of the new section 407a provides the general regulation-making power, and sub-section (2.) provides specific regulation-making powers to ensure that there is no doubt that regulations may be made in respect of the matters mentioned in each of its paragraphs. The powers contained in most of those paragraphs would seem to be selfexplanatory, but there are 2 which I should explain. 
Paragraph (d) enables the regulations to have conditional provisions along the lines of the 1967 British Tonnage Measurement Regulations, as, for example, where certain spaces may be deducted from the gross tonnage of a ship, this deduction can be made conditional of the spaces conforming to certain requirements. 
Paragraph (f) provides for regulations to give effect to the tonnage mark scheme. Under the scheme a ship can have 2 sets of tonnage figures and a tonnage mark on its side. One set of figures applies when the tonnage mark is submerged and the dry cargo spaces between the second and upper decks are included in the ship's tonnage figures. The other set applies when the tonnage mark is not submerged, the dry cargo spaces between the second and upper decks not being included in the ship's tonnage in such circumstances. The tonnage mark scheme has been recommended by the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative organisation. Whilst Australian ships will for the time being continue to be registered under the Merchant Shipping Act, it is necessary, as I have indicated, that some provisions of the Merchant Shipping 
Act be repealed or amended, in so far as they are part of the law of the Commonwealth. These changes will not affect the operating of the provisions in so far as their application in the States is concerned. Sub-section (3.) of section 407a provides for the sections of the Merchant Shipping Act that are to be amended or repealed to be set out in a Schedule, which is to become Schedule VIII to the principal Act. The Schedule is inserted by clause 9. 
Clause 6 also inserts a new section 407b dealing with tonnage in the case of ships of countries other than Commonwealth countries. Briefly, it provides in effect that the Governor-General may, by proclamation, declare a country to be one the tonnages of whose ships will be accepted in Australia for the purposes of dues and charges, subject to any specified conditions and restrictions. It is expressed to apply only to ships of countries other than Commonwealth countries, as section 408 of the Navigation Act already covers the matter so far as ships of Commonwealth countries are concerned. Under sub-section (3.) of section 407b the Governor-General may, by proclamation, in effect require foreign ships measured according to rules substantially different from those operating in Australia, and those that have tonnage figures that appear to be at variance with the figures that would be expected, to be remeasured under the Australian regulations. 
Clause 7 amends section 409 so that if a ship to which it applies enters an Australian port unregistered, or if there is a dispute arising as to its correct tonnage, the ship will be remeasured under the new Commonwealth regulations rather than under the Merchant Shipping Act. Clause 10 will enable regulations for tonnage measurement purposes to be formally made between the date when the Act receives royal assent and the date on which, under clause 2 (2.), the sections of the amending Act concerning tonnage measurement are brought into force by proclamation. However, the regulations are not to come into operation before the latter date. 
The opportunity has been taken to effect amendments on 2 other matters within the Navigation Act. The first of these, which is dealt with by clauses 3 and 4, raises the minimum age for employment at sea under the Navigation Act, including apprentices, from 15 to 16 years. The minimum age in practice is already at least 16, and whilst covering this the amendment will put Commonwealth law in the matter in an even better position in relation to relevant International Labour Organisation conventions. The second matter involves repeal, by clause 8, of section 423a. This section provides, broadly, that the GovernorGeneral may, by order, declare that, subject to certain conditions, specified provisions of the Act shall not apply in relation to Aboriginal natives of a Territory employed as crews on territorial vessels. The section has been inoperative for some time and, in accordance with the Government's policy of eliminating any potential source of racial discrimination, is being repealed. I trust that all honourable members will be pleased at the extension of the Commonwealth's own legislation that the Bill represents, and will support it. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport, I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Berth to berth, 14 hours. It is intended to operate the present schedule operated by the Princess of Tasmania' departing Melbourne at 7.30 p.m. and arriving at Devonport at 9.30 a.m. the following day. 
17½ knots. 
I did read a report that the Leader of the Opposition had made it clear that in the event of a Labor government coming to power  2  additional electorates would be created in the western areas of Sydney. 
The census does not show that, under the present arrangement. But the Leader of the Opposition has often referred of course, to a Supreme Court decision that was taken in the United States of America and has tried to relate the United States Constitution to the Australian Commonwealth Constitution. This of course implies that the Australian Parliament has acted ultra vires the Commonwealth Constitution, and that is so much nonsense. It is well known that if a Labor government is elected to power there will be a redistribution based on a one vote one value principle, not on the basis of those enrolled but on a basis which includes children and migrants not yet enrolled. 
And Aborigines. 
As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There appears to be no existing statutory authority under which action could be taken by the Commonwealth to make records available. 
Information obtained from insurance company records would be incomplete. Not all vehicles are insured against damage and some are not covered against the possibility of damage to other property. It could be expected that a large number of those not comprehensively insured would be vehicles several years old and if they were involved in accidents that their owners would bear the cost of repairs. 
In addition, not all accidents to insured vehicles would be reported. One factor that could cause a person to refrain from reporting an accident would be the franchise being greater than the cost involved. In any case, the cause of an accident, as reported by an insured driver, might not always be strictly accurate. Details relating to motor vehicles and drivers involved in accidents reported to the authorities are currently collected in the States and Territories and include makes and models of vehicles, ages of drivers and accident circumstances. The reporting of the extent of vehicle damage as part of the accident reporting process is a matter to which the Advisory Committee on Road User Performance and Traffic Codes is currently giving attention. This Committee is also currently examining the system of reporting road accidents in each of the States and Territories. In addition, the Expert Group on Road Safety is considering the question of accident reporting as part of its National Review. 
Commonwealth action will be taken in the light of the report by the Advisory Committee to the Australian Transport Advisory Council and the findings of the Expert Group on Road Safety. 
As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
First, it is not at all certain that the patches referred to were oil slicks. The fact that they disappeared in approximately twenty-four hours makes it doubtful at least that persistent oil was involved. In any case the slick, however composed, could certainly not have come from the tanker 'Cosmopolitan11' because it was observed before that vessel had departed from Port Philip Bay. 
Inquiries have been made with the Victorian Health Department, which has indicated that it neither received any approach regarding the Cosmopolitan 11' nor gave any directions concerning that vessel. 
I have separately ascertained, however that this vessel was chartered by one of the petrochemical companies to uplift an amount of material referred to in the industry as 'spent caustic' and to discharge it at sea when more than 100 miles from land. I am advised that 'spent caustic' is an industrial residue consisting of 90 per cent water and 10 per cent sodium salts which are either sodium sulphate or rapidly become sodium sulphate on exposure to the air. This material can be discharged at sea quite safely, but if it is treated at a petrochemical plant to break it down it emits an objectionable odour and this violates the Victorian Clean Air Act. I am advised that it is a universal practice to discharge this material at sea. Fisheries administrations here have expressed no concern about it. 
As indicated, any discharge from the 'Cosmopolitan 11' could not have given rise to the reported slicks off the Victorian coast. Even so, I am having inquiries made to determine whether the vessel discharged 'spent caustic' in accordance with the charterer's instructions, that is more than 100 miles from land, or otherwise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preliminary investigations suggest that the three areas below have potential for wood-chip development 
Melville and Bathurst Islands 
north east Arnhem Land 
north west Arnhem Land. 
and(3) In 1968 several companies made initial studies of the above areas. Aboriginal communities were consulted before these studies were commenced. 
and (5) If a wood-chip industry is proposed for any area, surveys will be made to exclude from development sites of traditional significance and areas which are unique or important for biological reasons. 
Any rights granted for  a  wood-chip industry will include requirements on the matters referred to as  a  means of preserving and enhancing the ecology of the area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See the Prime Minister's reply on page 684 of Hansard of 8th March 1972. 
It is not the practice of the Government to make public the details of such reports. 
The following countries allow people under 21 years of age to vote: 
Afghanistan; Albania; Algeria; Andorra - all male heads of families; Argentine; Austria; Barbados; Bolivia - married citizens; Brazil; Bulgaria; Burma; Cambodia; Canada; Ceylon; China: Costa Rica; Czechoslovakia; Dominican Republic; Equador; El Salvador; German Democratic Republic; Guatemala; Honduras; Hungary; Indonesia; Israel; Japan; Jordan - male Transjordanians but not Bedouins; Korea (South); Korea (North); Liechtenstein; Mexico - married citizens; Mongolia: Netherlands; New Zealand; Nicaragua - literate or married persons; Poland; Romania; Sweden; Switzerland - males; Tanzania; Thailand - Thai nationals; Tunisia; Turkey; United Kingdom - British and citizens of Irish Republic living in United Kingdom; Uruquay; U.S.S.R.; Venezuela; Vietnam (South); Vietnam (North); Yugoslavia; Zambia. The following States of the U.S.A. also allow persons under 21 years of age to vote - Alaska; Georgia; Hawaii and Kentucky. 
As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport, I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Pending review of Commonwealth Railways By-laws the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner issued an administrative directive on 18th October 1971 to the effect that Commonwealth Railways employees who are on compensation for a period exceeding 3 months, would not lose pro rata annual leave for the period they are absent from work on compensation. 
Attention is invited to question on notice No. 3086 wherein advice was given that Com monwealth Railways By-laws were currently under review and amendment to the provision referred to was being considered. This review is not yet completed. 
The Public Service Board has advised that an employee employed under the Public Service Act who is absent and in receipt of benefits under the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees') Act 1971 does not lose his eligibility for recreation leave because of that absence. In those statutory authorities where the relevant legislation requires the approval of the Public Service Board to determinations of terms and conditions of service, similar standards are applied as in employment under the Public Service Act. 
 As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian trading vessels which have been docked and repaired overseas in each of the last 5 years are as follows: 
As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport, I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
None. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) Parliament has a responsibility for functions in the Australian Capital Territory which it does not have in relation to the States. In Public Service organisational terms there are two Divisions and part of a third comprising in all 12 Branches or 37 Sections of the Department of the Interior directly involved in such matters. It is not the present view of the Government that this aspect warrants additional representation over and above that justified by the number of electors but the question of representation for the Australian Capital Territory is one which the Government keeps under review. 
Broadcasting: Station at Exmouth (Question No. 5169) 
As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport, I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
This information is considered to be commercially confidential and I am not prepared to provide it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Deposits are required to be lodged by or on behalf of candidates in the undermentioned countries - 
As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At 1st March the ships in question operated between the following ports - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as set out in the table below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(1) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Advice, to Ministers by .their advisers is confidential and it is not the practice of the Government to disclose information,  about  interdepartmental committees. 
However while there have been some exploratory discussions between Commonwealth and State representatives about Canberra's future growth and the effect en the region, there have been no discussions about any problems arising from the purchase of lands outside the Australian Capital Territory by Canberra residents. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Contraceptives are provided free by the Welfare Division of the Northern Territory Administration to Aboriginal women where contraceptives are required on medical advice or where a woman wishes to plan her family and would otherwise be unable  to  do so for economic reasons. The estimated cost of contraceptives issued in this way during the past 12 months is $200. 
Contraceptives are not supplied by the Department within the Australian Capital Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Machine voting is used in the United States of America and in The Netherlands. 
Proposals for the use of voting machines at Parliamentary elections have been made from time to time and all have been examined. None of the proposals was considered to be practicable under Australian conditions. 
The, answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A person claiming to have his name placed on the electoral roll is required to set out in an electoral claim particulars relating to his qualifications for enrolment and to make a declaration in the presence of a witness concerning the truth  of  the statements in the claim. The person witnessing the claim for enrolment must satisfy himself, by inquiry from the claimant or otherwise, that the statements contained in the claim are true unless he knows that the statements contained in tha claim are true.  If  the Electoral Registrar is not satisfied that the claimant is entitled to enrolment, such inquiries as may be necessary  to  determine the claim shall be made, otherwise no further inquiry is made. 
A person, whose place of birth indicates that he may be an alien, could be required  to  produce his Certificate of Naturalisation. Under current procedures, a person is asked to provide particulars of his naturalisation when the 
Electoral Registrar is not satisfied that the claimant is a British subject. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The next educational programme to inform the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory of their franchise rights will be undertaken about August-September next in order to ensure that the greatest benefit is derived from the programme by these people before the next House of Representatives election. 
$4,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that information regarding the numbers of Aboriginals in each Electorate Division from the 1971 Census will not be available for some months. He has, however, provided information from the 1966 Census which shows that the following five Divisions had the largest Aboriginal population: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The distribution of how-to-vote cards, literature, etc. on polling day is an offence under the provisions of the Tasmanian Electoral Act. It is not an offence under the law of any other State of Australia. Information as to whether this practice is an offence under the electoral laws of countries other than Australia is not readily available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Except in Tasmania, State legislation provides for the appointment of Commissioners by the Governor of the State concerned for redistribution or redivision purposes. In respect of Tasmania, the Constitution Act 1934, as amended, prescribes the boundaries of the Assembly Divisions in the fourth schedule to the Act. The Assembly Division boundaries are identical with the boundaries of the Commonwealth ElectoralDivisions. 
New South Wales - (i) A person who is or has been a Judge of the Supreme Court or a member of the Industrial Commission of New South Wales or a Judge of a District Court; (ii) The person who for the time being holds the office of Electoral Commisssioner; (iii) A person registered as a Surveyor under the Surveyors Act. 
Victoria - Legislation is required in respect of each redivision of the State into electoral districts. For the purposes of the 1965 redivision, the Electoral Provinces and Districts Act 1965 provided that the Commissioners would be the Chief Electoral Officer for the State, the Commonwealth Electoral Officer for the State and the Surveyor-General for the State. 
Queensland - No qualifications are prescribed by legislation. Three Electoral Commissioners are appointed by the Governor. 
South Australia- (i) A Judge; (ii) The SurveyorGeneral or person acting as SurveyorGeneral; (iii) The Returning Officer for the State or person acting as Returning Officer. 
Western Australia-(i) The Chief Justice of Western Australia; (ii) The Chief Electoral Officer for the State; (iii) The SurveyorGeneral. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) Departments and Authorities involved in planning and development in the Australian Capital Territory have neither initiated action nor participated In discussions about the construction of the Billilingra Dam. 
Commonwealth officers have undertaken survey work in this area. 
Three projects have been surveyed in Cooma to Yaouk area since October 1970. They are: 
Control surveys for 1:9,600 mapping to the Australian Capital Territory. In this case, the surveys were required where maps along the Australian Capital Territory border cover parts of New South Wales. This project was commenced in October 1970 and field work was completed in January 1971. 
A third order levelling survey from Shannon's Flat to Cooma, along the Shannon's Flat Road. This survey was carried out to connect the Australian Capital Territory level network to the adjoining national level network in New South Wales, The work was undertaken by Commonwealth officers and a private surveyor on behalf of the Commonwealth and was carried out during October and November of 1971. 
A third order levelling survey from Murray's Gap to  a  point three miles south of the Tatangara Dam on the old Adaminaby Road. This survey was required for the same purpose as that along the Shannon's Flat Road and was carried out by Commonwealth officers between November 1971 and March 1972. 
and (7) In any case where entry onto private land was necessary, the landholder's permission to enter was sought and the purpose of the survey explained. That purpose was simply to bring Australian Capital Territory levels on to the Australian height datum. It was not related to any projects which might affect landholders. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following information has been extracted from the Parliamentary Handbook (Seventeenth Edition) 
House of Representatives Elections 
In answer to a question in this House on 21st March last, I referred to allegations said to have been made by  Mr Peter  Westerway, Secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party at a Labor Youth Conference held in Sydney on 12th March. The following is the text of the report of allegations referred to me by the 'ABC News': 
The General Secretary of the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales,  Mr Peter  Westerway, claimed today that officers of the Commonwealth Electoral Office had rigged election results in key marginal seats in previous elections. 

 Mr Westerway said ballot boxes had been substituted and votes deliberately miscounted. 
The effect of this has been to help non-Labor parties in certain key seats. 

 Mr Westerway said he had only found out last night how this was done. 
But he was proposing that the Australian Labor Party would form a flying squad of 6 people trained to detect these irregularities. 
The flying squad would concentrate on 8 marginal seats in Kew South Wales at the Federal elections later this year.  Mr Westerway  who is a former lecturer in government at Sydney University made his allegations in an address to the Annual Youth Conference of the Australian Labor Party. 
He also claimed that the Public Service was providing call-girls for male Vip's 
He said that he had no objection to the use of call-girls, but he objected to the public service paying for them. 
There I end the ABC report. The substance of the allegations was reported by other news media. In a telegram to  Mr Westerway  on the next day, 13th March 1972, I asked him to advise me whether he had been reported correctly and, if so, to supply me with evidence to substantiate his statements. I also sent a telegram to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on 14th March 1972 concerning the allegations by  Mr Westerway  but neither  Mr Westerway  nor  Mr Whitlam  has replied. Indeed, both have completely avoided the issue. This silence can point to no other conclusion than that the allegations are utterly false. 
I have discussed the allegations by  Mr Westerway  with the Chief Electoral Officer who has stated categorically that during his 30 years with the Electoral Branch, 13 years of which he has been the Chief Elec.toral Officer, there has not been a single incident, or suggestion of one, of any officer of the Electoral Branch rigging an election or committing any other malpractice in connection with the conduct of an election. It is despicable, cowardly and mischievous for a senior officer of the Australian Labor Party to slander and besmirch the reputation of the Commonwealth Electoral Branch and its officers in this way unless he can produce some evidence in support of it. 
It is a curious coincidence that the very people to whom he chose to make the extravagant claims have since pointed the vote rigging finger right at the New South Wales ALP machine for which  Mr Westerway  is responsible. Indeed, the revelations which have come out about the preselection for a candidate in the electorate of Shortland must come as a shock to the Australian people. In seeking some reason or motive for  Mr Westerway's  fantastic allegations, I cannot help but wonder if he was not indulging in the tired old ALP ploy - the diversionary tactic. 
Did  Mr Westerway  have some warning that he and the New South Wales ALP were for the hot seat and in desperation hit out blindly? I challenge the Leader of the Opposition to state whether he agrees with  Mr Westerway.  If he does, he should demand evidence of the allegations from  Mr Westerway  in order that the matter may be fully investigated. If he does not agree with  Mr Westerway  I call upon him to denounce the statements as utterly false. By his very silence the Leader of the Opposition stands aligned with  Mr Westerway.  Indeed his silence condones the falsity of the Secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party. 
The honourable member now has his chance to make his position clear. The honourable members of this House, indeed the Australian people, can make their own assessment of certain people in the New South Wales ALP, about whom serious allegations of vote rigging are being made by members of his own Party. I present the following paper: 
Administration of the Commonwealth Electoral Act- Ministerial Statement, 27th April 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the first question is no and the answer to the second question is yes. 
While I was in the Northern Territory at the end of last week I took the opportunity to visit the proposed Northern Territory national park. The Government, of course, recognises the need to protect the environment of this proposed park area and has already placed 2 areas of major ecological interest - Deaf Adder Valley and Jim Jim Falls - under a mining reserve, which means that no mining exploration shall take place in those 2 areas of special significance. The Government has also initiated 2. environmental impact studies of the area to provide information on ways to minimise damage from mining and other activities. We have also imposed very stringent conditions upon those companies that are carrying out mining exploration of the area, and the Government feels they should of necessity continue until the end of 1973, by which time the Government will be able to make an assessment of the . importance of the park area to the nation from a mineral and economic point of view and the importance of the park in an environmental sense. I have also had discussions with my own officers as a result of having seen some of the damage that is being caused by vandals and others who are going into the area. I have decided that we should take steps to have the area protected under the Wildlife Conservation and Control Ordinance, thereby safeguarding the Aboriginal paintings and the sites of special significance. Steps will be taken immediately to protect these sites under the provisions of the Northern Territory native and historical objects and areas preservation ordinance. I am also taking steps to have additional staff and rangers appointed to protect the area from the vandalism to which the honourable member for the Northern Territory has referred. 
by leave - It is the Government's intention to bring in an ordinance which will fill a need in relation to the law regarding trespass on Commonwealth lands in Canberra. Existing legal provisions are not sufficiently definite or precise in respect of persons camping on unleased Commonwealth land within the city area. This would apply to all open spaces such as Capital Hill, City Hill, median strips, nature strips and other vacant land. The proposed ordinance will make it generally an offence for persons to camp on unleased land in the city area and will empower authorities to move their possessions away in the event that they do not comply within reasonable time with a direction to remove them. The change in the law will, of course, apply to the areas around Parliament House. Adequate public notice will be given of the coming into effect of the ordinance. 
In speaking to this Bill and to the second reading speech of the honourable Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  I express the hope that the rest of his speech was more accurate than his suggestion that the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  had promised the 18-year- olds of this country a vote. But he was gracious enough to accept the explanation by the former Prime Minister. Unfortunately, the thought is left in my mind that perhaps the Australian Labor Party seeks to posture as the champion of the youth of this country and to create the belief that the rest of the people on this side of the House automatically adopt the opposite attitude. The Opposition is seeking to put the Government into a position of tactical disadvantage. The Government has not at any time taken issue on or implied opposition to the principle of a vote for 18-year-olds. Indeed, it might well be a proposal that has support from a great number of members on both sides of the House. But the issue before us is not whether we support or oppose the principle of votes for 18-year-olds; it is whether we will support the passage of this Bill at this particular time. This is the third time that the Leader of the Opposition has presented a Bill seeking to lower the franchise age to 18 years. It surprises me that the Leader of the Opposition should want to raise this issue at this time, well knowing that the Government appointed a committee to examine the age of legal responsibility and knowing that the Government has not yet concluded its considerations of the rather complex issues arising from this examination. 
Whilst legislation can be introduced and the franchise age dealt with as a separate issue, it is clear that a variety of issues must be considered closely linked in a practical way when determining the Government's policy - the age of marriage, the age of voting and the age of majority. The Opposition and honourable members on this side of the House have in the past agreed that these are closely related questions, some of them being in the Commonwealth area and some in the State area. I was always of the impression that members of the Opposition could see that there was a close inter-relationship between al] those factors. My learned friend, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  made this point in speaking in the debate on the Adulthood Bill 1970 on 4th June 1970 when he said: 
I do not think the question of the reduction of the voting age ought to be looked at in isolation from other various serious questions which arise in relation to the reduction of the age of majority for other purposes. The report of the Committee on the Age of the Majority - the Latey Committee - in the United Kingdom, which is a most impressive and illuminating document, did not touch on the question of whether the voting age ought to be reduced. There is one passage in that report which it may be useful to read to the House. 
The honourable member for Berowra went on to say: 
The majority report referred to at page 17 of the Command publication to the question of what was called the civic field - the question of jury service, whether 18-year-olds should serve on juries, and so forth. 
This part of the report states: 
But it does not seem to us that changes in the civil field are at all likely to follow changes in the private field even if we wish that they should. It is a very different thing to cope adequately with one's personal and private affairs and to measure up to public and civic responsibilities. Not every sound taxpayer is equipped to be Prime Minister and in the United States of America the  President  must be over 35. 
That is a quote from the report. It is obvious that the sole reason for introducing this Bill at this time is for the purpose of gaining some political advantage in the belief that this age group - the young people - would in any case favour the Australian Labor Party or that the Parry would enhance its image with the youth of Australia. I know we are in the game of politics, but I think that perhaps in the game of politics you can pursue this sort of line too far for the good of the community as a whole. But a government must pay regard to the serious aspects of any matter under its consideration and the technical problems associated with it. For example, it is an important consideration in Australia to maintain a uniform franchise for the Commonwealth and all the States. Without this uniformity there would be con siderable confusion and misunderstanding in the minds of the electors. There is the matter of reaching agreement with all the States, particularly the joint roll States, for uniform timing or franchise legislation. The position today is that the 18-year-old age franchise is operative in one State only, that is, Western Australia. I would like to run through the position in the various States so that it will be on the record. 
The position in each of the 6 States with respect to lowering the franchise age is as follows: In New South Wales legislation has been passed lowering the franchise age to 18 years but the Act has not yet been proclaimed. In Victoria the Government gave an undertaking in 1970 to the effect that it would negotiate with the Commonwealth for the lowering of the franchise age to 18 years, but the Premier has since indicated a change of mind in the subject. In Queensland Cabinet approved the lowering of the franchise age to 18 years but the Government deferred consideration pending information as to the Commonwealth's intentions. Iti South Australia an Act to lower the franchise age to 18 years has been passed and the law will become operative on and from 30th June 1972. In Western Australia an Act lowering the franchise age to 18 was proclaimed on Sth December 1970. In Tasmania the former Liberal Party Government in that State indicated its intention to lower the franchise age to 18 years, although it expressed the wish to act in conformity with other States in the Commonwealth. The new Reece Government has not yet indicated its intentions, but on 12th September 1968 the Tasmanian Labor caucus postponed a decision on legislation to lower the voting age and age of legal responsibility until after the Standing Committee of AttorneysGeneral had considered the issue. 
Whilst the Government has not expressed a view on the basic principle of granting the right to 18-year-olds, it is important to realise that the franchise age provisions of the Act could only be changed in time to give the 18-year-olds the vote at the next elections with consequent extreme pressure on the electoral administration at this point of time. I repeat, in order to give proper emphasis to this point, that it is an important consideration in Australia to maintain a uniform franchise for the Commonwealth and all the States. I believe that this was the point that the right honourable member for Higgins made this morning. He made it when he was Prime Minister and I, as the Minister for the Interior who has to administer this Act, make this point very strongly, for without this uniformity there would be and there will be considerable confusion and misunderstanding. 
In dealing with this matter in its historical perspective it is necessary to reflect that the matter was considered at a Premiers Conference held in June1968. It was at that conference that the then Premier of Tasmania raised for consideration by all other Premiers and the Prime Minister of the day the question whether the voting age should be reduced from 21 to 18 years. Flowing from that conference was the referral of the matter to the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. Until 1970 the Standing Committee had considered the question of the reduction of the voting age on 2 separate occasions. The first was in November 1968 at a meeting held in Perth at which the Standing Committee reached a consensual view that the reduction of the voting age should be approached on a uniform basis. This Committee maintained, of course, that there should be uniformity between the Commonwealth and each of the States. This question came up for further consideration in December 1969 at another meeting of the Standing Committee held in Adelaide. The Press communique released at the end of the meeting stated that the Standing Committee had formed the opinion that the legislation to effect a uniform reduction in the voting age would present no legal or constitutional problems, but the Standing Committee was reported in the Press release as stating that the question of a reduction in the voting age was ultimately a matter of Government policy and not a matter to be decided by that Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. 
I would remind the House of another matter. Joint rolls are used for both Commonwealth and State purposes in New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania - that is, 4 out of the 6 States. Consequently, the need to maintain a uniform franchise in those States is most desirable. Without such uniformity we might well find that a person who is compelled by law to vote in one State is in breach of the law if he tries to enrol when he crosses the border of that State. 
I understand that this matter could be the subject of a challenge in the High Court. I take it that the Leader of the Opposition is talking about the rolls? 
It is not impossible, but it is difficult to administer with the joint rolls as they exist. It should be obvious to anyone who has studied the problem that unless we are to have uniformity in the voting age throughout the States and the Commonwealth for the purposes of elections, there will be considerable confusion and great administrative difficulty in relation to enrolment. After 30th June, when the 18-year-olds will be entitled to enrol in South Australia for the purpose of State elections there will be a necessity to add some thousands of names of additional electors to the joint roll. They will be persons who in the present circumstances will not have a vote for the Commonwealth purposes. This is another good reason why there should have been an endeavour by the States, and indeed by the Commonwealth itself, to reach uniformity on the question of lowering the voting age. 
I want to get onto a point here about the view of the community - about the feeling or the groundswell in the community on this issue. According to reports, between 1943 and 1970 public opinion polls on the voting age showed that the percentge of electors in favour of giving the vote to a person at 18 years rose from 14 per cent to 51 per cent. The 1972 public opinion poll showed that those in favour of lowering the franchise age had dropped to 42 per cent. In that poll also about 300 persons aged between 16 years and 20 years were interviewed and of them 51 per cent favoured the vote being given at 18 years and 39 per cent favoured 21 years. Ten per cent were undecided. In the light of those public opinion poll figures how can it be said that the majority of 18-year- olds do in fact want the vote? If this Bill were passed it would raise another issue: 18-year-olds would be compelled to enrol and to cast a vote. Would this not be imposing on the majority of 18-year-olds in Australia an obligation that they have not sought? In this connection let me say that a distaste for politics is exhibited by a number of Australians, and this is associated with compulsory voting. Certainly it is by no means a rare attitude among young people, who would be affected by the Opposition's Bill, to resent being obliged to vote. 
The Leader of the Opposition made great play on what other governments and other countries are doing to give persons between 18 years and 20 years of age the right to vote. Although it is true that a great number of countries have lowered the franchise age to 18 years, very few of them compel the people affected to enrol or to vote. I want that point clearly understood. There is a significant difference between that position and the situation in Australia because of our compulsory franchise law. If the Bill put forward by the Leader of the Opposition is passed we will be forcing 600,000 or 700,000 young people to enrol and to vote - things which clearly are not sought generally except perhaps by a minority or vocal group. Undoubtedly in this community and in the more modern Western communities tremendous pressure is being imposed on young people by the systems of education, by our desire to make them better citizens and to make them add more to the community in one way or another. I have heard it said that a lot of young people resent the concept of having imposed upon them by law an obligation to cast a vote. 
I do not attend only Young Country Party meetings. I have had a lot to do with young people and I am expressing views that they have put to me. I think that members of Parliament run away with the idea that the world wants to vote for them. I think that a lot of people here have the view that every soul in this country is interested in what is going on in this place at every moment. The truth of the matter is that the majority of the people just look for solid and sound government, but resist compulsion. Certainly the people to whom this Bill would apply - the 18-year-olds and above - take that attitude, and I say this as a result of having spoken to a great number of them. 
An interesting fact is that although the Leader of the Opposition has initiated a debate on this issue on 2 previous occasions, there has been no evidence of a strong groundswell of opinion among 18-year-olds for the right to vote. If there is evidence, where is it? It would probably be true to say that had there been strong pressures within the community, the State governments would have acted in concert rapidly to give assent to legislation granting the franchise to 18-year-olds. Indeed, I have detected this rejection of the concept of a compulsory franchise among a considerable number of young people. 
Although it is true that 18-year-olds are more mature today, and are better educated than ever before, it does not necessarily follow, I reiterate, that they wish to have additional pressures cast upon them by being forced to vote at either Federal or State elections. I say this in passing because it is not completely clear to me that there is a strong demand on the part of 18-year-olds for the franchise. It has been reported that the Labor Party and the Australia Party have encouraged a number of young people in South Australia to seek enrolment. No doubt this move is intended to enable a challenge to be made in the High Court on the application of section 41 of the Commonwealth Constitution, which provided: 
No adult person who has or acquires a right to vote at elections for the more numerous House of the Parliament of a State shall, while the right continues, be prevented by any law of the Commonwealth from voting at elections for either House of the Parliament of the Commonwealth. 
So the question of legal entitlement to vote at 18 years of age hinges largely on the interpretation of section 41 of the Constitution, and specifically on the interpretation of the word 'adult'. While the Leader of the Opposition has referred at length, in a previous speech on this issue, to the youth of today maturing much earlier than in the days of our forebears, it can be argued quite strongly that earlier maturity and greater intelligence do not necessarily make for greater political wisdom or even a greater desire to he involved in political activity. The Leader of the Opposition has used the argument that if a young man is old enough to fight and die for his country he is old enough to vote. Such an argument is not soundly based. Further the age at which it is appropriate to call up males for service in the defence forces might well vary according to the situation, and surely it cannot be seriously contended that the voting age should vary with the military contingency of the day. The cogent part of the argument has been accepted and acted on by the Government. It is of course a fact that the Governmernment has legislated - in fact it passed legislation in 1966  -  to give the franchise to any person under 21 years of age serving in a war zone. 
I want to reply to one point with respect to an interjection from the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  that the Leader of the Opposition answered. Speaking of the first past the post policy of the Australian Labor Party, I think the Leader of the Opposition said that he could not get it through. 
I think this is the sort of escape clause you have in propounding this sort of policy, is it not? You propound it and then you say: 'But we could not get it through the Senate*. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I suggest that the Minister direct his remarks through me. 
I want clarification, but I think I have the information I wanted. The honourable member for Boothby in a speech on 9th May made a point that I want to reiterate. He said: 
Then there are people - and unfortunately some of these people are on my own side of politics - who say: 'You will never get it through the Senate. You will get one vote one value or first past the post through the House of Representatives, but you will never get it through the Senate. 
He went on to say, and I support this view entirely: 
I should like to place this on record here and I hope that in the future no-one will ever say that I was proven to be right. It is possible to get it through the Senate. At present the composition of the Senate is 5 Democratic Labor Party senators, 26 Liberal-Country Party senators. 26 Australian Labor Party senators and 3 independent senators. At the forthcoming election for the house of Representatives  Senator Bonner  from Queensland will have to go to the people. It is possible - extremely unlikely - that he might be defeated, in which case the composition of the Senate would be 5 DLP senators, 25 Liberal-Country Party senators, 27 Labor Party senators and 3 independent senators. 1 do not know where the independent senators stand. One of them has been a member of every Party, including being the Leader of the Australia Party for a short period. 
This is really the question 1 address to people who think that they might punish the Government by voting against it just once. If there were a Labor administration and Senate of the composition to which I have just referred, would it not be possible for someone to be appointed as ambassador to somewhere or other, or for someone to die or to be absent on account of sickness? All of these things are possible. 
So it is really quite nonsensical to say that you have a policy but to ask the people of Australia not to be afraid of it because you will never get it through the Senate. That is a very fallacious argument to adopt. 1 come back to the Bill. Having regard to the deep implications of the proposals embodied in the Bill, and in the light of all considerations, particularly in relation to the position of the States and the lack of uniformity to which I have referred, and certainly in the absence of community pressure, the Government's position is that the Bill ought not be given a second reading at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information from the 1971 Census will not be available for some months. The Northern Territory Administration records provide an approximate figure of 11,000. 
On the best information available from Administration records approximately 4,500. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information furnished by the National Librarian indicates that voting is compulsory in the following countries - Australia; Argentina; Austria (in the federal provinces of Styxia, Tyrol and Vorarlberg); Belgium; Bolivia; Brazil (for all literate citizens); Chile; Costa Rica; Dominican Republic; Ecuador (voting, is a duty); El Salvador (voting is a legal right and a moral duty but is compulsory in only a few departments); Greece; Guatemala (forall literate citizens); Italy; Liechtenstein; Luxemburg; Mexico; Paraguay; Peru; Philippines; Rwanda; Singapore; Switzerland (in the cantons of Schaffhouse, Appenzell, Rhodes- Exterieures Argovie, Thurgovie, Saint-Gall and Tessin); United Arab Republic; and Venezuela. 
Interstate Postings of Servicemen with Children at Secondary Schools (Question  No. 5354) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A meteorological reporting station requires a site suitable for obtaining temperature and rainfall figures representative of the Geelong area. Observations must be taken twice a day every day of the year. 
The Bureau of Meteorology is looking for a suitable organisation preparedto take on the responsibility of maintaining a reporting station in the Geelong area. 
In answer to Question No. 5233 by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who asked, in part, which countries allow people under the age of 21 years to vote, I listed the respective countries and added that the following States of the United States of America also allow persons under 21 years of age to vote - Alaska, Georgia, Hawaii and Kentucky (see Hansard, 11th April 1972). 
Later information has revealed that with the certification of the 26th Amendment to the United States of America Constitution on 6th July 1971, 18, 19 and 20 year old persons became eligible to vote in all County, State and Federal elections in the United States of America. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The United States of America 'Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971' limits the amount a candidate or his immediate family may contribute to his own campaign to $50,000 for  President  or Vice  President,  $35,000 for  Senator and  $25,000 for Representative. 
The 'Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971' also limits the amount that may be spent by or on behalf of federal candidates for advertising in communications media (including radio, television, newspapers, magazines, billboards and automatic telephone equipment) to 10 cents per eligible voter, or $50,000, whichever is the greater. The limitation applies to all candidates for  President  and Vice  President, Senator and  Representative and will be determined annually for the geographical area of each election. Up to, 60 per cent of the over-all media limitation may be spent for broadcasting purposes. 
Further details may be obtained from the 'Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971' a copy of which is available for perusal in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonweatlh and the Slate of New South Wales have agreed in principle to the construction of a dam at Googong on the Queanbeyan River. 
No timetable has been adopted but it is expected that preliminary work will start next financial year. 
The filling of the Dam is contingent upon rainfall but it is expected to commence supplying water to Canberra by 1977. 
The waters of the Molonglo River are to some extent diluted by the Queanbeyan River. 
However, the extent of dilution and the effect on toxicity in the Molonglo River is dependent upon rainfall and other conditions applying in the individual catchment areas. 
(a) Some reductionin the flow of the Queanbeyan River can be expected while the Dam is filling. 
Yes, in certain climatic conditions. 
Investigations are proceeding towards identifying the specific source or sources of pollution and the design of measures to reduce mineral pollution in the Molonglo River to an acceptable level. A solution to the problem is needed irrespective of the Googong scheme. 
No. See answer (6) above. 
and (9) Investigations are proceeding as outlined in (6) above. 
The estimated cost of the Googong Dam including all associated works is $30m. 
It is not the practice of the Government to disclose estimated values prior to commencement of action to acquire. 
and (13) There is no proposal to pipe water from Tantangera. Investigations have shown that there are advantages in proceeding with the Googong proposal. 
Representatives of several Departments or Authorities have had discussions with representatives of New South Wales State Departments about the Googong Dam proposal and associated matters. 
, (16) and (17) It is not the practice of the Government to make available any recommendations or reports of inter-departmental committees or meetings of this kind. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The objects towards which the proceeds from a lottery are applied are a matter for the applicant organisation. If a community body submitted an application to conduct a lottery in aid of aged persons it would be considered on its merits, as was done with the lottery referred to in (1). 
Not at this stage. 
Not for these purposes but the A.C.T. Advisory Council did recommend the establishment of a government lottery in September 1970. 
The Government not being prepared to underwrite the proposal, it was not considered expedient. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The lease of Padbury Building expires on 6th May 1975. 
Estimated value is about$1.1m. The property is held for the Postmaster-General's Department and its future use in the first instance is primarily a matter for that Department. 
Yes. 
No. 
Any future approach by the Western Australian Government will receive due consideration, subject to the property becoming surplus to Commonwealth requirements. 
I am unaware of the points that the Leader Opposition has raised. I will take it upon myself to take into account the points that he has brought  10  my attention. 
I am also unaware of this. I have not seen the flag. I have not gone looking for it. I will give the honourable gentleman Information in due course, after I have considered the matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the Leader of the Opposition drew this matter to my attention I took the trouble to read a copy of the Canberra Times' and, indeed, I was given 2 copies and a photograph. I have initiated some inquiries into the matter. One thing that I think the House ought to know is that in Canberra people can do what they like on their own premises on leased land, provided they do not breach the law in any way. It should not be necessary to remind this House that we do not have an authoritarian dictatorship in this country. On numerous occasions we see the Vietcong flag flying at rallies. The Leader of the Opposition himself has addressed meetings in the presence of such a flag, so I daresay this has made him flag conscious. No doubt this is what prompted his question yesterday. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The required information is not available as the birthplace of electors is not collated. 
 Mr Speaker,  I would like to make a personal explanation. 
For the information of honourable members I table the report of the committee to review the situation of Aborigines on pastoral properties in the Northern Territory, commonly known as the Gibb Report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information has been supplied in the past by the relevant electric supply authorities. The collation of this information into a statement of comparative electricity costs is attended by difficulties. There is a range of factors which affects costs and returns and because differences can arise in the interpretation and subsequent use of these figures it is considered preferable for the honourable member himself to seek the information. The addresses of the authorities whose figures have previously been given are supplied below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As stated in answer to an earlier question, the Department of the Interior is negotiating the purchase of a site for Commonwealth offices in 
Bendigo. However, due to revised space requirements for the Commonwealth in Bendigo further design work on the proposed building will be necessary and it is not likely that the project will proceed in 1972-73. When design is completed, the question of funds for this project will need to be considered in the context of overall Commonwealth office requirements and the availability of funds at the time. 
I cannot give the honourable gentleman an accurate estimate of the percentage of Aborigines to Europeans who were camped at the 'embassy'. We did have a transitory group of people over the period of the 6 months that they were camped in the 'embassy'. In fact, when one group left another group arrived. They were mostly part Aborigines. On the days of confrontation, certainly the Aborigines and part-Aborigines were in the minority to the Europeans who were involved in the confrontation. 
The first thing that I want to say in reply to the honourable , member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)'  -.is, that- he based most of his argument upon what he regarded to be an extraordinary assessment I. had made of what could have, transpired on that Sunday, 30th July.. :We- can all make, our assessments and we;can all-have our hindsight, but we saw published in the Press on 26th July a statement by one of the Aboriginal leaders. Under, the headline Preparing for . Sharpeville' this ..article appeared in one of the Canberra . newspapers:  .'k 
Aboriginal leaders last night were,; preparing for another Sharpeville' following a . judge's .rejection of an injunction to allow the Aboriginal, 'embassy' to be re-erected. They said ' a mass demonstration of 'Aboriginals, students and trade unionists would be held on Sunday outside Parliament . House to re-establish the tent embassy. 
I will tell the honourable member what happened at Sharpeville. On 26th March 1960 at Sharpeville -in South Africa there was a direct confrontation between black Africans and police,- leaving 67 people dead and 168 injured. It was against that background that I felt I had to return to Canberra to talk to people to ensure that we did not have the violence that was predicted by some people. I have read that the main thrust of the attack that has been upon me as the responsible Minister is related to the propriety of gazetting the amended Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance while Parliament was in recess. I remind the House that the Ordinance was made under the provisions of section 12 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act. The Ordinance was designed by the Government to prohibit camping on unleased land in the city area of Canberra unless such land had been declared a camping area by the Minister for the Interior or unless a permit had been granted in relation to one of the special purposes identified in the Ordinance. 
The honourable member for Fremantle quoted what one of our learned judges in Canberra has said but the legal advice that was available to the Government indicated that in order to protect unleased Commonwealth lands from camping, whether it be on median strips, nature strips or areas around Parliament House, the Ordinance itself would have to be amended. So acting on that advice the Government amended the Ordinance. The legislation does not restrict the traditional rights of freedom of speech or assembly or the rights of people to protest. This form of legislation gives powers similar to that which relates to the control of camping on what might be described as municipal land and is common throughout Australia. As honourable members wm recall, the so-called embassy was established on 26th January 1972, and legal advice given to the Government was that existing law did not satisfactorily cover the situation and that it was desirable to have specific provisions. In February 1972, hi answer to a question from the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  atom the campers, I indicated that the people concerned were Aborigines demonstrating in a peaceful way for a cause in which they believed. But I said that for the future we would have to look at the Ordinance to ensure that the Parliament House lawns were reserved for their proper use and were not to be a place on which persons could camp indefinitely. The fundamental fact remains that the Government was faced with the situation in which any protest group or minority group, whether they be fascists, Croatians, unionists, pensioners, wool growers, wheat growers - you name it - could camp with impunity on the lawns outside this building or on unleased land in the city area of the national capital, Canberra. How could a responsible Government tolerate such a situation when a defect in the law had been exposed. 
It is not a question of the Government taking action against the Aborigines; it is a question of the Government facing up to its responsibilities of preserving public places in Canberra for public use. Surely no group should have the right to pitch tents indiscriminately and to proclaim a cause for a lengthy period, thereby impeding the access of people to public areas. It was to give effect to that basic principle that the amendments to the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance were drafted. It was not an easy exercise, because it was necessary to balance adequately the right of individuals against that of the public interest. On 11th May 1972 I stated to this House that the Government intended to bring in an Ordinance. I made it clear that the Ordinance would make it generally an offence for persons to camp on unleased land in the city area and would empower authorities to remove their possessions if they did not comply within a reasonable time with a direction to remove them. In my statement I stressed that the law would apply to the areas around Parliament House. An identical statement was made by  Senator Cotton  in the Senate and it is important to recall that not one member of the Opposition either in this House or in the Senate took the opportunity to challenge the Government's intention or decision in this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. However a minimum strength per shift refers to the minimum at the commencement of each shift. 
No. If at the commencement of a shift less than the operational minimum at Forrest reports for duty sufficient recalls are made to satisfy that minimum. Where for any reason the operational minimum falls after commencement below that which is specified for the commencement consideration is given by the Chief Officer to the measures necessary to meet the needs of the Station. 
No. 
and (5) No. 
Yes. 
The minimum operational strength has been maintained in accordance with that specified by the New South Wales Board of Fire Commissioners. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics about the number of shops and factories in the Australian Capital Territory, as defined by the Factories and Shops Act of New South Wales, are not available. 
Statistics of the number of persons employed in shops and factories have not been maintained. 
Staff resources are not currently available to apply to this data collection. Having regard to the scope and complexity of industry in New South Wales a survey based on the definition of shops and factories in that State's legislation might not have relevance to the Australian Capital Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
, (4), (5), (6) and (7) Since 17th May 1971, 121 motorists have been reported for having inefficient silencers resulting in 107 summonses being issued. Nevertheless, the Department of the Interior is aware that the present provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance dealing with vehicles causing undue noise are not sufficiently wide to cover excessive noise arising from irresponsible use of motor vehicles. Action is being taken to strengthen the Ordinance but  a  draft has not yet been prepared. It should be ready for the Budget session. No statistics are kept about convictions of motorists summonsed for having inefficient silencers. 
and (3) No statistics are kept about the number of complaints concerning excessive noise by motor vehicles but it is estimated that they number two or three a week. Inquiries are made and appropriate action taken in relation to complaints. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Great Britain, India, Japan, New Zealand, Philippines, Rhodesia, Singapore, South Africa, United States of America. 
(a), (b) and (c) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
to (7) Possible amendments to the Objectionable Publications Ordinance 1958-1966, which is an Ordinance administered by the Minister for the Interior have been under consideration. These considerations have included proposals to introduce a restricted category for certain publications and to provide for the machinery necessary for the introduction of that category recently considered at a meeting between responsible Commonwealth and State Ministers. Some other amendments to the Ordinance are also being considered as possible ways of overcoming problems which have become apparent in the administration of the Ordinance. Any amendments proposed will be referred to the Advisory Council in the normal manner. At this stage it is not possible to say when any amendments might be made. 
Education:  Away-from-Home  Allowances (Question No.  5975) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For many years the Canberra Fire Brigade has reported to the Proper Authority, under the Building Regulations in relation to all new commercial buildings in Canberra. This practice continues. These reports deal with: 
matters which are not covered by the Building Manual Australian Capital Territory; and 
any other matters which may or may not be covered by the Manual but which the Chief Officer considers are of importance and which he wishes to draw to the attention of the Proper Authority. 
The Chief Officer of the Canberra Fire Brigade holds an authority from the Minister for the Interior to give directions for the provision or installation of fire appliances in commerecial buildings. 
The official responsibility under the legislation for determining whether laid down standards have been met has always rested with the Department's architectural and engineering officers. It was recently found necessary, to clarify the respective roles of Departmental officers and the Chief Officer to make it clear that the responsibility for structural aspects rested with the Proper Authority under the Building Regulations and the responsibility for appliances rested with the Chief Officer, Canberra Fire Brigade. This was done after consultations with the New South Wales Fire Board who provide the personnel for the Canberra Fire Brigade. 
I visited the area earlier this year, on a suggestion made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory, because of a degree of vandalism that was taking place in the proposed national park area, lt was as a result of this visit that I decided to have set aside 1,250 square miles as a wildlife sanctuary, and my Department has agreed to appoint 5 rangers to ensure that the environment is protected until such time as the question of the proposed national park is settled. I am not sure whether the 5 rangers have been appointed, but every effort is being taken to protect the area. Agreement has been reached between the mining companies which are prospecting over the area and the Government to contribute on a Si for $1 basis towards an environmental impact study to protect the environment including the fauna and flora. An executive committee has been set up. It includes representatives from the Northern Territory Administration, the Department of National Development, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the mining industry and the Australian Conservation Foundation. 
Jim Jim has been set aside specifically as a mining reserve. No mining can take place there or at Deaf Adder Valley, which has a total area of 129 square miles. Senior officers of my Department are in the area at the present time with a director from the South Australian Museum to investigate ways and means of protecting the Aboriginal paintings that are there. 
 The Aboriginal people are part of the Australian community and we do not have one law for the Aboriginal people and another law for other Australian people. I want to make that point -very clear. But since the honourable member has brought this matter to my attention I will make investigations through the police to ascertain the facts. I have not had this matter brought to my attention officially other than hearing that a caravan was not parked in breach of the law. However, I will take the matter up with the Commissioner of Police who is the custodian of the law in this city. 
I thank the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  very much for advising me that he was going to speak on the motion that the House adjourn. I also thank him for bringing quite eloquently to the attention of the House a case for a review of the present provisions that apply to the allocation of life gold passes. I will take this matter up with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on an appropriate occasion. I have no doubt that we will report back to the House at some future time. However, I do thank the honourable member very much for raising this issue. 
No, I personally have not received the Maunsell and Partners report. Therefore I have not studied it. I will consider the point that the Leader of the Opposition has raised. 
by leave - I wish to give more detail in reply to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  about the report on Jervis Bay by Maunsell and Partners Pty Ltd. I have since had the opportunity of checking this matter. This report was not commissioned by the Department of the Interior or by the Commonwealth. We do not have a copy of it and, therefore, we have no obligation to table it. The Commonwealth's interest in Jervis Bay is limited to the southern arm and to a lease over portion of the northern arm. Beyond that area it is sovereign New South Wales land and undoubtedly it is up to the New South Wales Government to make decisions on its use. Hence I have not seen the report, nor would 1 have authority to table it. 
I will try to get a copy. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Drugs (Question No. 5996) 
by leave - The Government is acting to place beyond doubt the effective operation of the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1972. This action followed a decision earlier today by the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory in which the Supreme Court held that the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1972 was not notified in accordance with the requirements of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act and was not therefore in operation. The Government has therefore taken steps as a matter of urgency to remedy the defect of notification found by the Supreme Court in its decision. Notification of the Ordinance is to be gazetted tonight, and as soon as published it will be explained to any campers on the lawns outside Parliament House that the Ordinance is now effectively in operation and that they would be expected to comply with the provisions of the Ordinance. I inform the House that  Mr Justice  Fox in his judgment stated: 
The plaintiffs have no right to go on the land or remain thereon. 
As soon as the Ordinance becomes effective the campers will be asked to remove their tents. It is not intended to remove the people involved. If they wish to continue protesting in the normal way, they will be quite entitled to do so. 
This matter has been drawn to my attention and I sympathise with the parishioners who might have been upset by the demonstration which took place outside the Cathedral. However, it would appear that there was no breach of the law. I have asked the Commissioner of Police to investigate the matter. I checked with my Department this morning and, as far as I am aware, no official complaint about the demonstration has been lodged with my Department or with the police. I can only regard the action by the people concerned as being in very poor taste and interfering with the rights of individuals to conduct their worship - in this case, Mass at the Cathedral throughout Sunday - and I hope that people who desire to protest in some way or another will respect the rights of people to worship in this country as they so wish, without this sort of impediment. 
1 oppose the suspension of the Standing Orders to enable a debate to proceed on this issue, particularly in view of the fact that there is a fairly extensive legislative programme ahead of the Government. Quite clearly for political motives we are seeing a situation develop within the ranks of the Opposition whereby this issue has been raised within a few weeks of an election campaign. It is one of those instant coffee type situations that can arise, and certainly have arisen, on the eve of an election campaign. It is quite obvious from speeches that have been made in this House on several occasions that the Government has stated its position very clearly, namely, that to lower the franchise age without taking into account all the other related issues, such as the age of legal responsibility and the age of marriage, is unwise. 
The Government has been considering for some considerable time a report that was prepared by the various departments on this whole question. I believe that to introduce a Bill to lower the franchise age before the States as a whole have finally resolved to introduce this measure is to rush the issue at a ridiculous pace. Admittedly, South Australia and Western Australia have legislated to introduce the 18, 19 and 20-year old franchise. 
New South Wales has introduced legislation but it has not been proclaimed. I gather that that applies to a number of other States; indeed I think there is one State which has not yet made a decision on this matter. Why are we rushing this measure? Has there been a great clamour by 18, 19 and 20-year old people to exercise the franchise? I have spoken to a great number of young people on many occasions at various meetings. Whilst some may have expressed the view that there is an argument for lowering the franchise age, the question often has been asked: Should they be forced to enrol? These are the issues that I believe any government should take into consideration. We have to determine whether in fact the 18, 19 and 20-year-olds want the vote and, if a body of them does, whether we should make it compulsory for them to enrol. I do not think we should be stampeding the young people, who have enough pressures including education pressures on them at this time, into a situation in which they are forced to vote. 
I believe that far too often members of this House - indeed parliamentarians generally - are inclined to think that the whole world revolves around them and that the whole community is interested in what we are doing in this place. In many cases parliamentarians feel obliged to try to impose upon people an obligation to vote for them. I wonder whether that is a right and proper thing to do at this time. I suppose that there would be political reasons why a party would want to try to stampede this issue on the eve of an election campaign, thinking that there could be short term political gains in the form of support at the polls from the youth of Australia. But the whole spectrum of the age of legal responsibility has been debated in this House on several occasions. As I said in an earlier debate, the issue of the age of legal responsibility and the age of marriage has a relevance to the question of adulthood. Indeed, the High Court of Australia unanimously decided that under section 41 of the Constitution people under 21 years of age must be regarded as not being adult for the purpose of the franchise. My Department and the Government certainly are studying that High Court judgment. I appeal to the House not to try to rush something through like this on the eve of the election, as it were. Even if we did go ahead with this Bill, even if both sides of the House agreed that there should be a lowering of the franchise age. there would be enormous and very serious technical difficulties facing the Commonwealth Electoral Office in trying to effect the enrolment of 18. 19 and 20-year-olds on the eve of an election. 
This matter should be thought through. I believe that there has been good reason for debating the issue; I think it is a good thing if society considers the issue. However I do not think it would serve any purpose to suspend the Standing Orders and to put aside other business which the Government deems to be urgent in order to deal with this matter on the eve of an election. I believe that the Opposition's move is nothing more than a political sham. 
I understand that the Gazette was published and circulated soon after midnight, or thereabouts. It was soon after a statement in this House that the notification was made. A copy was taken across to the people who were associated with the tent and also a copy was handed to the Press. I made a statement in the House last night saying that notification of the ordinance was to be gazetted last night and, as soon as it was published, it would be explained to any campers on the lawns outside Parliament House that the ordinance was effectively in operation and that they would be expected to comply with its provisions. With respect to the question asking whether any proceedings are before the courts, I cannot give exact details on this, but I shall supply them to the honourable member at the earliest opportunity. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement to the House on the same subject. 
Firstly, I thank the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  very much indeed for tabling the report and also for the speech which he has made. I take this opportunity to thank the members of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory for the tremendous work which they have done since 1 have been the Minister for the Interior, and for the advice which they have tendered to the Government over the period. I understand that the Committee was first appointed on 8th November 1936. It has been reappointed by succeeding governments. I know that every member of the Committee takes his responsibilities very seriously. An extensive amount of investigation has certainly gone into the preparation of this report and recommendations. The Government will certainly take into consideration the recommendations which the Committee has made. On behalf of the Government I thank every member of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory very much for his good work. 
 There is one point on which I would like to join issue with the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and that is the fact that apparently on some occasion the police erected a tent for shelter. Of course, it was not there for 6 or 7 months. It was not there for any length of time. So I think that its relevance is not terribly important with respect to the total argument. In a recent debate in this House I detailed the Government's reasons for proceeding with the amendments to the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance. I do not want to take the time of the House by recounting those reasons in detail. The Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1972 is an ordinance amending the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1932-1965. The ordinance was made under the provisions of section 12 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1970. The validity of the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1972 has been considered by the full Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, and the court found no fault in the ordinance.  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Fox made the following observation: 
I am of the view however that the plaintiffs have failed to establish any case for an injunction. They do not claim simply to be on the land, as pedestrians, or for some casual recreational purposes, or even as members of an assembly, as that term is ordinarily understood. They claim a right to erect and maintain a number of tents and live therein for an indefinite period. Whatever the position may be if the Commonwealth consented to such a course, it is apparent that the Commonwealth does not consent, but on the contrary actively opposes it. In these circumstances, the plaintiffs have no right to go on the land, or remain thereon, for the purposes mentioned. 
The other Justices comprising the court endorsed His Honour's views. As honourable members know, and we have been discussing this practically all day, the court found that the ordinance had not been notified in accordance with the Seat of Government (Administration) Act and for that reason it had not been operative. This defect has since been remedied. 

 His Honour  Mr Justice  Fox in the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory has suggested, as the honourable member for Fremantle has said, that it would have been possible to move the campers under the general law. The Commonwealth might have exercised its ordinary rights as owner of the land to remove the tents put there without its authority. Alternatively, the Commonwealth might have instituted proceedings in the Supreme Court to have the campers and their equipment removed. These courses were considered but in each case it was felt that there were uncertainties in the existing law and some difficulties about its application to this particular case. It was therefore felt on this advice that the situation required a specific law which could clearly enable people to identify their rights. The ordinance is designed to prohibit camping on unleased Commonwealth land in the city area of Canberra unless such land has been declared a camping area by the Minister for the Interior. The definition of the city area is established by notices appearing in the Commonwealth Gazette from time to time. The last such notice was printed in Gazette No. 102 of 8th December 1966. 
The honourable member for Fremantle has expressed concern regarding the provisions of section 8c of the ordinance. I point out to the House that this section is purely an evidentiary provision which enables an officer of the Department of the Interior, authorised in writing by the Minister, to certify that the land described in the instrument belongs to the Commonwealth, is within the city area and is not a camping area for the purposes of this ordinance. Although it is simple to establish the identity of leased land, the procedure is extremely complex with respect to unleased land because no certificate of title exists. Formal proof that a parcel of land is unleased would necessitate surveys, the production of title deeds and most of the records of the Lands Branch of the Department of the Interior. The other provisions of the ordinance were elaborated in the explanatory statement that was tabled with the ordinance. 
It is important to stress that in the drafting of this ordinance, as in the drafting of all other ordinances, particular regard was paid to the criteria which have been established by the Parliament, particularly by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. The legislation does not restrict the traditional rights, such as the right of freedom of speech and assembly; nor should it. Legislation giving power to control camping on what might be described as municipal land is common throughout Australia. Usually it is local government legislation. Indeed, legislation was passed recently in Western Australia, as the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  mentioned, with respect to the camping that had taken place on the lawns in front of Parliament House in Perth. That legislation led to the removal of a camp similar to that which was occupied on the lawns outside this House - with less difficulty, I certainly admit. 
The Government's intention was made known to the Parliament on 1 1th May 1972 in a statement that I made in this chamber and that  Senator Cotton  made, in another place. That statement made clear the Government's intention and made specific reference to the fact that the proposed changes would apply to the areas round Parliament House. As is usual with Australian Capital Territory ordinances this odinance was referred to the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council. That Council debated the ordinance on 13th June. That fact was reported in the Press. The details of the proposal then became public. I said repeatedly on television and radio programmes that the Government was amending the ordinance and that those concerned would be asked to remove their tents. When drafting was finally settled, the ordinance was signed by me and approved by the Administrator acting on the advice of the Federal Executive Council. The ordinance was gazetted on 20th July 1972. However, prior to the ordinance being gazetted, a senior officer of the Australian Capital Territory police informed the campers - on 17th July - that the legislation would be introduced and that it would require them to remove their tents and associated equipment. In fact, the terms of the. ordinance were explained to them. 
The only ways in which the processing of this legislation was in any way different from the normal processing of legislation for the good government of the Australian Capital Territory was in the fact that the Government announced its intention in both chambers of the Parliament, thus giving an opportunity for that intention to be debated here and outside. The Government also made arrangements for the persons to be affected by the introduction of the legislation to receive personal notice of its imminent introduction. In the course of the debate in this House on the 14th August I recounted in some detail the. steps that were taken to inform the public through the media - radio and Press - and the discussions that I had had with the campers themselves, including John Newfong, who was there for some considerable period, about the. effect of the legislation. I explained to the House on that occasion that the campers had made it clear when the police approached them that they were prepared to move when the. law came into force. I also informed the House that it was only upon the appearance of a large number of outsiders that their mood changed to one of defiance and the police were required to move the embassy tent. I recounted the series of discussions that I and other Ministers and officers of the Department had with campers or their representatives in an effort to avoid violence when the campers sought to re-erect the tent on 2 occasions. 1 do not wish to recount what I said during that debate. It is on the record. But it is plain that the Government did all it could do to avoid violence. I certainly did all 1 could do in discussions with the people concerned to avoid the situation that 1 hoped would not occur. It is also clear that the police did act with restraint in the circumstances. The Commissioner of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force has supplied me with a copy of a letter from  Dr James  S. Udy, Superintendent of the Methodist National Memorial Church. As one of the demonstrators, his view of the police action must be treated with respect. In fairness to the Australian Capital Territory police, I would like to quote from this letter.  Dr Udy  wrote: 
 I have had a number of- 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory- 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory has obviously tried to bring out a point of concern that is causing anxiety in the minds of people that he represents in Darwin. For reasons that I cannot comprehend members of the Opposition are trying to smother a reply to a very good question that he has asked on behalf of the people he represents. Of course, in the event of the Government's proceeding with the recommendations in the report, under the Lands Acquisition Act the Commonwealth Government would purchase on fair and just terms any land that had to be acquired. The honourable member for the Northern Territory is trying to obtain an undertaking that the people whose land or property is in the path of the freeway will be compensated for any loss incurred. I think that is a perfectly reasonable request on his part. I have had a number of telegrams and representations from people who are most concerned about the proposed route of the freeway. The Government did, however, approve the Palmerston arterial road at an estimated cost of $5.4m. The Public Works Committee has presented a report and so it is before the Parliament. Certainly the Northern Territory Administration and my own Department will be considering the positions of the people involved. I assure the honourable member for the Northern Territory that his constituents will not be completely overlooked in this issue. 
Pursuant to section 24 of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957-1960, I present the Fifteenth Annual Report of the National Capital Development Commission for the year ended 30th June 1972 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's Report on those statements. 
The 1972 electoral rolls are now published and available for distribution. 
I should like to make a correction to an answer I gave at question time to a question that was asked by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  I regret that 1 inadvertently gave the House the wrong information when answering the question, which was about the availability of electoral rolls and their date of distribution. 1 have since checked with the Chief Electoral Officer and the information that I have obtained from him is thus: In New South Wales, where there are 45 divisions, 32 rolls have been printed  3f  which 27 have been received by the Commonwealth Electoral Officer. Of these 21 rolls which have been distributed, 7 have been partially printed, 5 are photo typeset awaiting printing and one is ready for photo typeset. The printing of New South Wales rolls will be finalised by mid-October. In Queensland, the electoral rolls are currently being photo typeset and printing should be finalised by mid-October. In Tasmania, all rolls have been printed and distributed. In South Australia and Western Australia, the rolls will not be printed until the issue of writs. In Victoria, where there are 34 divisions, 19 rolls have been printed of which 15 have been distributed. The other 15 rolls have been photo typeset and are either being printed or are awaiting printing. The completion date of this printing is mid-October. Supplementary rolls will be printed for all States except South Australia and Western Australia as at the issue of the writs. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
There has been an examination of a feasibility study that was publicly invited in 1968 as part of a Territory-wide investigation of wood chip timber which could form the basis for an industry to provide employment and also a financial return to the Aborigines in Arnhem Land - the principle area that has some potential for a wood chip industry. No decision on further feasibility studies has been taken or will be taken until the Aboriginal groups themselves have been consulted and until such time as they want to see such an industry proceed. Consultations about the matter in general have been held with Aboriginal groups from not only the Yirrkala area but also Melville Island, Bathurst Island and some other areas in the northern part of the Northern Territory about the general prospects. In fact, we did invite a number of Aboriginal leaders to Canberra earlier this year. They were taken to Eden and shown a wood chip industry in operation. It was explained to them how it would operate and how reafforestation programmes could be implemented in the event of a wood chip industry being developed. It was then left to them to return to their own people and discuss the prospects. They were given film to take back and show to their own village councillors. There is no intention whatsoever on the part of the Government to proceed with any wood chip industry in the Aboriginal reserve area unless the Aborigines themselves are desirous of proceeding on an equity basis with companies in exploiting the timber of the area. The matter rests solely with the Aboriginal people. I believe that in the future it could provide a source of revenue for them. It would also provide a source of employment. But it is up to them to make the final decision. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Police for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Canberra Olympic Pool, constructed at a cost of $393,156, was opened on 28th January 1956. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The required information is not available as the birthplace of electors is not collated. 
The Government is considering the recommendation of the Public Works Committee with respect to the proposed Wooloomooloo offices construction. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the last 5 years Government homes have been (a) sold at current market valuation on 5 per cent deposit with a first mortgage loan of the balance repayable over 45 years at an interest rate equivalent to that prescribed under the Australian Capital Territory Housing Ordinance 1928- 1969 (currently 6¼ per cent per annum) and (b) rented at a fortnightly rate fixed in accordance with an economic rental formula comprising components for the recovery of capital costs, repairs, maintenance, insurance, administration, rates and other outgoings. Any member of Parliament who was eligible to purchase or hold the tenancy of a 
Government home did so on the same terms and conditions as were applied to other eligible persons. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The Board has completed its report which the Administrator is now required to forward to the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory during the Council's sittings which are planned to commence on the 14th November. A copy of the report will be made available to the honourable member after the report has been tabled in the Legislative Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)-(5) Thirty-five Aborigines are employed as trackers. No other Aborigines are employed in the Northern Territory Police Force but a review is at present being made of possible ways to increase opportunities for Aborigines in the Force. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is expected that details of responses to the questions included in the Community Preference Study will become available for release towards the end of September. 
 The answer to  the  honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
The Electoral Office records do not reveal any evidence of a prosecution against a candidate for exceeding the expenditure permitted by the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
Commonwealth Cars: Distance per Hour  (Question No. 6124) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of electors enrolled in each electoral division, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory as at 25th August 1972 is set out in the table below. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
L. J. Hooker Ltd and R. A. McKillop and Co. act in conjunction as honorary auctioneers, on the understanding that the Department of the Interior meets the expenses incurred by the companies. 
, (3) and (4)In 1963, theagreed upon expenses were increased from $200 to $600 per day for each residential auction and to $500 per day for each business auction. 
In 1969, the expenses were again reviewed and an amount of $900 per day agreed upon. 
The total sum paid in each of the last 10 years is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Interior are considering such a proposal but the study is still in the preliminary stages. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Burrinjuck Dam is not being used for the treatment of Canberra's sewerage effluent. The Senate Committee concluded that Canberra's sewage effluent marginally raises the level of bacterial pollution of the Murrumbidgee River but that the level remains basically acceptable at the point of re-entry to New South Wales, bearing in mind the normal uses of the water downstream to and within the Burrinjuck Dam. 
The A.C.T. authorities are aware that there is a need to improve the quality of effluent discharges and plans are well advanced for a very modern water control centre for Canberra to replace existing facilities. Allowing for detailed design, the tendering process and the construction period, this facility is expected to be operational about 1976-1977. 
The Government will examine any proposals put forward by relevant local government bodies in the Murrumbidgee Valley concerned with the problem of pollution of the Murrumbidgee River. 
pursuant to section 10 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1930-1963, I present a statement of moneys received and expended during the year ended 30th June 1972 by the Commonwealth in the administration and development of the Australian Capital Territory. 
by leave - Honourable members will recall that in answer to questions in the House last year the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  indicated that existing Government policy in relation to the provision of housing in Canberra for Ministers would be reviewed. The Government has now completed that review. The Government believes that is right that Ministers should continue to have access to accommodation in Canberra that accords with the responsibilities they have to carry out. Ministers have to spend a considerable time in Canberra whether Parliament is sitting or not and it is in the interests of the Government, of the administration, and of the country that they should be encouraged to live in Canberra and be assisted by having suitable accommodation available to them. It is also reasonable in these circumstances that Ministers should be able to bring their families to Canberra and establish their homes here, at least temporarily if they wish to do so. 
The Government has concluded that furnished or unfurnished flat or house accommodation should be made available to Ministers who wish to live in Canberra. But there are 2 new elements. Houses will be occupied by Ministers only while they remain in the Ministry and there will be no right of purchase. Ministers who occupy houses made available by this Government will be required to vacate within a reasonable time after they leave the Ministry, although if they wish they will then be given priority in renting a government flat. Finally, I would add that it may be appropriate that the whole matter of housing for Ministers should be placed on a statutory basis; the Government will be giving further attention to this aspect. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Electoral Bill presented to Parliament on 31sl March 1971 contains provisions for the repeal of those Sections requiring the submission of returns of electoral expenses. 
Various newspaper reports have appeared relating to the election budgets of the various political parties. 
Pursuant to sections 9 and 10 of the Representation Act 1905-1964 I hereby give notification of determination of the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States and also present the certificate of the Chief Electoral Officer of the number of the people of the Commonwealth and of the several States. 
by leave - I want to make just one point clear to the House following the statement of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Certain statutory periods must be observed before an electoral redistribution can be undertaken. I have asked the Chief Electoral Officer to provide me with this information. For the record I report accordingly.  His  reply stated: 
The time required to effect a redistribution depends largely on the number of electors enrolled for a State (which governs the number of Divisions and consequently the amount of work involved); the number of suggestions, objections and comments received by the Distribution Commissioners; the time taken by the Government to decide upon and recommend to the GovernorGeneral the names of the Commissioners and the time taken by Parliament to approve or disapprove the proposed redistribution. The following timetable indicates the estimated time required to effect a redistribution in a small State (numerically) - e.g., Western Australia or Tasmania. 
The information supplied sets out that the first major step is a submission to the Minister by the Chief Electoral Officer of the panel of names from which the Cabinet chooses commissioners. The estimated period for this exercise is one week. The next major step is a decision by the Cabinet and appointment of commissioners. Normally this would take 2 to 3 weeks. The third step is the publication of advertisements by commissioners in the Commonwealth Gazette under section 18a (1) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. This takes one week. The fourth step is a period for submission of suggestions. This is referred to in section 18a (1) (a). This involves a 30-day statutory period. 
The fifth step is the making available for perusal of copies of suggestions lodged with the commissioners. This is mentioned in section 18a (2). The sixth step is the period for submission of comments relating to Suggestions under section  18A(l)(b).  This involves a statutory period of 14 days. The seventh step is the consideration of suggestions and comments and the gathering of appropriate information by commissioners from available sources. The estimated period required is 4 weeks. The eighth step is the preparation and printing of maps and descriptions of boundaries. The estimated period required for this exercise is 4 weeks. The ninth major step is the distribution of maps to post offices for exhibition under section 20(a). This takes at least a week. The tenth step is the making available for perusal copies of comments lodged with commissioners. This is referred to in section 20. The eleventh step is a period for lodgment of suggestions or objections under section 21. This involves a 30-day statutory period. The twelfth step is the considerations by commissioners of objections and suggestions and this takes 2 weeks. The thirteenth step is the preparation of report and map and submission to the Minister. This takes a further 2 weeks. The fourteenth step is the tabling of the report and approval or disapproval by Parliament, which normally takes one to three weeks. In all, these requirements involve a period of between 28 and 31 weeks. 
Various people in Western Australia and Labor spokesmen have suggested that the Government has not moved to try to grant an additional seat to that State. The Chief Electoral Officer has followed every step as expeditiously as possible. We sought legal advice and found that he could not issue a certificate on preliminary figures as far back as this time last year. We have been waiting for final figures from the Commonwealth Statistician before submitting to this House the document which I submitted today - the certificate from the Chief Electoral Officer. Every effort has been made to follow the normal process. I believe that the Government has acted to satisfy the Act and the requirements of the Western Australian people, by the steps which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has announced today. I think it is very shallow and unfortunate that the Leader of the Opposition should try to capitalise on the fact that there are long statutory periods and certain procedures that must be followed in accordance with the law. 
I am sure that it will be the Government's intention to look at the case of the Australian Capital Territory in the context of a redistribution for the rest of Australia. 
The Government's proposals on urban and regional development in Australia mark a historic landmark in the direction of Australia's future development. It will be a mammoth task; it will be a great economic and social challenge to the Federal and State governments and certainly to the new authority that is to be established. Australia is the largest island continent in the world, yet the most urbanised community in the world. We have amongst our most important resources space - vast wide open spaces. This is a very valuable resource. If a person lived in some of the highly concentrated population areas of the world he would come to value this important resource that Australia has. It is the responsibility of the nation to ensure that its resources are used for the long term benefit of its people. This Government is the first Commonwealth Government to move in a practical sense to help the States in a programme to make good use of those resources. 
I have made speeches on numerous occasions both inside the House and outside it over a long period of years and I have often described the problems that Australia would have to face up to if decisive Government action at the Federal level was not taken at the right time. However, before the Government could take action on such a large scale as is envisaged in the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  It was essential that the Australian people had commenced to recognise that if our capital cities continued to grow along traditional lines the day would come when they would cease to provide a satisfactory way of life to the people living in them. This applies to the young people trying to establish their homes in these cities. As long as people can buy a block of land at reasonable prices, as long as they can go to and from work within a reasonable time and as long as the general amenities in the cities remain within reasonable reach they see no reason to look elsewhere to try to establish a home. In fact, if they live elsewhere they probably see some Very good reason for wanting to move to the cities - reasons such as better and wider employment opportunities, better educational opportunities for their children and  a  wider range of social and recreational amenities than they could find elsewhere away from this metropolitan complex. 
Of course the Government has been concerned about the decline of country areas and the associated unbalanced growth in the cities. However, people are at the heart of the matters and solutions cannot be undertaken on any large scale before people are willing to participate in new programmes. For the Government to move on  a  matter of such dynamic change before people are prepared to participate would result in certain failure. This would prejudice any future build up of the public confidence so essential for success in such  a  change in the course of development in this country. An appropriate climate of understanding had to be reached in Australia as a first step towards solutions. I think we can all sense that the necessary change of climate is now occurring. This has been contributed to by all levels of the Australian community. It has been contributed to by both sides of this Parliament, at the State level, at local government levels, in academic circles and by the business community in general. Indeed the problems are starting to compound and people are recognising this in every walk of life and in every environment. Therefore a great new programme along the lines proposed by the Minister is now, and only now, capable of success. 
Not only do Australians at last understand the need for a change of direction but also they have an example of what a new and properly planned city can offer as a way of life to its inhabitants. I refer of course to Canberra, which even a few years ago would have been unacceptable to the great majority of Australians as the kind of place in which they would want to live. The attraction of the larger cities at that time was still almost irresistible. Canberra has shown that an alternative way of life is both possible and practicable and that a small to medium sized city now has many advantages over the larger conurbations. I might mention at this stage that a great deal of credit for the success of Canberra - a success which was recently acknowledged at the United Nations Conference on Human Environment in Stockholm - is attributable to the work of  Sir John  Overall as head of the National Capital Development Commission. I join with others in congratulating him on the tremendous contribution he has made and the outstanding job he has done.  Sir John  Overall is a man of the highest international reputation in the field of new town development. He is a man who in his own right was invited to the Stockholm conference to deliver a paper on new town development. I think it is fitting that this most experienced and competent man has been appointed as  Chairman  of the new National Urban and Regional Development Authority. I believe this man has the capacity to launch this new organisation. 
It may be suggested that Canberra is  a  special case and cannot be taken as the forerunner of regional growth centres. I would not agree with this. In my view the basic attractions that Canberra has for people as a place to live can be repeated over and over again throughout Australia. People will ask: How will jobs be provided in a new growth centre? In my view a new regional centre does not have to be started by large scale industrial development. Some jobs would be created as soon as work starts on a new centre. Undoubtedly an administrative body would have to be set up to plan and develop the centre, and this would be established at the centre itself. It will involve construction corps. Homes would have to be built to accommodate these people and provide them with services and facilities, including schools, shops, banks, post offices and so on. Government units, both State and Federal, might be located in these centres. You would at once have quite a reasonable range of job opportunities - certainly enough to attract a considerable number of people faced with the alternative of struggling to get established in the metropolitan areas. 
In the future jobs will be less and less tied to large sources of raw materials. This has been the pattern of development throughout most of the world. Good transport and communication facilities will become far more important and, given these, people will be able to live in areas which offer attractions such as lower cost land, ease of movement, educational opportunities and social and recreational amenities. These things can be provided through concerted effort by government at all levels. If people are given firm assurances by governments on these matters I am convinced that they will reverse the present ugly pattern of drift to the metropolitan areas. As basic production processes become more automated more people will find their employment in servicing the community rather than in the production processes. 
All levels of Government have an important contribution to make to regional development, which will not succeed without machinery based on mutual cooperation between local government bodies and State and Federal governments. The key is their determination to carry out their undertakings, because confidence in the intentions of government at all levels is the magnet needed to attract investors, people and industry to new locations. You cannot force people out of the cities. You cannot force industry out of the cities. This would be totally unacceptable to the Australian community. What governments must do is to provide the opportunities for people to find an acceptable alternative way of life elsewhere. 
One factor not yet fully appreciated by many of those who have looked at the problem is its sheer size. On present trends, Australia's population will increase by more than 8 million people over the next 28 years and, at the present rate of development in Australia and if the present trend continues, undoubtedly most of these people will go to the 6 State capital cities and the surrounding regions. This undoubtedly will cause enormous, problems. Let us assume that it would take a total of 27 years, allowing 5 years preplanning and 22 years of actual building to. build a new town of, say, 300,000 people. If an average of one new regional centre a year was started somewhere in Australia in each of those 27 years, by the end of the century there would be one new town completed and 27 others at varying earlier stages of planning and development. In fact, they would have population sizes varying from nil to 300,000. The sum of these populations in the new towns still would amount to only a little more than 3 million people. Therefore, if Australia starts on a major new centre aiming for a population of 300,000 people each year for the next 28 years, this will still divert only 3 million people from the capitals. I think this indicates the immense problem which faces us. 
Another factor which will emerge in my judgment is that, although heavy initial investment in new centres will be required, in the longer term this will prove to be more a re-deployment of funds rather than the provision of huge additional expenditures, because undoubtedly the environmental and pollution problems and the transport and traffic problems of the growing metropolitan complexes are in themselves providing a tremendous bill to the people - the taxpayers. Overseas experience indicates that the sort of solution proposed by the Government will call for strong administrative organisation. As the Prime Minister has said, Commonwealth initiatives must be carried out in partnership 
With the States. The setting up of the Commonwealth-State ministerial committee with the Prime Minister and the State Premiers will provide an adequate facility for the sort of co-operation that is necessary between governments. 
In particular, it is pleasing to see that the parochial jealousies that have been plaguing any progress in this direction in many of our country areas is fast diminishing. Only recently, I led a deputation in Canberra representing the country mayors of New South Wales. The country mayors, who represented something like 122 local governing bodies in Australia, had resolved that the regional growth centre complex was the only practical way of overcoming the tremendous problem of urbanisation in this country. I think it is not only very important to foster the regional growth concept but also it is essential to ensure that the policies that are in force in the States to help country towns, apart from the larger provincial centres, are continued. 
In New South Wales alone, over 600 new businesses have been encouraged by the State government to set up in ISO different centres in that State. This is a fine achievement. Governments could also assist by locating suitable institutions and units of government in appropriate country towns. In addition to all this, the development of regional growth centres will almost certainly be of benefit to other towns in the region. For instance, the selection of Dubbo will be of tremendous benefit to the Macquarie region as a whole. In addition, the development of regional growth centres throughout the length and breadth of this country will give the sort of ballast for which we are looking. 
But there is a need to look to the problems of some of the smaller towns that have a viable future. As the Prime Minister said, the Commonwealth will continue to expect the States to undertake their own programmes of assisting the development of industries and the progressive development of these centres away from the metropolitan areas. So, I believe that this is a most historic decision. I believe that it will provide the impetus that is necessary to create the sort of comprehensive balanced development that this nation has needed for some considerable time. The Australian people living both in the cities and the country will appreciate the need for this action. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (a)*Members of the Legislative Council are paid the fallowing annual fees: 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962-1966 I present the ninth annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
1 thank honourable members on both sides of the House for the contributions they have made in the debate on the estimates for the Department of the Interior, i want to make some comments upon the various observations that have been made by a number of honourable members. Firstly, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  condemned the Government for referring to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works a proposal for a S-stage Commonwealth office project to house 15,000 public servants in the central Sydney area and also for referring to the Public Works Committee a proposal to build a major Commonwealth office block in Melbourne. I think it is essential to realise that in the cities of Melbourne and Sydney the Government and the community does have a requirement for the location of a great number of public servants in the central metropolitan areas. We have been paying very high rentals to developers in Sydney for office space. In fact, we have been paying well over $5 a foot. I think I should make the point very clear for the sake of the record that the rental equivalent of stage 1 of the Woolloomooloo offices, if built by the Commonwealth, would be about $3.65 a square foot per annum, which compares more than favourably with the rental now being paid for office space in the city of Sydney area and North Sydney of about $5.50-plus a square foot per annum. That is an average figure I have given. On present indications the level of rental might be expected to be about $6.50 a square foot per annum or more by the time the first stage of the Woolloomooloo offices would have been ready for occupation if the proposed construction had been approved. 
As I said a moment ago we are going to have a continuing need for the location of public servants in central city areas. The Commonwealth felt it had an obligation to try and provide the most economic facility for this purpose. Undoubtedly, unless the Commonwealth Government does proceed ultimately with the construction of its own facilities in the central Sydney area, it is at some stage going to be at the mercy of the developers in that region. The honourable member for Reid has crowed somewhat over the rejection of the proposal by the Public Works Committee. I admit that there is a case for the location of a great number of those public servants who would have been housed at Woolloomooloo in other areas of Sydney. This possibility has been studied by the Government, lt is still being considered at the present time. Indeed, we have been carrying out a survey in the Parramatta area to ascertain whether we could accommodate a greater number there in the future. 1 do not argue against the wisdom of locating a great number of public servants in certain appropriate regional centres throughout the country. I do not believe for a moment that central office staff can be put in those regional centres. But there are certainly elements of the Commonwealth Public Service that can be located in areas other than the major metropolitan regions. The State Planning Authority of New South Wales was mentioned with respect to the Public Works Committee hearing. In evidence it gave in Sydney the State Planning Authority strongly favoured the early stages of development of a Commonwealth office project. I think it is very important to bear that factor in mind. 
The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  raised a point regarding the Padbury Building. As he so rightly said, the matter he raised comes principally within the area of responsibility of my colleague the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  1 will certainly convey the points that the honourable member for Perth made to the Postmaster-General. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  referred to the use of recycled water, particularly at Tennant Creek, in a tree planting programme to help provide a windbreak for the people living in the area. He rightly said that the Administration has been studying this possibility, particularly with respect to the Alice Springs area. I think the idea has a tremendous amount of merit to it. I believe the Government should - I hope it will - spend a lot more money in the future on research into the recycling of water, particularly in arid areas. There is no doubt but that, with proper windbreaks, the living conditions of people in remote areas could be improved. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  drew attention to the rapidly increasing land prices in Canberra. He made some reference to the shortage of housing that has resulted from, in particular, the rapid increase in the population, which has risen this year by over 13,000. There is a waiting list for homes in Canberra of, I think, about 7,000 people at the present time. The Government has endeavoured to try to overcome the problem by increasing the availability of land turnoff. In spite of that, it is true to say that there was an increase of 25 per cent in land prices in the last September sales. Last year we offered 2,300 blocks. This year we plan to turn efi 3,100 blocks, which represents a substantial increase. Prices averaged out at about 

<graphic href="081131197210114_40_1.jpg"></graphic>

$3,500 for restricted blocks and $7,500 for unrestricted blocks at the last auctions. There is undoubtedly an unprecedented demand for land and housing in the Australian Capital Territory. But I do want to make the point clear that the waiting time at present for a Government house in the Australian Capital Territory of 35 months is less than it was 10 years ago. In 1961. 1962 and 1963 the waiting time was 37 months. The construction of Government homes during the last 10 years had been maintained at a rate designed to keep the waiting time under 3 years. That compares more than favourably with the waiting times for houses generally in other parts of the Commonwealth, especially when it is taken into account that the Government housing list in Canberra has been open to all comers without any means test being imposed. 
The Government has also provided greatly increased amounts of money for direct housing loans in the Australian Capital Territory through building societies and the Commissioner for Housing loan scheme. The financial allocations have risen from $6,303,000 in 1967 to $14,530,000 in 1972. In the estimates now before the Committee provision is made for an allocation of $20m.  Mr Chairman,  I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table with respect to Government rental housing in the Australian Capital Territory and a table with respect to the Government's housing programme for the Australian Capital Territory. 

<graphic href="081131197210114_40_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081131197210114_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

1972-73 Estimates- 796 houses and 104 family flats- Total cost $9,500,000 - Producing a house waiting time of 36 to 40 months (depending on changes in policy affecting sales conditions) - The supply of serviced building blocks would not permit of a greater construction programme of Government homes without lowering the supply (and increasing the price) of private residential blocks. - Estimate does not make specific provision for SO houses for compulsory transferees. 
A.C.T. NON-GOVERNMENT HOUSING 
<para pgwide="yes">Housing Quarterly' published by the Department of Housing reported (quarter ended December 1971)  that the number and value of loans approved by savings banks increased considerably and most were able to meet demand by eligible applicants. 663 loans valued at $6,900,000 were approved in 1971 compared with 470 loans valued at$4,100,000 in 1970. 
In its annual report the National Capital Development Commission made reference to the very big problem that we are facing in the Australian Capital Territory of trying to provide sufficient land at reasonable prices to those seeking land for a home. At page 30 of its annual report the NCDC stated: 
One change which appears tobe significant is that young people have moved from hostels to share flats and houses. About 44 per cent of private flats are occupied by single people alone  or sharing. This movement appears to have been stimulated by a rise in hostel tariffs and an increase in wages in late 1970 and early 1971. 
Another factor could be the steady increase in the rate of marriages in Canberra leading to a more rapid increase in the number of households. Consequently there has been an unexpected increase in the demand for residential blocks for detached houses. 
The strong downward movement of the indicator shows that, in total, blocks are passing from auction to occupation in much shorter periods than has applied, and shorter than is desirable for moderate prices. Although instances no doubt occur it is clear that witholding blocks for speculative purposes has noi been a significant factor in the general rise in prices. The major factor is continuing strong demand. 
The situation outlined illustrates the problems of providing for urban development with sufficient reserve capacity to meet unpredictable changes in development markets, while complying with need for balanced development. 
The Commission went on to indicate what actions it intends to take to try and overcome the problem. It has been a matter of some concern to me to see prices of land escalate to the degree that they have, but there is a very strong underlying demand. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory also drew attention to a question he raised some time ago with respect to the 2 auctioneers whom the Department of the Interior engages to auction blocks at the various land sales. They are L. J. Hooker Ltd and R. A. McKillop and Co. Pty Ltd. They act in conjunction as honorary auctioneers on the understanding that their expenses are met by the Department of the Interior. The agreed expenses are calculated on a rate per day basis as reviewed periodically. The payments made to the auctioneers do not relate to the value of the properties sold. Arrangements for the conduct of auctions are reviewed from time to time according to requirements. The number of auctions has increased very substantially in recent times as the turnoff of service land has grown. The Department of the Interior is currently reviewing the present system. Until recently it would not have been economic, and it still may not be, to employ our own qualified auctioneer and staff. The auctioneers presently engaged provide a staff of about 13, including a principal and an assistant auctioneer. They collect the money paid and account to the Department of the Interior for it. The fee of $900 a day paid to the auctioneers was assessed after having regard to the auctioneers quotations of their costs. The rate of expenses has been reassessed on the basis of the auctioneers time, the staff engaged in the auction hall and the preparation of accounts received. Beyond that I do not think it is fair to say that there is anything sinister about the present practice. It has been a long standing practice but the Department is currently reviewing this matter. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has also brought to the attention of the Committee a question that he has raised on a great number of occasions, namely, infringements of laws relating to postal voting. It is true, as can be seen from the representations that he has made over the years, that he has worked hard to try to have the present law amended. I have noted from the statistics at pages 1S03-S in Hansard of 28th September 1 967 that the extent of postal voting in Queensland is much higher than in other States. I am concerned that some overenthusiastic party workers of various political parties appear to have stepped outside the law in seeking postal vote applications but it is difficult to get sufficient evidence to prosecute. It is an offence to persuade or induce an elector to make an application for a postal vote. If the honourable member for Griffith or any other members have any evidence of any infringement of this law, they should refer it to the Chief Electoral Officer and appropriate action will be taken against any offenders. A Bill that I introduced into the Parliament last year, which still has not been dealt with, provides for the establishment of mobile polling pools at hospitals. This, of course to some extent will reduce the need for postal vote applications, but I grant that efforts must be made to amend the law. Having read the various speeches he has made on the issue, I think the honourable member for Griffith gives powerful enough reasons why we should take some action. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  spoke of the need for constitutional advancement in the Northern Territory. As he knows, a joint study group of elected members of the Legislative Council and various senior officials of respective Commonwealth Government departments has been formed. That study group concluded its discussions late last year and there was a meeting between 5 Ministers and 5 elected representatives of the Legislative Council on 3rd March this year. A joint Press statement was issued by  Mr Tony  Greatorex, the  President  of the Council, and myself after that meeting. The Council has since responded to the discussions that have taken place both at the ministerial level and at the joint study group level. The Government is nearing completion of its considerations, and I hope that a step will be made towards an advancement in this area in the not too distant future. 
The 1972-73 Budget reflects a continuing expansion of the activities of the Department of the Interior in the Australian Capital Territory, in the Northern Territory and in its other fields of responsibility. In the time available to me I wish to make a few remarks about the Northern Territory. Expenditure by or on behalf of the Department of the Interior in the Northern Territory is estimated at almost $I13m, an increase of about $22m or 24 per cent on expenditure in 1971-72. This dramatic increase reflects 3 main things. The first is the Government's new policies and expanded programmes for Aboriginal advancement. In this year's Budget we have allocated in excess of $24m to help advance the Aboriginal people. This is a substantial increase on last year's allocation. The other factors are the expansion of economic and general community services to cope with the rapidly growing population, and large scale new investment, particularly in the mining industry. I think these moves are due principally to the hard working and good representative that we have from the Northern Territory, who never ceases to put a very sound case for advancement in the Territory. 
Let me speak about the growth of the Territory and the Government's new measures to cater for this growth and to stimulate development. The population of the main centres of the Territory has been growing at the exceptionally high rate of about 12 per cent a year. Indeed Darwin is today the fastest growing city in Australia. The Government has approved new works valued at $94m over the last 5 years to provide serviced land, housing, elec tricity, sewerage, water supplies and other services. The 1972-73 civil works programme for the Department of the Interior includes new works valued at more than S24m for those basic services. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  made some reference to the need for rationalisation of or research in the field of transport. I fully agree, and I am sure the honourable member for the Northern Territory would agree, that the question of transport costs is one of the biggest problems facing the residents and people of central Australia. In the field of transport 2 developments of major significance for the future are the provision of S3. 4m for the commencement of the new standard gauge railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs, which is estimated to cost a total of $54m, and the allocation in the works programme of $835,000 for the sealing of a further section of the Stuart Highway south of Alice Springs. The total estimated cost of sealing the highway from Alice Springs to Erldunda is $3. 4m. 
We have seen enormous growth in mining in the Northern Territory. We have now what appears to be a uranium province of world significance in Arnhem Land in the East Alligator River area. The tourist industry in the Territory is growing at about 15 per cent per annum. The Government is at present considering various proposals for the provision of additional facilities and services for visitors, who last year numbered 1 15,000. In all areas of development the Government is giving special attention to the environmental factors in the Territory. A major environmental fact-finding study of the Alligator River area is now under way. In depth and scope this is probably the most advanced study of this kind ever undertaken in Australia. It has been financed equally by the Commonwealth Government and the mining industry. Its controlling body contains representatives of government, the mining industry and the Australian Conservation Foundation. Detailed studies are being done on the ecological as well as social and economic aspects of possible future tourist development and conservation in the Ayers Rock area. I stress that the Government is not pressing development for development's sake or simply because it may be economic. In considering development proposals the 
Government's aim is to achieve a balance between all the relevant factors, and it is paying careful attention to social and environmental aspects. I know that the honourable member for the Northern Territory has been most anxious to ensure that these aspects be taken into consideration in any development. Once again 1 thank those honourable members who have contributed to this debate and who have brought to me and my Department certain aspects relating to the estimates that the Committee is considering. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Insurance companies do not contribute towards the cost of maintaining fire brigade services in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. I am unable to provide the honourable member with information relating to the contributions made by insurance companies in each State for the upkeep of fire brigade services. 
The Department of the Interior does not maintain records of the premiums prescribed by the Fire and Accident Underwriters Association. I suggest that the honourable member direct his question to the Head Office of the Association which is located at: FAUMA House, 210 George Street, Sydney, New South Wales 2000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since its inception the NCDC has regularly advised the Minister of its decisions respecting matters of policy through special advices on specific matters, quarterly reports and annual reports. 
The advices cover all aspects of the Commission's operations. 
to (8) Frequent discussions have taken place between the several Ministers and the Commission in accordance with the Act. No recourse to section 12 (3) of the Act has been necessary. 
I am not aware of the high degree of disruption that may have occurred as a result of 'the decision made by the Commonwealth and the respective State governments to have computerised electoral rolls. Rolls for the forthcoming elections in all the States, except Tasmania, will be computerised. I would expect that on this occasion there would be fewer inaccuracies in the computerised rolls than there have been on previous occasions. In fact, I would expect the rolls to be far better than they have been in the past. This is because of the degree of checking that has been done by the Chief Electoral Officer and his staff. I am sure the honourable member would be interested to know that the check began early this year. So, far from there being more inaccuracies, I would expect there to be far fewer inaccuracies on this occasion than in the past. The supplementary rolls will be printed with the issue of the writs on 2nd November in all States excluding South Australia and Western Australia where the main rolls will be printed with the issue of the writs on 2nd November. With respect to any subsequent changes that are advised, hand changes will be made to the main rolls in the booths. Every effort has been made by the Chief Electoral Officer to ensure that there will be fewer inaccuracies on this occasion than there have been in the past. It has been a mammoth task to switch over to the computerised rolls for the coming election and I believe that the officers have done a tremendous job in completing this task for the election. 
1 have taken note of the points that were made by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope).  On a number of occasions he has raised the matter of elderly people, particularly in the Woolloomooloo area, who have been affected by any developmental programme of the Commonwealth. As a result of his representations and also representations from the State member for Bligh, I made a point of ensuring that the Chief Property Officer in New South Wales personally canvassed every citizen of the region to ascertain what sort of measures should be taken to try to assist these people in the event of development in the region. 
I want to address myself to another matter this evening and that is an allegation that was made by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  I circulated a statement on this matter today in the hope that I would be given leave to make a statement, but the indications were that leave would not be granted. So I raise this matter on the adjournment. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has questioned the basis on which 2 Canberra real estate firms are employed as auctioneers for the Gov ernment's land sales in Canberra and has alleged that there are 'very unsavoury features' about the arrangements. If commission was paid at the rate established by the Real Estate Institute, in 1971-72 an amount of the order of $600,000 would have been payable to auctioneers of leases acting on behalf of the Department of the Interior. I understand that a flat 1 per cent commission was paid for some years by the New South Wales Lands Department prior to its employing its own auctioneers. If this rate had been charged expenditure of public funds by way of commission on Canberra's land sales in 1971-72 would have amounted to around $180,000. In fact the total cost to the Commonwealth in the year under review under the present arrangement was $19,800. If this saving of public money is unsavoury to the honourable member one can only say he has a curious attitude to expenditure. 
Canberra's land auctions are by far the biggest in Australia, if not in the world. Last year some 185 business leases were offered and a bid of more than $2m was made for one of them. More than 2,300 residential leases were offered. A total amount of some $ 18.3m was paid at auction in the year. The honourable member asked how the amount of $900 a day paid to the auctioneers is made up. Two firms act as auctioneers in conjunction in view of the magnitude of the task. Each supplies an auctioneer, who is a principal of his firm, 2 senior assistants and three or four other assistants. Generally 13 or 14 people are engaged and since auctions normally carry on for a full week the normal work of each firm must be considerably disrupted. In addition the auctioneers are required to account for all moneys received at auctions and to prepare schedules giving details of purchasers and prices paid. Since the arrangement is a continuing one it was agreed that expenses should not be calculated for each auction but that a flat rate would be paid. The fact is that the Canberra land auctions have been conducted by the same auctioneers since their inception in 1924 with exceptional smoothness and efficiency. The standard achieved is a matter for commendation, not for uninformed imputations of unsavoury dealings. 
The Department of the Interior from time to time has considered recommending the setting up of its own auction staff. In view of the increased number of blocks now being offered and the greater frequency of auctions, it is again reviewing the situation to see whether the time is opportune for a change in arrangements. Honourable members will appreciate that this is a highly specialised activity which must affect the conventional concept of a career service, and it is sometimes cheaper to use an agent than to set up a continuing organisation in the Public Service. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory, however, should not lose sight of the fact that the whole operation of land auctions in Canberra is one of considerable scale. As for the honourable member's allegation that the leading director of one of the firms is the  president  of the local branch or section of the Liberal Party, let me say that this is completely untrue. The  president  of the Liberal Party in the Australian Capital Territory is not a director of one of the real estate firms in question. I would hope that the honourable member would apologise to the  president  of the Liberal Party in Canberra. 
This allegation on the eve of an election is a shocking example of political chicanery. In any event, does a man's political allegiance have anything to do with the conduct of a business? Does the honourable member believe that a member of the Australian Labor Party should not in any way have any commercial arrangement or any honorary undertaking or arrangement with the Government of the day? The allegation is a shocking and typical act of desperate mudslinging by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. Shocked by the recent Gallup polls and the rising popularity of the Government, the Australian Labor Party is resorting to the worst sort of filthy gutter-type mudslinging. The record and reputation of R. A. McKillop and Co. Pty Ltd and L. J. Hooker Ltd is beyond reproach. Surely the honourable member has no right to cast a reflection on the reputation of those companies for the sake of mean political advantage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nineteen persons were arrested by the Australian Capital Territory Police. No person was arrested by either the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation or the Commonwealth Police. 
There were 52 charges laid and 2 summonses issued against those persons arrested. 
There were 23 convictions sustained. 
Seventeen persons entered pleas of not guilty. Pleas of not guilty were tendered in the 2 summons matters. 
One person arrested was sentenced to imprisonment. A further 2 persons were later imprisoned for failure to pay fines imposed by the Court. 
In Contested cases (a) fifteen plain clothes policemen, and (b) fifteen uniformed policemen testified. 
There were (a) 75 uniformed policemen and Cb) 25 plain clothes policemen on duty for the purpose of crowd control. Additionally, there were 30 other policemen performing specific duties such as motor cycle escorts, personal motorcade duty, traffic point duty and manning observation posts or engaged in the security of buildings. 
Yes. 
The answer to the first question asked by the honourable member is yes. Ari agreement was reached at the recent Australian Agricultural Council meeting to limit the production of eggs State by State throughout Australia. The quota set for the Australian Capital Territory is 85,000 hens which will not make Canberra self-sufficient in egg production. The current number of hens in the A.C.T. is approximately 50,000, so the quota falls far short of the consumption level in the A.C.T. Interest has been shown by a large producer in New South Wales in establishing a moderate sized poultry farm in the A.C.T. I do not know whether this producer was refused an application to increase his quota in New South Wales, but I have heard that this is so. If there were to be unlimited production of eggs in the A.C.T. it would certainly defeat the spirit of the understanding, between the States that was reached at. the Australian Agricultural Council Meeting. It would be unthinkable for any egg producer to be allowed into the A.C.T. to produce an unlimited quantity of eggs and so upset the arrangement that has been worked out with the poultry industry and between the various States. The answer to the second part of the honourable member's question is that I' do know that the poultry farmers in Young are very important suppliers of eggs to the A.C.T. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) Such information as is held by the Department of the Interior relating to the honourable member's question, which pertains to the relationship between banker and client, has been obtained in confidence. It would not be appropriate to publish the nature of this information. Consideration is at present being given to the feasibility of the use of trust account interest as a possible means of developing an agent's fidelity fund. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I draw the honourable member's attention to the answer supplied by my colleague the Minister for Social Services to question No. 6190 (Hansard, 29th August 1972, page 866). 
and (4) Assistance similar to that given in the States is provided in the Northern Territory by the Director of Social Welfare after assessment of the needs and circumstances of each applicant. The costs of this assistance are met by the Commonwealth through votes of the Department of the Interior. 
Department of Civil Aviation: Regional Office in Sydney  (Question No. 6377) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The New South Wales Regional Office of the Department of Civil Aviation will be moving to a new location not actually in the central business district but in an area commonly known as up-town Sydney. 
The building is being constructed to accommodate office workers. There is no reason to expect that employees of the Department of Civil Aviation will contribute further to parking, traffic or commuter congestion in the city area than any other employees who might otherwise occupy the building. 
(a) The Department of Civil Aviation will occupy 59,800 square feet of gross office space in the low rise section of the building, (b) The rent to be paid is at the rate of $4.50 per square foot per annum, (c) The building is located at 59 Goulburn Street, midway between George and Pitt streets. 
Overcrowding at Waverton has already necessitated the relocation of one section of the Regional Office and any future staff increases would result in further overcrowding. 
Recent investigations by the Department show that suitable office accommodation of the area required is not available at Chatswood at an equivalent or lower rental. 
In examining the need to move the Department of Civil Aviation to alternative premises, it was considered that a location in the fringe area of up-town Sydney would be suitable and would lend support to the moves by various bodies to revitalise that area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A member  of  the Armed Forces who  is  enrolled  for  his  usual  place  of  living is entitled to have his name retained on the roll for that place, provided he has a fixed intention of returning to that place for the purpose' of continuing to live thereat. A member of the Armed Forces who does not qualify for enrolment  in  these terms should enrol for the address of the post at which he  is  serving, provided  such post is  within Australia. 
I shall be seeking after question time leave to make a personal explanation with respect to that particular report. I have been misrepresented. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have said in this House, and I did tell a group of people at Perenjori, that there was pot the slightest doubt that members of the Communist Party and communist elements were associated with activist groups among Aborigines fighting for land rights. I have no doubt that this is true. 
By the same token I in no way denigrate good Australians who believe in a certain course of action, but there are communists in Australia who are endeavouring to hop on every bandwagon they can in order to divide the Australian community. I am against any organisation or any political group that is hellbent on dividing the Australian community. 
The reply is yes to both questions. Section 85 of the Electoral Act provides that a person who, because of religious beliefs, is unable to attend a polling booth during certain hours may apply for a postal vote. On Wednesday, 22nd November, we will be publishing the provisions applying to those people, who wish to record a postal vote. Adequate publicity will be given to those who, because of religious beliefs, will have difficutly. in voting, as the honourable member suggests. 
There has been a lot of correspondence and discussion relative to the matter that the honourable member has raised. Under the Lands Acquisition Act the Commonwealth can dispose of land, firstly, only when lt is declared surplus. When land has been declared by a Commonwealth department to be surplus it is my Department's responsibility to ascertain whether other Commonwealth agencies or departments have a use for the land. If they have not, the normal process is for it to be offered back to the State authorities and, if they have no use for it, the land is then offered to local authorities. But in all cases we can only dispose of that land at the valuation at the time of disposal, unless it is to be set aside for recreational purposes. I am examining the matter raised by the honourable member and I will supply him with the latest information m regard to the proposition he made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) As far as can be ascertained 3 enquiries have been held pursuant to the provisions of the Enquiry Ordinance 1938 namely an inquiry into the cost of living in Canberra in 1938, an inquiry into the milk industry in the Australian Capital Territory in 1955 and an inquiry into the price of bread in the Australian Capital Territory in 1964. 
It is true that the Government provided the finance that was necessary to provide a banquet or a function for the local government representatives who came to Canberra for their conference. We make no apology for having done so because I believe that the conference that was held here by the Local Government Association was an outstanding success. I am sure that all the delegates who came to Canberra enjoyed the national capital and the Government's hospitality and are going away quite confident that this Government is not going to overlook the needs of local governments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Over the last 5 years one Member of Parliament the Honourable P. J. Nixon, has purchased a Government house in Canberra: 
Campbell, ACT. 
$31,950 
$31,950 
$1,598 

 6i per cent per annum interest repayable over 45 years 
27th August 1970. 
As explained in my statement to Parliament on 26th September 1972 the Government has concluded that rental accommodation should be made available to Ministers who wish to live in Canberra but there should be no right of purchase. The Government has decided to give attention to placing the whole matter of this form of housing on a statutory basis. 
The Honourable A. S. Peacock. 
Stuart Flats, Griffith. 
Capital costs of separate units in blocks of Government flats are not calculated. 
$12.05 weekly. 
Fortnightly tenancy. 
The Honourable R. McN. Holten. (al Northbourne Flats, Braddon. 
Capital costs of separate units in blocks of Government flats are not calculated. 
$16.30 weekly. 
Fortnightly tenancy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I am aware of the report in The Weekly Review supplement to The New York Times on Sunday 3rd September 1972. Available records indicate that there was a Controller of Prices in the Australian Capital Territory until 1955 when the position was abolished. It is not the policy of this Government to introduce price control in the Australian Capital Territory. The Ordinance has not been repealed' because of is low priority in the revision of Australian Capital Territory legislation. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (7) The promissory system of marriage is important in traditional Aboriginal society as a means of ensuring continuation of family and clan groupings and of preserving and developing group affinities through inter-marriage. The promissory system is still widely practised in many communities and any precipitate a'ction aimed at destroying it would provoke resentment from Aborigines. The official attitude in the Northern Territory is to discourage the promissory system in an unobtrusive way with the objective of reaching a stage where there is general acceptance by communities to abandoning the practice. If it is known that a girl objects to meeting a marriage obligation she is assisted to live away from home for a time to avoid pressures from her community. If necessary she is placed in the custody and care of the Director of Social Welfare. It is an offence in Territory law for any person to have carnal knowledge of a female under the statutory age. Because of the general acceptance and practice of early marriage of Aboriginal girls it is not realistic to expect enforcement of the statutory law in this regard through legal sanctions. Charges were prosecuted in 8 cases in the past 5 years arising from carnal knowledge of underage females outside tribal marriage. There is no discrimination in the law regarding liability of a father to contribute to the support of his children. It is part of the traditional custom of Aboriginal people that the clan or family group support its own members and the need for a mother to seek maintenance orders does not arise in these circumstances. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The defendant was given a sentence of 9 months hard labour, sentence to be suspended on the defendant's entering into a good behaviour bond for 2 years. 
The reasons of the Court are set out in the judgment. A copy of the judgment has been, made available to the honourable member. 
Promissory, arrangements involving young girls still exist on Bathurst Island. There is a community acceptance, however, that the marriage does not take Place normally until the girl has reached 16 years of age at least. 
See answer to Question No. 6022. 
See answer to Part (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Between 1924 and 1935 Canberra lease buyers bid a capital sum, equal to or in excess of a nominated reserve value, on which they were prepared to pay land rent at the rale of 5 per cent per annum. The sum payable at auction was the first years land rent. 
to (5) The practice applied to all business and residential leases offered under the City Area Leases Ordinance. This form of bidding was part of the original administrative system adopted for Canberra leasehold. The effects of this practice and the reasons for changing it are explained in the contemporary reports of the Parliamentary Joint Committee of Public Accounts and the Board of Review on Canberra valuations for rating purposes. 
The Parliamentary Joint Committee of Public Accounts reported in 1928 that: 
In view of the unsatisfactory situation created by the inflated prices paid for land in Canberra, it was strongly represented to the Committee in evidence that steps should be taken to have the land in the city area revalued. To this end it was recommended by the Public Service (Canberra) Welfare Committee that  a  Board of Review should be created to investigate the whole question. The Committee notes with satisfaction that the Federal Capital Commission recently appointed such a body, fmd that the Board of Review will submit its report at an early date. The necessity for a revaluation cannot be too strongly emphasised, for it is quite clear that some investors, particularly at the last sale, displayed more enthusiasm and sentiment than ordinary business prudence, paying prices for land which, in the opinion of the Committee, were far in excess of its true, value. 
The Committee also notes with pleasure the announcement of the Federal Capital Commission that it has in contemplation legislation  in  the form of an ordinance which will provide for a more satisfactory and more equitable system of disposing of land than that which has obtained in the past. In this connexion the Committee considers that, if the policy of sale by auction is to continue, any legislation in contemplation should provide that the fixation of upset prices should be carried out on a definite and sound basis; that the upset prices, not the prices realised, should form the basis of ground rental and rates; and that, where land is sold at a price in excess of the upset price, the excess or premium shall be. paid in cash by the successful bidder. By this means speculation would be discouraged and. the payment of rentals and rates on fictitious values avoided'. 
In the same year the Board of Review on Canberra valuations for rating purposes stated: "We consider the prices realised at the last sale in 1927 were in many instances unsound, and that to ensure contracts made being carried out (as forfeited lands are prejudicial to future offerings) suggest that since an upset price is announced, prices paid above the upset should be, by way of premiums ' iri  cash - or terms might be allowed of say one-third cash, balance one and 2 years at 5 per cent.. 
If this were done speculation would be reduced to a minimum and we assume that the Commission would prefer a sale which meant the erection of a building, to one at perhaps 50 per cent higher price which was entered into in the hope of being turned over at a profit. In 1935 the system was changed so that any amount bid above the nominated reserve valu« would be payable in cash. 
 The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
to (5) The infant mortality rate in certain of the Aboriginal communities in the 'Centre' of the Territory in 1971 was of the order referred to in the question. The base figures of actual I've births and infant deaths on which the mortality ratio is calculated are however very small. Isolated examples for particular communities based on a fictional figure of 1,000 live births are a misleading and unreliable way of expressing the problems of infant health particularly when the communities include groups living on remote pastoral properties where the natural environment and social hygiene standards are complicating factors. 
Many of the people in these communities are amongst the most primitive groups in the wot Id. They adhere strongly to a social system in which early marriage of young girls and a high hil th rate are normal. There is a general reluctance tor women to seek the care provided by facilities on missions and settlements. Frequently there is pressure on mothers from the older men not to seek medical help for sick children but to rely on traditional methods for treating illness. The high infant mortality rate has been a matter for concern for some years and a study involving the Australian National University and the University of Adelaide in examining the social and psychological reasons which might be associated with infant morbidity in particular areas has been completed and a report is being prepared. 
The inquiry into medical and hospital services of the Northern Territory initiated by the Legislative Council for the Territory has been completed and the report of the Board of Inquiry tabled in the Legislative Council. One of the specific terms of reference of the Board of Inquiry concerned medical services for the Aboriginal people of the Territory. The principal terms of reference were directed to the general medical and hospital services available to the community generally. The Commonwealth met all costs of the Board to enable it to hear submissions from a representative range of organisations and persons throughout the Northern Territory. 
I wish to  speak tonight on the effects of revaluation on the wealth producing industries of this country. Measures have been taken by the Whitlam Government to reallocate resources in the economy by 2 revaluations, the first unilaterally against all currencies last December by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  without reference to Cabinet, and the second against the United States dollar by not following the United States devaluation. These actions will have far-reaching and detrimental effects upon the economy as a whole. The full impact of these double barrelled revaluations upward of the Australian currency will not be felt fully in the rural sector until the world supply situation for rural exports moves closer to world demand. 
There is a shortage of wool in the world at the moment due to the long period of low prices and alternative land usage for grain crops, meat production and, of course, a dramatic change in fashion trends. The world production of wheat, coarse grains, and meat is down largely due. to the unusually bad seasons in most of the agricultural countries, especially the Soviet Union and China. World trade in wheat, for instance, is at an all time high, mainly because Russia has had to import large quantities of wheat. China has been a big importer of wheat from both Canada and Australia. World wheat prices have reached record levels but, when supply comes closer to demand, when better seasonal conditions obtain throughout the world, then we will feel the full blast of these decisions on the economy. At today's exchange rate parities our customers throughout the world can buy Canadian wheat or nickel at about 18 per cent cheaper than the Australian products and United States wheat can be bought at about 18 per cent cheaper than the same level as it could be prior to the December 1972 decision. South African wool, in exchange rate terms, is now 26 per cent cheaper to customers than it was before the August 1971 international currency realignment. What an incredible disadvantage this is to our rural industries after 7 years of difficult seasons, low world prices and international marketing difficulties. More and more evidence is accumulating to demonstrate the cost to Australia's export industries of the recent currency changes. 
The most recent appreciation against the United States dollar will cost the mining industry of this country$1 43m annually in gross terms. When one adds the $10Om annual loss due to the December upward revaluation we have a total loss of $243m per year for the Australian mining industry. It is a sad fact that the value of Australian iron ore contracts in the Pilbara have been reduced by $1 12m by these 2 decisions.  Mr D.  E. Taplin, the  President  of the Export Division of the Chamber of Manufactures of New South Wales, has expressed the concern of exporters of manufactured goods. On 16th February  Mr Taplin  said: 
Australia's international monetary and trading policies are becoming curiouser and curiouser. Taken in conjunction With the effective revaluation of 6.3 per cent in 1971 and the more recent unilateral revaluation of 7.05 per cent in December 1972, Australian exporters are now faced with the fact that in the worst circumstances their products must be 23.5 per cent more expensive in some overseas markets than similar products exported by the United States. 
The situation in our greatest export earner, the rural industries, is little better. The  Chairman  of the Wheat Board has already announced that wheat growers face a loss of §US18.5m on outstanding contracts. The Government decision will cost the cotton industry $5m for the full year. The dairy industry also faces severe losses since contracts with South East Asian countries for dairy products were written in United States dollars. These are worth $27m and their value is now reduced by $3m. There is a $20m a year trade with the United States in cheese and other dairy products. Unless these contracts can be rewritten, which is unlikely in a highly competitive market, the loss to the Australian dairy farmers could be $2. 2m a year. 
The most recent figures for exports of meat to the United States indicate a loss of $45m to the meat industry. There will be a loss of $4m on the export of fish, $4m on the export of sugar, SI. 5m on the export of wool, and of course the fruit and canning industries face almost annihilation from the export markets. On the figures I have cited, alone, the loss to the Australian fanners from the so called sit pat decision amounts to $79m. These figures do not give a complete picture because other industries, such as the oil seeds industry and the coarse grains industry, are highly dependent upon the export market and will suffer greatly as a result of this revaluation. When the loss of $79m suffered by the few industries that I have mentioned is added to the loss of between $150m and $200m as a result of the December decision, we see that the socialist Government in its unilateral and gratuitous decision has dealt a staggering blow to those industries. We are told that those rural industries will receive adjustment assistance. This is meaningless except in the case of fruitgrowers. This promise is a pitiful and deceitful attempt to cover up the socialists' deliberate policy of downgrading the importance of the wealth-producing industries of this nation. 
What is even worse is the deliberate plan to transfer resources from the wealth-producing sector of the economy to other sectors dearer to Labor's heart. In effect it represents a reallocation of resources from the less populated and more export orientated States and the Northern Territory to the cities of Sydney and Melbourne. The export surpluses from Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory have been contributing to the import surpluses of New South Wales and Victoria. 
Let us examine the trade distribution of the States in 1971-72. In Australian dollars f.o.b., New South Wales imports exceeded exports by S560m; Victoria's imports exceeded its exports by $29 lm; Queensland's exports exceeded imports by $71 lm; the amount for Western Australia is $664m; South Australia's amount was $204m; Tasmania's was $139m and the Northern Territory's was $23m. This policy, of course, must slow down our national growth rate because the greatest growth potential in Australia is in the smaller States. 
I believe that the decision taken by this Government will have very serious and detrimental consequences to the nation and will ultimately lead to a great degree of unemployment. This is a decision aimed right at the heart of the rural export industries and the export industries of Australia. Unless the wealth-producing industries are capable of surviving profitably, the essential social welfare policies that have been announced by this Government - the grand dream of the Labor Party for this grand society - will go by the board because the finances to support the objective will not be available. If the people of Australia are put out of work because the industries in which they work have suffered and cannot compete with their competitors overseas, the Government will have to answer to the Australian people for this decision. I believe that by the end of this year the full impact of these 2 crazy decisions, making the Australian dollar the most overrated currency in the world, will make its presence felt in this community. 
It gives me also pleasure to support the Commonwealth Electoral Bill and the associated Bills which provide for the lowering of the franchise age to 18 years for Federal elections. The inference in the second reading speech of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  was that the former Government was opposed to the lowering of the franchise age. That is not true. The former Government at no time expressed itself as being opposed to the provision of voting rights for the 18, 19 and 20-year-olds. After the relevant High Court judgment I made a Press release on behalf of the former Government in which I said: 
I want to make it clear that the Government is not averse to the lowering of the franchise age. 
Indeed, it had not taken a decision on the matter for reasons which I intend to relate. In the debate, on the Electoral Bill, which was introduced by the then Leader of the Opposition, now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  on 11th May last year I said: 
The Government has not at any time taken issue on or implied opposition to the principle of a vote for the 18-year-olds. 
I went on to say: 
Indeed it might well be a proposal that has support from a great number of members on both sides of the House. 
The issue at that time was whether it was necessary or practical to support the passage of a Bill at a time when the 27th Parliament was drawing to a close, leaving insufficient time to handle the changes comfortably. The former Government had established a committee to examine the age of legal responsibility and associated matters, but at that time it had not completed its consideration of that report. Although the franchise age issue could have been dealt with separately, a variety of other legal issues surrounding the rights of 18, 19 and 20-year-olds needed the closest scrutiny. 
The report on the issues that I have mentioned was completed; so the socialist Government has inherited the value of an indepth research into these issues. I do not begrudge the Government its great inheritance but I know that it is a very lucky government indeed to have so much research behind it on these issues. The Government has been enabled to move swiftly at this point of time against a background of invaluable research and endeavour. Then there was the need to overcome a number of technical problems before we felt that we could move to lower the franchise age to enable 18, 19 and 20- year-olds to vote in the last House of Representatives elections. 
One of the most important considerations was to maintain a uniform franchise for all State and Commonwealth elections. There was a need to reach uniformity to avoid confusion and misunderstanding. There was a need to reach agreement with the States, especially in regard to the joint roll States, namely, New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia. The need for a uniform timing of franchise legislation was essential. Until 30tb June last year only one State, namely, Western Australia, had introduced 18-year-old franchise legislation. I think it did so in 1970. The first Bill to lower the franchise age in Western Australia was introduced by a Liberal-Country Party Gov ernment. At that time Western Australia was the only State which had proclaimed such legislation. South Australia followed Western Australia and legislation was enacted and proclaimed, 1 think on 30th June last year. 
The other States had approved of the franchise in principle, either at Cabinet level or in legislation, but had not proclaimed the legislation. The State governments were at varying stages of decision on this matter. In his second reading speech the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  gave a list which indicated the progress that has been made to date within the various States of the Commonwealth. I commend the Minister for having reached agreement with the States so soon after having assumed his portfolio, thereby achieving in practice the uniformity to which 1 have referred. 
When consideration was given to this matter last year the Government was aware of the great confusion that would have occurred unless uniformity was achieved. This applied especially in cases where persons moved from State to State. Under the long-standing arrangements, with joint roll States, the submission of a single electoral claim by a qualified person would achieve simultaneous enrolment on the joint roll which is used for both Commonwealth and State purposes. This arrangement has many public advantages and offers considerable economies.- But it was essential that any change in age qualification for enrolment and voting should be effected concurrently by the Commonwealth and the joint roll States. 
The most elementary consideration in any franchise system is that it should be clear and fair and that the circumstances in which the right to vote is to be exercised should be uniform. Franchise uniformity is, I believe, a most essential objective to avoid confusion State by State or between the Commonwealth and the States. I submit that if unilateral action had been taken by the Commonwealth considerable disruption among the joint roll States would have resulted. For the purposes of the last election it would have necessitated 3 special form or an enrolment claim card with a distinguishing mark on the electoral roll against the name of 18, 19 and 20-year- olds made eligible by this unilateral action of the Australian Government. As it was, unilateral action was taken by one joint roil State, namely, South Australia. 
So it was against the background of this consideration and other considerations that the former Government felt that it was not prudent to rush franchise entitlements to the 18, 19 and 20-year-olds last year. Indeed, on 8th March last year, when the then Prime Minister was asked a question in this House on the matter, he told the Parliament that the law would not be changed in time to give 18- year-olds a vote in the then forthcoming elections. I doubt whether anyone, other than a few eager politicians, lost any sleep over that decision. Perhaps those few immensely egotistical politicians who believe they have some great attraction for young people could have suffered some anxiety as a result of that decision. But I think it was a good decision not to try to rush and steamroll the legislation through, thereby causing an air of confusion in some of the joint roll States. 1 believe that one matter mentioned by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  was quite sound. I refer to his remark that there has not been any really emotional demand by the great body of the 18, 19 and 20-year-olds to have a vote. Such a demand has not been evident to me and I think the truth of the honourable member's remark was proved to some extent as a result of the legislation that was introduced in South Australia. In spite of a very intensive education and publicity campaign encouraging young people to enrol, I understand that approximately 16,000. out of the 68,000 who were eligible actually enrolled. I think that to some extent this indicates that only a small percentage of our young people seek this entitlement at this stage. 
The point of difference between this legislation and that of South Australia is that in South Australia the 18, 19 and 20-year-olds are free to enrol if they so desire; it is not compulsory for them to do so. Once having enrolled, of course, it is compulsory for them to vote. While I was the Minister for the Interior a number of parents made representations to me as Minister and also as the member for Gwydir, objecting very strongly to young people being forced to vote, in other words, being forced into a position where they would have to make political decisions as such. They feared that the young folk could be exploited by political organisers. But I am inclined to believe that with voluntary enrolment an even greater temptation exists to those who would want to marshall the sup port of youth than there would be if enrolment were compulsory. Now that the privilege has been conferred on this age group it is up to these young people to accept their full responsibilities. This is an historic occasion. I know that the Minister for Services and Property - who is father of the House and proud to be so - must be proud that he has the great privilege of introducing the legislation. This legislation was inevitable because this has been the trend throughout the world. Yes, it will introduce politics into our high schools. This is inevitable. 
I hope that the unscrupulous political organisers to whom I alluded a moment ago will not feed their lust for power by insidiously campaigning among our young people. They may get away with it for a while, but not for long. I have a lot of faith and confidence in the sincerity and perception of our young people. I am sure they will not allow themselves to be used by one Party or another for that Party's specific purpose. It is essential, however, for parents and children alike to be aware of the possibility of such insidious attempts developing inside our high schools in an attempt to mobilise young people for political purposes. Undoubtedly the 18, 19 and 20-year-olds will have a responsibility to inform themselves of political affairs and Party policies. I think this will apply also to 16 and 17-year-olds because people do not suddenly become informed and capable of voting on their 18th birthday, unless they have been interested in the subject for probably 2 years prior to reaching voting age. 
In effect, not only are we giving 700,000 young people the privilege of franchise, but also we are giving them an enormous responsibility since most of the decisions made by any government of the day will have far reaching effects upon the future lives of our youth. It is right that they should participate in the political thought and activity of their nation. It is right that they should participate in choosing the Government which they think is best for their long term future and for the long term future of their country. 
I have every confidence in the well informed idealistic youth of Australia. I believe that their full blooded participation in the political life of this country will make it a better place. Whilst there has been no obvious clamour amongst the young, or for that matter among the majority of parents of the 18, 19 and 20-year-olds, for this privilege, it was inevitable that the voting age should be lowered. I support the Bill and compliment the Minister for having introduced it so soon in the life of this Parliament. 
I direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minster. Will the Government only apply its Aboriginal land rights policies to the Aborigines living in the Northern Territory, since the commission that has been set up has been instructed to consider a land rights policy with respect to the Northern Territory? Is he aware that the commission has excluded Jervis Bay, the Australian Capital Territory generally and the States? Do we assume from his answer that the Government will apply the land rights policy not only to the Northern Territory but to all other Territories and the States, including the city of Sydney where Aborigines are living in deplorable circumstances? 
1 rise to support this Bill. In passing I want to draw attention to some of the problems of the partAboriginal people living in my electorate and then to deal with some of the philosophies surrounding Aboriginal advancement. The Gwydir electorate has a relatively high population of part Aborigines but very few full bloods. There is not the slightest doubt that the majority of Aborignes are living at a standard well below that of the average European Australian, but many of the. Aborigines or part Aborigines who are living in my electorate have good jobs, are Jiving with dignity and are highly respected citizens in the electorate. For too long their great social and economic problems have been ignored. It is fair to say that in New South Wales since  1965  greater efforts than ever before have been made by the present Liberal-Country Party Government to advance the Aborigines. Assistance from the Commonwealth Government has been filtering through to help the State, handle a legacy of neglect by past generations and past governments. I do not blame any particular political party, government, individual or group of individuals for this legacy. Until recent years there was a lack of social conscience so far as Aborigines were concerned. 
As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  knows, there is a problem at Wee Waa among Aborigines who are mostly itinerant workers on the cotton fields. Since, the cotton industry provides itinerant workers with employment which lasts for only a short period each year, there is a special problem in respect of adequate housing, health and hygiene among the itinerant workers. Over the past  3  or  4  years the cotton industry has required an increasing number of itinerant workers for chipping, and the accommodation problem came to a head this year. I have, made representations both to the State Minister for Youth and Community Services and to my friend and colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for help in providing more adequate facilities for these people. I take the opportunity to thank the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for his cooperative and sympathetic attitude to this very difficult problem. The cotton growers have been subjected to a lot of unfair criticism, but they are conscious of the problem. I have had discussions with them and with other people in the district. They are doing their best to improve conditions generally. 
Both the New South Wales and Commonwealth governments have moved to help to improve the working and living conditions of the itinerant workers, most of whom are Aborigines. Approximately  $100,000  has been granted already to improve the camping areas and health facilities. I understand that the people concerned do not want expensive housing. They do not want to have to pay high rents because the job opportunities last for only a short time each year. They want decent shelter, water and power while they are employed for a short time. In Wee Waa the local people met the Aboriginal spokesmen and formed an Aboriginal Advancement Committee late last year. The Committee is representative of all sections of the community, including well known cotton growers who want to see the Aborigines helped and given decent conditions which will allow them to live with at least some sense of dignity and to work under conditions that are acceptable to them. No government agency can do as much, in a real sense, as local community organisations working at the grass roots of the local problem. These organisations require the support, co-operation and financial assistance of the Commonwealth Government. I am delighted that the Commonwealth Government, through the Minister, has seen fit to support them. 
Moree, my home town, has an acute housing problem for the local Aborigines. After the February  1971  flood about  20  families were moved from the low lying areas surrounding Moree to what is called the Mehi Crescent and were provided with emergency accommodation in caravans, and  16  of those  20  caravans are still providing shelter for approximately  110  Aborigines - more than  30  adults and  80  children. These people have been living under disgraceful conditions, awaiting the provision of housing. The situation has caused the New South Wales Government and those of us who know the conditions considerable concern. I have made representations to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and he has assisted the New South Wales Government in making available funds to provide  17  new houses for these people in this year's program. Five are to be built by the New South Wales Housing Commission and  12  are to be purchased by the Department of Youth and Community Services. Six houses are currently being acquired and are with the Crown Solicitor for settlement. The Other 6 are the subject of negotiations between the Valuer-General and the owners. 
The problem does not end there. More and more funds will be required to provide an increasing population of Aborigines and part Aborigines in this area with adequate housing on an annual basis and to provide more health facilities, adequate pre-school facilities and so on. There has been a rapid integration of the Aboriginal population into the Moree community in the past, few years. However, a number of families want homes built in their old settlement areas. I believe that they should be given a choice as to whether they want to integrate into the town community. I pay a tribute to the Sisters of Charity at the Pope Pius Mission who, for the past few years, have been providing pre-schooling for more than 100 children and a health clinic for those children. The doctors in the town are providing honorary services to the children. 
Moree has an active community based Aboriginal Advancement Association which is keeping in close contact with the people and the problems that exist there. There is a great desire on the part of the community to do something about the problem. The benefit that has been flowing to the children who have been attending the Pope Pius Mission has become evident in the infant and primary schools during the past 2 or 3 years. The children have a far better chance of completing their high school education than wouk have been the case, say, 10 years ago. Therefore they will have a better chance of securing better jobs, earning higher wages and living in better conditions than those in which their fathers and mothers lived. 1 could mention some of the other problems at the various centres in the electorate, but 1 will discuss them privately with the Minister in the near future. 
I turn now to the general problems facing our community and the philosophical approach to meeting the problems in the broad sense. It is not surprising that so many people are concerned about the enormous social problems facing Aborigines and part Aborigines. To some extent, the Aboriginal case is confused by State and Federal jurisdictions, by political pressures, by differing ideological approaches and by guilt and emotional reactions arising from the knowledge that the Aboriginal was the original inhabitant of tin's continent. The Gove judgment, which did not accept Aboriginal sovereignty over the Gove Peninsula, has given rise to land rights claims based on moral justice. Since the Gove case there has been a campaign to grant land to Aboriginal groups based on traditional association with the land. There are strong demands from militant groups of Aborigines and their supporters for financial compensation amounting to $6 billion and a percentage of the gross national product per annum to compensate their race for occupancy of land which they claim once belonged to their ancestors and which is now owned by white Australians. This claim, of course, goes against the Blackburn judgment which held that all title to land in Australia must be based on a system of Crown grants. Unfortunately, the comparative developments of the Australian of European descent since settlement and of the Australian Aborigine have so widely differed that the ugly contrast should shake our conscience. The Australian of European descent has continued to advance in both the sociological sense and the economic sense while the Aborigine has been left behind somewhat shattered, demoralised and in a sense dispossessed. 
For too long we have in our development and progress ignored the problems facing the Aborigine. The fact that he has remained as a fringe dweller, dwelling on the fringe of our society in both an economic and a social sense until recent times is proof of this. The events of history cannot be reversed. No matter how strongly one may work for the Aboriginal cause, one cannot ignore the fact that the Aborigines cannot be isolated from the total Australian community. They must live within the Australian society and according to the laws of the land while at the same time practising their own religious, cultural and traditional beliefs if they so desire. They can and should be allowed to choose the pace at which they become part of the total Australian society. 
However, this hypothesis raises 2 fundamental questions, the first being: Should there be separate development of the Aborigine based on race rather than on need? The second question is: Should there be one law for the Australian Aboriginal and another for other Australians? The 2 questions have been the cause of some debate and give rise to some uncertainty as to what policies we should pursue in order to advance the Aboriginal cause. Indeed, the Woodward Commission will face these fundamental questions when finally determining a recommendation to the Government. While we should ensure that the Aborigine has the choice to preserve his culture and traditions and the choice of remaining within his own society or moving out from it, I do not support the concept of long-term separate development with one law and code for the Australian Aboriginal and another for other Australians. 1 do not want to see our country divided in 2. 
For too long, the complex problems of the Aboriginal people living in a European society have not been fully appreciated or understood. For too long some anthropologists and academics have been inclined to think of them as a source of curiosity and academic study rather than appreciating the real need to advance the people socially so that they can take their rightful place within the Australian society, if they so desire. As a recognition of the Aboriginal affinity with land the then Prime Minister announced in January last year that the Government would spend $13m over the next 5 years in purchasing land outside the reserves for Aboriginal groups throughout Australia. 
In the Northern Territory there are approximately 95,000 square miles of reserves sei aside for the purpose of Aborigines. That comprises one-fifth of the Northern Territory. Over 100 leases were approved while 1 was Minister for the Interior - leases ranging from pastoral leases to special purposes leases to housing purposes leases. The pastoral leases included Roper River, Bulum and Daly River, a total of 6,000 square miles. I understand that this Government has frozen a considerable number of those leases that I had approved but which had not been finally granted. The former Government tailored a special purpose lease designed to suit the diverse needs of an Aboriginal community to meet their commercial, recreational and ceremonial requirements on reserves in the Northern Territory. There is no earthly use saying that the Aborigines in the Northern Territory did not accept the principle of the leasehold tenure. The fact that they themselves made an application for these leases indicated clearly enough that they were happy to accept land under the same laws and codes that applied to the Australian people generally. What was more important was that on land boards that determined the applications for those leases the Government appointed 2 Aborigines out of the 5 board members so that the Aborigines themselves were making a decision and taking part in the decision itself. 
The Government has now established the Woodward Commiission to inquire into land rights of Aborigines in the Northern Territory. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said yesterday, the policy when finally determined will be made the basis of Commonwealth actions in the States. So, a whole new policy of land tenure is in the offing. I agree with the Prime Minister that if the Government introduces new measures or new tenures or titles for the Aborigines in the Northern Territory this principle must also be applied to the States. There is no justice at all in making one law for the Northern Territory Aborigines and another for dispossessed Aborigines in the States. Indeed, the Aborigines or part Aborigines, many of whom live in deplorable circumstances in Sydney and in other capital cities have less land available to them than those in the Northern Territory. For instance, in New South Wales there are only 20 square miles of reserves whereas in the Northern Territory there are 95,000 square miles where the Aborigines have the right to roam, to hunt and to forage over the total area. 
I agree with the logic that if a new and special land title is to be formulated to suit the Northern Territory Aborigine on traditional grounds, the same policy must apply in the States. However I wish to conclude by drawing attention to 2 sentences the Prime Minister used yesterday when replying to a question I directed to him. I shall quote the 2 significant phrases from his answer. He said:   . . non-alienable non-transferable rights vested in the Aborigines in respect of the land which they have traditionally occupied. 
His second phrase was:   . . the Commonwealth will exercise its constitutional powers if need be by way of acquisition of these Aboriginal reserves and other relevant lands to which the Aborigines can reasonably claim title. 
These statements raise several questions. How does one define an Aborigine? Do part Aborigines have equal claim to land on traditional grounds? How does a part Aborigine establish his claim to traditional land ownership? If the land is non-transferable under a proposed new title, does this mean that a full blood or a part Aborigine, once having obtained that land outside the reserve has no power to sell his land? 
If the land has no sale value, what security in terms of capital value has he or his community? Such a title virtually renders his land valueless in a society where the Aboriginal is becoming increasingly involved in a cash economy. I believe that these questions need to be answered and I hope the Woodward Commission will take them into account. I thank the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for his co-operation and I look forward to working with him in the future. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr FitzPatrick)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will the Government establish a housing authority in the Australian Capital Territory on the lines of the decision of the previous Government; if so, when. 
If not, will he indicate whether a housing authority will be established in the Australian Capital Territory on other lines. 
If a housing authority is not to be established, what is the reason. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
What is the expected population growth rate In the Australian Capital Territory in 1973. 
How many blocks of landwill be available for purchase in 1973. 
How many, of these blocks will be available for (a) flats, (b) town houses and (c) detached housing. 
How many new Government houses will be built in 1973. 
Approximately how many people will these new dwellings accommodate. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to sell Government homes to tenants in the Australian Capital Territory without restriction. 
How many houses are available in the Australian Capital Territory to meet the needs of compulsory transferees and low income families. 

 - Mr Speaker, my Leader the honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  and other speakers on the Opposition side, including the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who have spoken today, have already presented well documented arguments that weigh heavily against the passage of this Bill. It is not my intention to go over old ground or to join issue with the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  or, for that matter, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who is at the table and who characteristically makes colourful but fantastic propositions - for instance, the claim that the present Commonwealth Electoral Act, in providing a 20 per cent tolerance above or below the quota for each electorate, ensures that the rural members of this Parliament, regardless of their political affiliations, represent trees, haystacks and cows rather than people. 
I intend to devote my time to focusing the debate on 4 central questions: Firstly, does this legislation achieve the principle of one vote one value? Secondly, is it possible to achieve one vote one value as a principle in a practical sense? Thirdly, is the 10 per cent tolerance prescribed in the Bill a sufficient margin to enable the commissioners to adjust boundaries in future redistributions? Fourthly, is it fair to people living in remote areas to ignore such considerations as area and remoteness when drawing electoral boundaries? But before answering those specific questions I want to refer briefly to the policy statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on electoral redistributions which was made on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. During the Prime Minister's spectacular political assault on the western suburbs of Sydney when he came by barge last year, he released the following statement: 
A federal Labor government will distribute electorates as the Constitution intended and as the United States Supreme Court has insisted that the corresponding provisions of the United States Constitution be carried out. The principle is that there should be equal representation for equal numbers of people. . . . 
Thus Labor will ensure that there are 2 more Federal electorates in this area at the next elections for the House of Representatives (i.e. the Western Region of Sydney). 
Section 24 of the Constitution provides in part: The number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the respective numbers of their people, and shall, until the Parliament otherwise provides, be determined, whenever necessary, in the following manner: 
Which is prescribed. 
The Prime Minister said, in effect, 3 things on that occasion: Firstly, that the present system was ultra vires the Constitution; secondly, that he was going to engineer a new formula to give western Sydney 2 new electorates, therefore removing from the rest of New South Wales 2 rural electorates; and, thirdly, that he was pre-empting any decision that future electoral distribution commissioners might make in accordance with section 24 of the Constitution. Section 10 of the Electoral Act determines the number of members to be chosen in the several States. It specifies, in effect, that the representations shall be in relation to the numbers of people; that is, the total population of the States including children, migrants and - since 1967  -  Aborigines. So, in answer to the statement that the principle is that there should be equal representation for equal numbers of people, the facts are that taking a State as  a  whole in accordance with the Constitution there is equal representation for equal numbers of people. 
The Labor Party has also said that the representation shall be equal, electorate by electorate. This, of course, is part of the one vote one value philosphy and calls into question the Commonwealth Electoral Act of 1902 which at that time prescribed the tolerance of 20 per cent above or below the quota for each electorate. The ALP policy also stated that redistributions would be based on population rather than electors enrolled. The whole approach of the Labor Party to electoral redistribution has been ill-considered and is summed up in the words of the Minister for Services and Property in his second reading speech, when he said: 
Although the principle should be to base representation on numbers of people and not on numbers of electors there are practical problems in the way. 
What an admission! We all remember this new and curious policy being expressed by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Services and Property last year. The Prime Minister really got carried away with this novel notion and it became enshrined in the ALP policy, yet it is not feasible. Thus, on assuming office the practical facts of life have thrown a new light on a cunning concept that had on it all the earmarks of a gerrymander. I know that the honourable gentleman will be going to Peking later this year. He will probably study the reform of the electoral system in Peking. I do not think he will learn anything from Peking. He might be able to teach Mao Tse-tung a thing or two, when one looks at the extent of the reforms that he is envisaging. 
The Minister has had to concede that, because of population movements and the delay between the taking of a census and the publication of the results, it is just not practical to implement this portion of Labor's illconceived policy. Yet I suppose Labor claims that it has a mandate for it. The Minister has had to eat humble pie by admitting that the only available figures would be those of the last census - now 2 years out of date. I am also sure that the best and soundest advice to the Government would have been not to alter the 20 per cent tolerance provision, also because of the practical problems it would create for the distribution commissioners. 
Let me deal with the first question 1 posed - that is, does this Bill achieve one vote one value. The Government knows, even if the honourable member for Holt does not, that it is just not possible in the terms of this Bill and that it is just a prank. Whatever tol erance is measured in the terms of this Bill, there are powerful constitutional reasons why the one vote one value concept just does not apply. I illustrate this point simply by drawing attention to Tasmania, with a population of 390,000 as at 30th June 1971, electing 10 senators, whereas New South Wales, with a population of 4.6 million people, elects 10 senators. Tasmania with 390,000 people elected 5 members to this House. New South Wales has 45 members in this House. Let us examine the number of people in each electorate. Tasmania has a quota of 43,902 electors per division. New South Wales an average of 57,386 electors per division. Therefore, a Tasmanian member represents 43,902 electors and a New South Wales member represents, on average, 57,386 electors. So where is this one vote one value concept? It does not exist in this Bill and it does not exist in practice in any country in the world. If the Government really wants one vote one value why does not it have a referendum to ask the people to reduce the number of electorates in Tasmania so that the number of electors in each electorate in Tasmania will equal those of the mainland States? Why does the Government tolerate a system that allows Tasmania to have the same number of senators as New South Wales? 
This legislation alters the degree of tolerance from 20 per cent to 10 per cent, but it does not achieve one vote one value. People are asked to believe that to perpetuate a system whereby there is a 20 per cent tolerance from the average is to gerrymander the electorates in favour of the rural people. Indeed, the Government goes so far as to say that this is in favour of the Australian Country Party. What utter rot. There are 45 rural seats. The Country Party holds 20, the Labor Party holds 15 and the Liberal Party holds 10. So the existing situation is not to the benefit of the Country Party but to all rural people represented by all major parties. 
We hear the same old allegations and assertions against the Country Party. We hear the same old interpretations that the Commonwealth Electoral Act favours the Country Party and violates the sacred principle of one vote one value. If the 20 per cent tolerance provided under the present Act - indeed since federation - violates a principle, then surely no-one will say that a 10 per cent tolerance does not violate the same principle of one vote one value. 
In his second leading speech - a manifesto stuffed with political accusations and innuendoes - the Minister in characteristic style gave the Country Party and the rural people, a cow kick to divert attention from his real objective of horning the Liberal Party out of marginal city seats. Of course, this is the sinister motive of this Bill. The political flavour of the Minister's speech leaves no doubt of this in my mind. All this was in the guise of one vote one value. This scheme is not designed simply to eliminate rural seats; it is also to provide a new formula acceptable to the Australian Labor Party to enable the boundaries of marginal electorates to be moved here and there to the advantage of the ALP. This is a cunning plot and a frightening prospect to those of us who do not want a socialist government in power ad infinitum. 
The Bill is a smokescreen fired by the catchcry - the emotional catchcry - of the elusive principle of 'one vote one value'. The Bill does not achieve that objective, and the Government does not care 2 hoots. While ever Tasmania is in its privileged position vis-a-vis New South Wales, while ever the population does not remain static, there is no point in debating the issue of one vote one value. 
Not a one. The only way to achieve one. vote one value would be to have a national redistribution of electoral boundaries a day after the census is taken and have an election held the next day. This, of course, is impossible. So let us dispose once and for all of this nonsense and humbug that this Bill sets out to achieve one vote one value. 
I turn now to the second question which I posed, namely: Is it possible to achieve the principle of one vote one value? I believe il is not possible in a practical sense. We live in a highly mobile society. There is great movement amongst people. There is dynamic growth of population in new fringe city areas. Because of the rapid shifts of population year by year and even month by month the Opposition contends that it is impracticable to limit the tolerance in the number of electors in an electorate to 10 per cent. I seek leave to incorporate the following tables which show the rapid changes of population levels between 1968 and 2nd December 1972. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many blocks in the (a) restricted and (b) unrestricted categories will be offered for sale by his Department at the next auctions. 
How many blocks will be made available for detached housing in 1973. 
Will there be sufficient land available to meet anticipated demand due to population growth. 
I rise to reply briefly to the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordon).  I was surprised that he would even enter a debate on such an issue. Had it been his colleague, the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  I would have listened with some degree of sympathy. I would have recognised that he would have been speaking with a degree of sincerity. The honourable member for Phillip, of course, represents one of the most compact electorates in New South Wales. Only an honourable member like the honourable member for Phillip could fail to understand the difficulties of parliamentary members in country electorates such as Darling. The honourable member would not appreciate what the problems of distance, remoteness and area mean not merely to parliamentary members but to people living in such electorates. 
That is true. Gwydir is the most magnificent electorate in New South Wales in every way. It is an electorate with tremendous earning capacity. It is a productive area noted for its great scenic beauty. It is far better than the Riverina electorate. If the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  were present I am sure he would join issue with me. Gwydir has an area of 32,250 square miles. It is the size of Austria. It contains more than 20 different local governing bodies - shires and municipalities. It has a number of country councils and regional local governing bodies. The member, of course, has to maintain close contact with all these local governing bodies. Gwydir extends from the Queensland border to south of Dubbo. It is of a diverse character. It contains one of the largest Aboriginal populations in New South Wales, probably second only to the electorate qf Darling. It has as wide a (ange of agricultural production as any electorate in Australia with  a  multiplicity of organisations representing the various industries. Manufacturing industry is taking hold in the area. It has  a  mining industry  - a  coal industry and  a  tin industry to the north. It contains the largest cotton growing industry in Australia. It has many other diversified irrigation areas that are bringing into the area not only increased production but also  a  degree of difficulty. In the electorate there are SO towns spread between the Queensland border to south of Dubbo and these must be serviced as much as possible by the member. 
Those country members who work in their electorates must return to their electorates every week-end. When I am in Boggabilla, for instance, it is of no value to the people of Dubbo 300 miles away. When the honourable member for Darling is in Broken Hill does anyone in Walgett know that he is in Broken Hill? When the honourable member for Phillip is in his electorate the people would surely know that he is there because all he needs do is go to his office, which is probably in the heart of a three or four square mile electorate, to be able to communicate with and get close to his people. This is good for members representing this sort of electorate and certainly good for the people they represent. 
Perhaps there are other ways of trying to overcome the problem. I do not want to canvass all of them. However I believe that government departments should have regional offices in every country town in Australia. For instance, there should be an agency or an office of the Department of Social Security in every town, regardless of its size, if we are to overcome poverty. Difficulties are associated with the Aborigines in my area. Many of them do not even know their entitlements and the member is not able to spread himself daily, weekly or monthly from one town to another to inform and assist these people. 
I have held these views for a long time and I am not afraid to express them anywhere. I believe the people in the rural areas of Australia are neglected. 
I second the amendment. I do not oppose the establishment of the proposed committee but I do support the amendment. I contend that it would be most unwise simply to apply to the Northern Territory a parliamentary formula that has been tailored to meet the needs of the Australian Capital Territory until such time as a form of local government has been devised to meet the needs of the ACT. I do not believe that there is any substitute for progress towards constitutional and political advancement. I say to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  that the Northern Territory has an elected legislature capable of setting up its own committees of inquiry. I do not oppose joint committees. I do not oppose inquiries of any sort because I believe that generally in the long term the community benefits from them. I think they help to inform members of Parliament of the problems of the Northern Territory. I think they provide to the people of the Northern Territory an oppor tunity to participate in progress and policy objectives generally. 
But I warn the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  and the Government against the dangers of trying to compare the situation that exists in the Australian Capital Territory with that which obtains in the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory is in an entirely different category. It is a vast Territory of more than 500,000 square miles. It already has a legislature. The Northern Territory Legislative Council has 11 elected members - not enough - and 6 appointed official members. It is more than 2,000 miles from Canberra. One of the most consistent complaints which I received in the 20 months that I was the Minister for the Interior was hat Canberra was too far away from Darwin. I certainly was very conscious of this problem of communication. I understand that there has been a growing fear since this Government has taken office that instead of there being progress towards constitutional advancement in the Northern Territory, there are indications of a more fragmented bureaucratic control from Canberra. This is in spite of the fact that the Minister has taken what I regard to be a sound step, namely, the setting up of the Department of the Northern Territory in Darwin. I would hate to think that this step will become a token measure. I think it was a step in the right direction. 
The new Department takes over from the Northern Territory Administration, which was situated in Darwin and was responsible through the Administrator to a Minister of the Commonwealth Parliament. The Northern Territory Administration was decentralised to some extent in that it had regional offices in Alice Springs. But I believe that this was not enough. In such a vast territory I think there need to be more regional locations of departmental administration in all the major community centres. But what has taken place since 2nd December, as I said earlier, is that the Department of the Northern Territory has been established in Darwin. However, the responsibilities of this Department appear to be narrow and limited. The Minister for the Northern Territory has been limited to a narrow range of responsibilities. If some of these responsibilities had been transferred to a local Northern Territory executive I would have had no complaint with this breakdown of the Department of the Northern Territory. 
But to establish a joint committee in the terms of the motion, I believe - unless it is given a specific charter to try to achieve advancements in the sphere of constitutional and political reform - will not please the people of the Northern Territory. Indeed, I do not think it will achieve its total objective or the objective we should be setting out to achieve. 
As the honourable member for Macarthur observed, on 25th October on behalf of the previous Government I announced proposals for the transfer of a range of functions to the Northern Territory Legislature and Executive. The functions offered to a new executive were: Total responsibilities in the areas of electricity, water and sewerage operations, housing, the Northern Territory Public Service, Treasury, personnel administration, the Northern Territory Police Force, the Northern Territory Government Printing Office, prison administration, State-type taxation such as stamp duties, succession duties, acquisition of urban land, the allocation and sub-division of land within the control of the Northern Territory Executive, urban arterial roads, and urban traffic, including motor vehicle registration. Transfer of responsibility was offered also for a range of Northern Territory statutory authorities, including the Housing Commission, the Tourist Board, the Museums and Art Galleries Board, and the Reserves Board but not including the Port Authority. The Northern Territory Administration was offered also responsibility for the functions of varying forms of community services such as libraries, fire brigades, building standards, bus services, cemeteries, inspection of scaffolding and machinery, and a range of other things of that nature. 
We decided also to transfer to the Northern Territory Administration control of a wide range of social legislation. This offer was a firm proposal that had been worked out within the Government among the various Departments and agreed to by a number of Ministers. It was the result of joint discussions that had taken place between members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council and responsible Ministers and officers of the various departments over a period of 2 years. I said at the time, and it was generally accepted, that this was a far reaching, genuine and historic proposal towards the advancement of constitutional and political reform for the Northern Territory. It was the most important step towards executive autonomy in the history of this vast Territory. The offer was made and there was no attempt on the part of the Government to impose this proposal upon the people or the Council. At the time I asked the Council to give consideration to the proposal. I invited the Northern Territory people to debate the proposal, to think about it and to come back with a decision as to whether they were prepared to accept the proposal or whether they wished to put forward a counter-proposal. I have not heard whether the present Government is prepared to stand by this offer and whether it is prepared to go beyond the proposals that have been put forward. I hope that the Minister will allow discussions to take place between the Government and the elected members of that Council to enable further progress from where the previous Government left off. 
I turn now to the fragmentation which has taken place since this Government was elected to power. In the Northern Territory there is a multiplicity of departments involved with administration. No less than 13 departments and 13 Ministers have administrative and policy responsibility for the Northern Territory. Even urban lands now involve the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  The Northern Territory Police Force is now to be responsible to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy).  This has been fiercely opposed, and rightly so, by the elected members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. It is being opposed generally by the people of the Northern Territory. They have been hopeful that their Territory would move towards a more autonomous situation. 
The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  was to have responsibility for most of the developmental projects, but it now appears that his responsibility has been reduced to beef. I am not so sure that he has influence even in beef matters now because the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  surely comes into this area in some way. I think this is a great pity because the Minister for Northern Development is a dedicated and knowledgeable man in the area of northern development. I sat where the Minister for the Northern Territory is sitting now and in debates in which I had to front up to him I must say that I was never a great deal at variance with a lot of his proposals. I have a tremendous respect for his sincerity and dedication to northern development. I think it would be a tragic thing if he is squeezed out of any responsibility in this area. He has devoted a great deal of his life to advancing the cause of the north. 
I make no reflection on our worthy Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  But where does the responsibility of the Minister for Northern Development end and where does the responsibility of the Minister for Minerals and Energy begin in this new arrangement? There are very difficult and complex administrative problems in this matter that have yet to be worked out. When one really looks at the situation one comes to the conclusion that the Department of the Northern Territory is a misnomer. What is its role? Has it administrative and policy responsibility in respect of urban and rural land? I ask the Minister for the Northern Territory to listen carefully to this. Is his Department responsible for minerals and energy, forestry, beef, education, health, environment, conservation, beef roads and development?  His  answers to those questions would enable me to assess just how effective this new Department to be based in Darwin is going to be. Unless it has a wide range of responsibility surely it will be undermined by other departments based in Canberra which will take responsibility away from the Minister's worthy new Department being set up in Darwin. 
I hope that the Minister will fight vigorously to ensure that his new Department is not eroded because of its establishment in Darwin until such time as he comes to an arrangement or agreement with the members of the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory and the people of the Northern Territory to transfer executive authority and constitutional authority over to the people of the Northern Territory. I look forward to the day when, regardless of which party is in office, the Northern Territory assumes its own full State rights and becomes the 7th State of the Commonwealth of Australia. I hope that we do not have to wait too many more years before this comes about. The discussions over which I presided in a period of less than 2 years have borne fruit and on 25th October I felt that we had reached the stage when the time was not too far off when we would be able to salute the people of the Territory as people with the same State rights as those in the other States of the Commonwealth. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. So that the Commonwealth Public Service can be completely cleared of the reflections of suspected conspiracy that were made on it and so that the Parliament can satisfy itself as to the correctness or otherwise of the conclusions reached by the Prime Minister, I ask the Prime Minister whether he will table the documents which led him to suspect that a conspiracy existed among public servants to withhold truth from the Parliament and whether he will also table the evidence that led him to rid his mind of such suspicion. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many dwellings were owned by the Commonwealth in the Australian Capital Territory as at 31st December 1972. 
How many of these were (a) houses, (b) family flats and (c) bachelor flats. 
How many Government houses have been sold to tenants since 31st December 1972. 
How many Government houses are now being rented. 
How many tenants are on the waiting list to purchase Government homes. 
Mi Enderby - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
10,447. 
(a) 8,425 houses; (b) 965 family flats; (c) 1,057 bachelor flats. 
Up to 12th March 1973-91. 
8,313 as at 12th March 1973. 
1,979 as at 12th March 1973. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Are tenants of Government houses in the Australian Capital Territory paying full economic rentals. 
How are the rentals calculated at the present time. 
What is the present range of rentals for Government houses in the Australian Capital Territory. 
How many houses are being rented at (a) less than $10 per week, (b) less than $20 per week and (c) more than $20 per week. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will he establish a public authority to operate the retail mall being planned for Belconnen in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will he arrange for financial support and recognition by the Government to be given to  Dr Kalokerinos  of Collarenabri to continue his search into Vitamin C deficiency and other health problems such as immunology  in  Central Australia. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is a serious shortage of car parking facilities for people working in Parliament House. 
Is there now less parking space available to cars than there was at the commencement of this parliamentary session. 
Has he abandoned plans to provide 2 specific areas on Camp Hill for car parking. 
Will he make urgent inquiries into this matter, with a view to providing more adequate space for car parking. 
I am pleased to support this Bill which seeks Parliament's approval to provide an additional $10m to the States for technical training facilities. This is an extension of the policy introduced originally by a Liberal-Country Party Government in 1965. Indeed, existing legislation provides for grants totalling $36m during the triennium to 30th June 1974. Over the past 5 years there has been a growing interest in the needs of technical training in Australia. For too long technical training has been the Cinderella of education. For too long it was held that university education was the be all, the end all, the aspiration of practically every Australian parent. In this technological age we need a growing number of people trained in a wide variety of technical skills. I foresee technical colleges being called upon to play an increasingly important part in education, employment and development. 
I welcome the Government's decision to set up a commission to examine the needs of technical education and to make recommendations for financial assistance that should be provided to the States for technical education. We now have a number of commissions established by the Government to examine the needs of the various levels of education. It is to be hoped that in examining the recommendations from these various commissions the Government will consider the whole broad range of education requirements and will secure a balance in the distribution of financial assistance to the areas of need. There is a great need for a rationalisation of the use of resources for education - for example, in the rationalisation of education opportunities between the States. At present there is a wide divergence in the approaches to education as between the States and whilst diversity in opportunity is essential in this age and flexibility is a must there is, nonetheless, a great need for a co-ordinated approach in the use of finance and manpower to ensure that our resources are being spent to the best advantage to meet the changing needs of our time. 
I want to devote attention to the need for the Commonwealth to assist the States in establishing pre-employment or transitional courses for young people at technical colleges, such courses to be of one year's duration. As the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  knows, I have made representations to him on behalf of the Gunnedah Municipal Council and also the Dubbo City Council to have at the technical colleges in those towns one-year pre-employment or transitional courses for young school leavers in those towns. In a letter I received from  Mr Trevallion  the Town  Clerk  of Gunnedah, he states: 
We wish to see the provision of special preemployment classes for auto-mechanics, carpentry and joinery, having in mind that boys who do obtain a suitable education level will attend at the college for a period of 6 months duringwhich time they will be trained up to a 2-year apprenticeship level. 
He goes on: 
You will appreciate the difficulties in catering for these boys, the estimated number within the range of 20 to 25 for each course, due to the fact that many come from low income families and will be unable to attend full time courses unless they obtain some living allowance. As you know, once they register for technical training they will no longer receive Commonwealth social service benefits. It does seem anomalous to us that they should be deprived of this allowance particularly in view of the fact that there is just no employment opportunity available for the majority of the boys concerned. 
The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  replied to my representations on 19th March. He has shown a great interest in this area of need. He said: 
In your letter of 2nd February you sought support for the establishment of pre-employment training courses at Gunnedah and for the payment of allowances to students in the 16 to 18-years age group who attend courses at technical colleges. I am happy to support the establishment of free pre-employment training courses as I believe they provide an effective way of imparting basic occupational skills. However, the introduction of a course at a particular centre is, you will appreciate, a State matter and I note that the Gunnedah Council is following up this question through  Mr C.  M. Fisher, M.L.A. 
He is the member for Upper Hunter. The Minister continued: 
I note also that  Mr Hewitt,  the Minister for Labour in New South Wales recently announced the establishment of pre-apprentice training courses of bricklaying and carpentry at a number of country and metropolitan centres. You will be interested to know that the question of assistance for persons undergoing pre-apprentice training courses was considered at a meeting I held with my State colleagues recently. Following that meeting I have asked my Department to prepare proposals for my further consideration. The payment of allowances for attendance at any technical college course to young people in the 16 to 18-years age group, who are in necessitous circumstances and who have not yet entered the work force has not been provided for under the existing Government training schemes. 
The Minister for Labour has appreciated this need and has indicated his willingness to pursue it. 
I suggest that the newly established commission give consideration to such a need in our changing society. The concept is not new. For instance, courses have been provided for young people in Japan wishing to learn technical skills. Other advanced nations are considering the idea at the present time. In any such program it is essential that the Commonwealth Government pay such students at least the basic wage during the 12 months course. This is essential for low income families. It is an essential incentive to attract more young people who have neither the ability nor the desire to undertake a university education, attend a college of advanced education or undertake teacher training. At the present time too many of our young people are leaving school and taking the first unskilled job available. A young person is attracted to this decision because of the relatively higher wages available to him in some of the unskilled jobs that are available on leaving school. At present students have little incentive to go to technical colleges or to enter into apprenticeships. In rural areas there is a shortage of skilled tradesmen such as motor mechanics, electronic engineers, carpenters and joiners and plumbers. If regional development throughout Australia is to get off the ground we will need hundreds more of such technically trained people. Therefore 2 considerations are paramount. The first is that incentive is necessaryto attract more young people into these trades, and the second is that the Commonwealth will have to provide the funds for such training. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Before the suspension of the setting I was stressing upon the Government the need to establish one year pre-employment courses or transitionary courses in our technical colleges. I pointed to the need for the Government to pay at least the basic wage for such students in the first year as an incentive to young people to learn a trade. At present too many of our young people are leaving school and taking the first unskilled job available. They are attracted to those jobs because of the high wages offering to young people in unskilled areas. Each year approximately 130,000 young people leave school and it is estimated that about 10,000 of those students could be encouraged to enter technical colleges under the scheme to which I have referred. If this were so such a scheme would probably cost the Commonwealth Government in the vicinity of S5m in a full year. I believe that this is not an excessive cost; rather it is a wise investment by both the Government and society generally. It will enable more of our young people to move into meaningful and productive employment in our community. 
Such transitional classes could include courses in industrial relations, management, trade union administration and a whole range of other courses. It could help educate our young people in such areas of industrial relations informing them of their rights under the laws and their obligations under the laws. It could help to improve industrial relations in the long term thus creating a better climate in industrial relations, a better understanding, and ultimately perhaps a higher level of productivity in industry. We are now living in a fast changing society where better formal education facilities are available at primary, secondary and tertiary levels. However, due to inadequate incentives in technical education there is a considerable wastage of talents and resources in some school leavers who could be attracted into this area. Young people who cannot enter university or a college of advanced education, young people who drift, often aimlessly, into unrewarding activities often' become frustrated because of a lack of job satisfaction. There are young people who are often referred to as drop-outs, which is a cruel term. If there are drop-outs in our society then society itself is not really living up to its responsibility to help them. 
We owe it to society to give every child a chance within the limits of his ability to make the most of what facilities are available to perhaps the greater portion of the community. Of course, there are always minority groups coming from low income families and families that perhaps do not place sufficient emphasis on education. These people suffer in society today. I am sure that the technical colleges should be geared financially and physically to help a section of our young people. 
The pre-employment or the one year transitional course offers this opportunity and this incentive to a group of young people. I hope that the Government, and especially the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  will see fit to give this matter very serious consideration. It would be a very worthwhile area for the new commission to move into. In fact I think the Minister has it in mind that the proposed commission study this area of need in the technical education system. 
As the Minister has said, and I have no doubt he will say it again later, it is essential for people to approach the commission and to produce evidence that there is a need for this sort of system in our technical colleges. 
I address a question to the Acting Minister for Overseas Trade. Does the Government support the Seamen's Union's ban on French ships entering and leaving Australian ports as a means of protesting against the French nuclear tests in the Pacific? Is the Acting Minister aware that last year the value of Australian goods exported to France was $153m, while the value of our imports was $70m? Is it not a fact that more than 65 per cent of our sheepskins are exported to France and are valued at approximately $34m? Would the Minister agree that the proposed action by the Seamen's Union would, in effect, force the sheep farmers and other exporters to pay the price of the Government's failure to dissuade the French Government from its nuclear testing in the Pacific? 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Has the Government finalised the acquisitions of the  18 properties  affected by the water to be stored by the Googong Dam. 
What is the anticipated completion date of the Dam. 
When win the Dam waters be available in Canberra. 
During the Committee stage of this Bill I wish to move an amendment to change the name of the Cities Commission to the Cities and Regional Development Commission. I believe that the name proposed under this Bill is too narrow and will not reflect what should be the real purpose of the Commission, which is to advise the Government on comprehensive balanced development in Australia. The Cities Commission Bill not only changes the name of the Ntaional Urban and Regional Development Association - or NURDA as it is commonly known - but also reduces its powers and limits its operations. 
I think it is significant that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  wants to call it the Cities Commission. In other words, he is saying: 'To hell with the rest of Australia; let us set up a cities commission instead of NURDA and concentrate on 60 per cent of the people living in the cities of Australia'. This Bill will replace  the  measure passed last year by the LiberalCountry Party Government which established the statutory authority known as the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. The former Government after considerable research into the needs of comprehensive balanced development in Australia established this authority which was responsible to the Government through the Prime Minister. Its purpose was to investigate, plan and advise the Government on the needs of cities and a balanced program of decentralisation. At the time, it was hailed as the most significant step taken in Australia's history by an Australian government to work with the States and local government to change the pattern of urban and regional development. Indeed, at the time, I said - and I know that others said itthat the Bill marked an historic landmark in Australia's future development. 
You have had your say. It had become abundantly clear in this, the most urbanised society in the world, with the growing congestion of traffic and people in our major capital cities and with all the associated social and environmental problems of pollution - air, water and noise - with its depressing effect on the human mentality and, I think, with its influence on the increasing crime rate amongst our young people, that the States needed the co-operation and the involvement of the Australian Government to change this trend of growth. The States with their limited financial resources but with greater resources of trained personnel and closer contact with the people needed, more than anything else, financial assistance. Whilst the Commonwealth Government has gained considerable experience in the field of urban planning as the result of the Canberra experience and the existence of the National Capital Development Commission- - a body unique in Australia - there is nevertheless a great shortage of people in the Commonwealth sphere available to tackle the enormous problems of urban and regional development in accordance with desirable modern standards and needs. 
It would be ludicrous to believe or to say that the Commonwealth has greater perception, greater urban experience, a greater pool of public servants with experience and expertise, a wiser approach, more human understanding and more responsibility than have State and local governments. To approach the problem in this way would be a nonsense approach. Local government, with all of its human resources - its town planners, engineers, town and shire clerks - has a greater pool of resources. State government, with primary responsibility in the major capital cities in Australia, has far greater experience and expertise and is closer to the people. However, Slate and local governments have had a great lack of financial resources with which to tackle the problem, lt is therefore essential to join forces with the State and local governments to make maximum use of manpower, expertise and financial resources in a co-ordinated and co-operative sense. I emphasise again that there is the greatest need for co-operation between the 3 arms of government - Commonwealth, State and local - and I believe that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is endeavouring to achieve this degree of co-operation. If the Commonwealth at any time attempts to ride roughshod over the State governments, or to bypass State governments and go direct to local government or regional councils, serious and unfortunate consequences wilt flow. 
It must be remembered that planning and development of new cities is essentially a means of making people happier, healtier and more fulfilled. Planning should not therefore be a source of pride in itself but a means of achieving good and pleasant living conditions For people. We will not achieve our goals unless we have a co-operative response from State and local governments and From the people. Unless the people are involved and understand why a plan has been developed and what the plan will achieve for them, we should not be surprised iF we Fail to obtain their co-operation. Most people are conscious oF the ugly trend in living conditions in the cities. Not many people know how to overcome them. Those of us in public places should recognise that urban and regional redevelopment represents the greatest challenge of our time. As I have said before, any program of decentralisation, regional development, new town development or city redevelopment, call it what you will, can succeed only if the people are ready to accept the need for the program. Therefore, the plans and dreams of the Minister will not come to realisation unless the people - the little people, the people generally - know what it is all about and why the program is necessary and better than plans of the past. If the whole program is thought to be a political stunt or a bureaucratic exercise the people will become suspicious and will not cooperate. 
This is essentially why it is important to have a statutory body serving as an advisory body to the Minister and his Department. I see value in having the Secretary of the Department of Urban and Regional Development serving as an associate commissioner so long as he does not dominate the deliberations or considerations of the Authority. Should this be the case the proposed Cities Commission will be only a backstop, an agency For the bureaucracy as such. I am not convinced that the Minister gave proper emphasis to the role of the Secretary of his Department as a member of the Commission when he said in his second reading speech: 
The reason for having the Secretary of the Department of Urban and Regional Development on the Commission is to ensure a degree of consistency in political implementation between the Department and the Commission. 
Surely the Commission should be acting independently of the Department and, for that matter, of the Government. While it is vital to have close liaison between the 2 bodies it is essential for the Commission as a statutory body to be independent of the Department. I am left questioning whether the Minister desires this objective when he stresses that the Secretary of his Department will ensure a degree of consistency in policy implementation between his Department and the Commission. Any planning authority needs independence in order to operate within the broad policy guidelines of the Government of the day. 
This concept of urban and regional development is a great new experiment in Australia. lt involves not only houses, factories, freeways and railroads but also people and their aspirations. It is not a new concept in Europe, the United States of America and Scandinavia but already the implementation of this policy has created new problems needing new and flexible policies. What we require is not consistency between the Commission and the Government but flexibility. We require a sense of independence and freedom for the planners. Flexibility is essential for more reasons than one. It is necessary so that policies may be varied, adjusted and changed in the light of experience gained in the early stages of implementation of the broad policy objectives of the Government. There will be problems in implementation of the policy, great human problems, great physical problems and enormous economic problems. While most agree on the need for a new pattern of regional growth and city development, very few people in this country at this point of time know what problems in totality the Commonwealth, State and local governments will have to face in the implementation of this policy objective. So let us not be too over anxious to ensure a degree of consistency in policy implementation between the Authority or the Commission, and the Department or the Government. 
It is imperative that a statutory body be free from political influence and not constrained by bureaucratic pressures. The authority must be apolitical, objective, responsible and flexible. As well it must be able to draw upon the best skills available and to understand the social attitudes, the aspirations of the people, especially the young and the young marrieds who will be involved in new town development and regional development. It will not be the older people who are involved; it will be the young people, the young married people, who will constitute the great majority of the people we hope will live in these new towns. The new cities must be ideal places in which to live. In this regard I believe that the Authority should have avails able to it the widest panels of advisory groups, including trade unions. We have a trade union representative in the advisory committee. The Minister should not smile when I say that - I mean it. Beyond the advisory committee which in itself is a bureaucratic sort of structure we may need to get a wider conspectus of opinion from trade union groups, employers, consumers, retailers, industrialists, educationists, housewives' groups, youth advisory groups and sporting, cultural and recreational groups. These groups will be involved and must be involved in the concepts of these new cities which will provide homes for people. 
I would hate to see thousands of. millions of dollars of taxpayers funds expended on developing a corridor of development between Sydney and Melbourne. I would regard this as simply an elongated urban sprawl. One would hope that the States would be encouraged to name many regional growth centres and many suitable strategic geographic locations so that we would get a broader spread of attention on the problem of comprehensive planned development. I am sure that if the Commonwealth ' assured the State governments of sufficient funds they would be prepared to go ahead on a massive scale. An enormous program will have to be implemented if the Government is serious about tackling the need to achieve a greater distribution of population in this, the largest island continent in the world. I doubt whether many people appreciate the magnitude of the task of securing sufficient financial and human resources to achieve the sort of program we envisage. 
The Commission - call it what you will - will face an enormous challenge. On present trends Australia's population will increase by more than  8  million people over the next  28  years. At the present rate of development most of this increase will go to the  2  major capital cities. Should this happen there will be extremely serious economic and social consequences for the people in these already congested areas. Let us assume that it would take a total of  27  years, allowing  5  years preplanning and  22  years for actual construction to build a new town of, say,  300,000  people. Therefore, if an average of one new town or regional growth centre were started in each of those 27 years, by the end of the century there would be only one new town completed and 27 others at varying stages of development and planning. These centres would have populations ranging from nil to 300,000 people. Thus the sum of the populations in the new towns would amount to about 3 million people  -  3 million out of an 8 million increase in population. Therefore, to commence only one centre each year means that we would divert from the major capital cities only about 3 million people out of an 8 million increase in population. 
That demonstrates the magnitude of the problem that the Minister and Australia face. In order to make a real impact on the problem one or two pilot centres - nominated by the States - in a year is not enough. Every effort must be made to assist decentralisation in all our country centres where there is an inherent growth potential. There must be a comprehensive program in conjunction with the States. The term 'Cities Commission' does not imply this intention. If the Government is sincere let it translate its intentions in the terms and title of this Bill. 
As I said earlier, in the Committee stages the Minister will be given the opportunity to show the sincerity of his Government's intentions as to whether it is going to give proper consideration to development away from the 2 great metropolitan cities, Sydney and Melbourne. lt would appear from the Minister's second reading speech that although the Cities Commission still regards regional development as an important Government policy there will be greater emphasis on the establishment of new cities on the fringes of the existing cities. Secondly, it would appear that the Minister will seek close co-operation with the States. If he does so 1 will commend him because the program will break down if this does not occur. Thirdly, I urge him to respect the independence of the Cities Commission and not to use it as a political tool of his Party or of the Government. In any successful program of redevelopment of our cities it is essential for the Australian Government in association with the States to ensure that the program is comprehensive in character. In New South Wales, for instance, it is essential in tackling the congestion problem in Sydney not to overlook the possibility of developing a number of new regional centres 300 miles or more away from the city itself. Apart from the amendment that 1 intend to move at the Committee stage I da support the Bill in principle and I hope that the observations in my contribution to this debate which I have made in complete sincerity will be taken by the Minister in the right spirit. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Aborigines are living on settlements conducted by Church Missions in the Northern Territory. 
What is the per capita financial assistance by the Government to these Missions. 
What are the details of Government aid to these Missions. 
How does the overall cost to the Government compare on a per capita basis with the Government run settlements. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many applications from Aboriginal groups for authority to prospect in the Northern Territory have been frozen pending a review of mining policy on Reserves in the Northern Territory. 
How many applications have been made for authority to prospect outside Reserves and how many have been granted. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Aborigines live (a) on and (b) outside Aboriginal Reserves In the Northern Territory. 
Do any of the Aboriginal groups living on Reserves have traditional association with land off Reserves; if so, approximately how many Aborigines are involved. 
Do any Aborigines living in communities off Reserves have traditional association with land in the Reserves; if so, approximately how many. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a petition banded to the United Nations  on  15th October 1970  from  certain Aborigines in Australia which stated  that it is  incumbent  on  the white invaders and practitioners of genocide  to  respond affirmatively to our demand  that  they  pay us  the sum  of  $6 billion  so that we  can achieve economic parity with those  who have  sought  and still seek to wipe us out. 
It so,  does the  Government support  the text of the  petition. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Which existing Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory consist of more than one tribal group. 
How many tribal groups are living at Yuendumu and Bamyili settlements. 
Will ghe granting of land rights according to traditional association result in the (a) fragmentation of existing Aboriginal communities and (b) transfer of groups of Aborigines from one location to another. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to excise 1,500 or 2,000 square miles from Wave Hill Station for the Gurindji pastoral activity or will the area be made up by excising land  from  Wave Hill, other adjoining leases and Crown Land adjacent to Wattie Creek. 
Is the area to be excised designed to recognise traditional land rights or to establish a viable economic venture. 
How many Gurindji will receive an economic benefit from the cattle station and what is the expected return to the Aborigines or a per capita basis. 
Will Aborigines of other tribal origins at Wattie Creek also share in this land acquired for the Gurindji. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he honour the undertakings of the previous Government given to Aborigines who have obtained land leases in the Northern Territory for a variety of purposes. 
Will he ensure that sufficient finance is made available to the Yugul Cattle Co. and other corporate bodies formed to operate cattle stations on reserves. 
What sum has already been allocated to these groups to assist the commencement of their enterprises. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said that the 
Bill has adopted the least authoritarian approach to the problem of inflation. I would say that the Government is adopting the maximum provisions available to it within its constitutional limits. I suppose that this is desirable, so long as the objective of controlling inflation is achieved. The Minister quite rightly admitted that this Bill will not in itself control inflation. The purposes of the Bill were described by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his second reading speech, the first purpose being to tackle the big problem of inflation. The Treasurer understates the problem of tackling inflation when he says:   . one of the most obvious lessons is that policies to contain inflation must be broad and multipronged. 
There is no simple solution to the problem of inflation in today's complex economic environment. Certainly, the establishment of a prices justification tribunal according to the terms of this Bill will not achieve that objective. If the prices justification tribunal alerts the Government and the public of Australia as a whole to the factors that contribute to inflation, some good may flow from its deliberations. 
Inflation is the product of the actions of people - not simply the actions of employers, of manufacturers or of farmers. It is the result of a total combination of the actions and the interactions of the people within the community and it is often fanned along by unwise economic actions on the part of the government of the day. However, there are 2 obvious omissions from the second reading speech of the Treasurer. Firstly, nowhere does the Treasurer or, indeed, does the Labor Government, admit that rapidly escalating wages and salaries are an important element in inflation. Secondly, nowhere does the Government admit that its own policies and actions are a major contributing factor - I believe they are a nigger in the woodpile - in the present alarming situation. 
Let me demonstrate with one example the impact of wage and salary increases on costs and the cost of living. There has been a lot of beefing about rising meat prices and their impact on inflation. Indeed, when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  recently was confronted with the March quarterly cost of living index figures which showed a 5.7 per cent increase on last year's figures for the March quarter, he lost bis cool and called upon the Australian Meat Board to come for ward with what could be termed a meat price reduction scheme. In other words, the Prime Minister was blaming the farmers for the unholy inflationary mess. He ignored, of course, the recent 10 per cent increase in butchers' wages which, when ovetime payments are taken into account, contributed an overall 4c to 5c a lb increase to the price of meat. The Government ignored a strike by Victorian abattoir workers who were demanding a 25 per cent pay increase. Surely it is understood that such pay increases that do not bear any relationship whatever to productivity in essence are inflationary and are in fact passed on to the consumer? When wages rise substantially and working hours are reduced, someone must pay the price. Whether the proposed prices justification tribunal is established or not, this will still be a fact of economic life in this country. 
The recent national wage case decision handed down an increase of $9 a week to the minimum adult weekly wage rates., overtime penalty payments being additional. The real purchasing power of the minimum wage has now increased by one-third since 1966. The national wage case, decision was fortuitous in that it did not follow the advice of the Government which supported the unions' case for a 25 per cent increase. However, the wage decision will have a significant effect on inflation. The average weekly pay set by the Commonwealth awards in January this year was $66.50. This will rise by 6 per cent to $70.30. Other factors are the $3 wage rise due to the metal trade workers' award in June and the higher overtime pay that was handed out then. 
One question that I pose is: To what extent can these wage rises be absorbed by the economy? The first report of the. Council of Economic Advisers of the Kennedy Administration in 1962 in the United States stated that the general guide for wage behaviour to be non-inflationary is that the increase in wage rates in each industry is equal to the . . . rate of overall productivity increase'. The problem in Australia is that our productivity performance has been relatively poor - about 2 per cent. Moreover, in 1970- 71 and 1971-72, productivity in non-rural industries actually declined. The natural scope for the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the central role of the Australian Council of Trade Unions within the union movement tend to accelerate the rate at which money wage increases in industries achieving rapid improvements in productivity spread to industries achieving more modest gains. 
The other important factors in the inflation problem are the policies and the actions of the Government itself. The Treasurer referred to some of them in his second reading speech - domestic monetary measures, overseas capital inflow and the capital expenditure programs of the Government. The Treasurer referred to the revaluations of the Australian dollar as being introduced to try to stop or to level out the inflationary spiral. There is no evidence to suggest that the double barrel revaluation upwards of the Australian dollar will ease inflation. Indeed, evidence is mounting that inflation will continue to rise at a record rate and this is not at all surprising. The spending spree of the Labor Government which it has demonstrated since taking office by throwing around taxpayers' funds like chicken feed has, of course, a political objective, but we now face a record deficit at the end of this year. 
It has been said tonight in this debate that the former Government contributed to some of this deficit and this may be a fair comment for Government spokesmen to make. But the truth of the matter is that the deficit is mounting to an alarming figure and, of course, this sort of deficit budgeting must be inflationary in itself. In the public sector, running costs of the departments will increase by no less than $35.5m because of increased awards, equal pay, holiday benefits and so on. Not only can we expect substantially increased taxation, perhaps not this year but in 1974; we can also expect a violent surge of inflation leading, I believe, to stagnation in the private and commercial sectors. Of course, one does not have to be very bright to know what will happen then. This will be followed by unemployment. This has been the pattern that we have seen around the world and we hope that we will not see a return of the fears of unemployment as a result of stagnation which could be caused through lack of confidence in the private sector. 
Regrettably, this change in economic management came at a time when the Australian economy was actually gaining in momentum, when confidence was returning, when export industries were taking advantage of better markets overseas, when unemployment was falling due to measures that were taken in the last 6 or 7 months of the reign of the McMahon Government and when there were signs of a slowing down of the inflationary rate which became apparent early in 1970. The other serious factors that will push inflation to the roof are, of course, the Government's support of union claims for a 35-hour week, which looks like coming into effect over the next year or two, costing not only the employers but also the Australian people an additional $3,000m annually. Much of these wage increases in fact will be passed on to the housewife - the consumer. It cannot be avoided. This will undoubtedly add a further 10 per cent to the cost of goods alone. 
All these concessions to which I have referred that take place without any increase in productivity or production must in themselves be inflationary and have serious consequences for the average individual. It does not matter how many committees or tribunals the Government establishes; we are faced with inflation while ever the Government ignores the fact that increased wages without increased productivity will in fact contribute to the inflationary cost and while ever it ignores that its own expansionary policies will be a contributing factor. The record Budget deficit that we face, the increased Government expenditure, the increased wages and salaries, the shorter working hours and the longer holidays are all factors that will contribute to an inflationary spiral. Here we see the establishment of a Prices Justification Tribunal with, to quote the Treasurer, 'a membership of people with no qualifications for membership specified'. 
This is a Bill in respect of which the Government can claim to have a mandate. I believe that it is hotchpotch legislation which no doubt will cause confusion and uncertainty in day to day business operations. It no doubt will create enormous and unnecessary administrative burdens on companies without achieving its proper objective - costly burdens which no doubt will be passed on. It will operate in a discriminatory manner against those companies which are singled out for special treatment. The Act will apply only to certain companies, namely, those whose receipts from the supply of goods or services, or both exceeded $20m in the previous 12 months. The Act also will apply to each company in a group of companies where the business receipts of the groups exceeded $20m ia the previous year. The criterion that necessarily is involved is not the economic impact of the activity of a particular company but the size of its turnover. Sub-clauses 18 (1) and (2) of the Bill are the important operative provisions. They prohibit the supply by an affected company of goods or services of a particular description at higher prices without resort to the procedures set out relating to the Tribunal. They prohibit the supply of any new goods or services without resort to the procedures of- the Tribunal. 
The term 'goods of a particular description' is not defined but presumably means every variety of item which is capable of being described with particularity. Thus, each single item of the many thousands of items on sale on the shelves of the supermarket constitutes goods of a particular description', but just how particular the description needs to be is not clear. For example, a motor car dealer may sell Holden motor cars of a particular year of manufacture in many combinations of optional extras, colours, types of tyres and so forth. Is each car to be regarded as 'goods of a particular description'? Take the case of a company which is affected by the Act and which controls a chain of motels. One of its motels may receive a supply of eggs from a local producer. By reason of seasonal fluctuations the local supplier may raise the price of his eggs. That motel, which is in competition with other motels in the area, may wish to raise the price of this item on its breakfast menu. Such a meal no doubt would constitute goods of a particular description'? Before the motel can raise its price it must notify the Tribunal and be subject to the procedures outlined in the Bill. 
Precisely the same considerations would apply to a vast range of other goods sold at the motel - matches, cigarettes, newspapers, drinks and so forth. In the event of any proposed price rise, the cause of which is quite beyond the control of the motel' a similar procedure must be followed. Not only will this involve a vast administrative effort, but it is unfair in its operation because motels which do not happen to be part of the chain owned by the company affected by the Act but whose prices are related to precisely the same considerations can raise their prices without resort to the Tribunal's procedures at all. 
I could go on. There are many strange anomalies in the Bill. I think the Bill will be extremely difficult to administer. It will be very difficult to follow through some of the items that the Tribunal will be called upon to examine. Under this Bill in its present form inordinate delays in the reaching of decisions by the Tribunal could occur. This delay would be quite outside the control of the affected party. The Bill has been conceived without any prior consultation with industry and commerce generally or with the companies which will be affected by the Act. This seems to be an extraordinary approach by a government which has a responsibility not only for individuals within the community but also for the people who serve individuals and for companies within the community. How can the Government form legislation and put it into practice unless it takes into account the interests or the attitudes of the people over whom the Government is professing to keep some control? 
It is clear enough that the effect of the Bill in terms of its practical application and economic impact is ill conceived. In its present form the Bill will produce results that will be unworkable, unrealistic and unfair; Nevertheless, it is true to say that the Government has a mandate from the people to establish such a tribunal. It is doubtful that it will achieve anything other than confusion. It is the pudding of the Government made from a Labor Party recipe. It is to be hoped that the Government has the capacity to stomach the consequences of the Bill. It is my hope that the Australian community does not suffer as much as I think it will from its ultimate inflationary dispepsia. 
I would like the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation to clarify one point for me. Do I take it that it is the Government's intention in widening the powers of TAA in the terms of this Bill not to allow the commercial operations of TAA outside of its transport operations to exceed the present commercial operations of Ansett Airlines of Australia? In other words, in the terms of the amendment which is proposed by the Minister, do I assume that the Minister will not widen the powers to allow TAA to go into commercial operations to any greater extent than Ansett Airlines of Australia operates at present? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Bradfield. Is the Treasurer aware of the alarm that his statements have caused among the investors in permanent building societies and amongst the building societies themselves? Is he aware that these building societies have been an important medium for long term loans and finance for home builders amongst the wage earners of this country? Is he aware that the loss of confidence his statements have caused could deny to thousands of potential young home owners the finance to build their own homes? In view of the Government's attitude to the permanent building societies and their interest rates, what other plans has the Government for ensuring the enormous volume of long term low interest rate finance that would be needed for home buyers and builders so as to maintain the high home building rate which this Government inherited from the former Government when taking office? 
I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I join the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  in congratulating the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  on making this statement tonight and for showing a great degree of realism in announcing a redistribution of electorates in Western Australia. I do not think I should let this occasion pass without saying that the former Government was not able to undertake a redistribution in Western Australia because the Commonwealth Statistician was unable to furnish it with final figures in sufficient time to enable a certificate to be issued, thus enabling a redistribution to take place in Western Australia. Nevertheless, I think the Minister has shown great wisdom in moving now to undertake a redistribution in Western Australia, even if that redistribution is to be undertaken in accordance with the terms of the existing Electoral Act. I think the Minister, and indeed the Government, perhaps have read the mood of the Parliament. Whilst there was a slight insinuation in the Minister's statement of a warning to the Senate that the former Bill will be reintroduced, there was not the same fervour in talk of a double dissolution as there was prior to the Victorian State elections. Being a realist, I know why the result of the Victorian elections would moderate such a mood. 
It is true that Western Australia is entitled to  10  members instead of the present nine. It is right and proper, as the Minister has said, that he should introduce procedures to provide Western Australia, in the terms of the Act, with a redistribution to take account of the needs of Western Australia. But I cannot help saying that there is a degree of hint in what has happened here tonight. Obviously the Government has taken it for granted that the Electoral Bill will be defeated again in the Senate. The  Government  will go ahead and have a redistribution based on the old formula and then proceed to have an election, probably at a later stage when the Government feels that the climate may be more favourable to it. To honourable members on this side of the House I say that I feel that the climate will probably deteriorate as the months pass and as the people of Australia really understand the sort of economic mess into which the Government has driven this nation. 
In reply to the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews I must say that his remarks about the honourable member for Curtin (Mr Garland)  were not very generous because although he may not have made a lot of speeches - and I could not say whether he did or did not - on the question of local government, I do know that he has served in local government for 8 years and as a  deputy  mayor of his council. Indeed, a good many of those in this chamber have. I served in local government for 12i years, and so there are a number of people in this chamber who speak with a great deal of sincerity about the needs of local government and the way in which it should be helped to serve the community in this very important sphere. 
However, I find myself in broad agreement with most of the comments that the honourable member for Curtin made in this debate. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stated that the Grants Commission is designed to place local government within the framework of the federal system. I vigorously contest this contention. The Prime Minister believes not in the Federal system but in a unitary system of government; that is, one central government with absolute power, residing in Canberra. I therefore find it strange that the Prime Minister should give such emphasis to this point in his second reading speech when he said: 
This Bill is designed to place local government firmly within the framework of the federal system. The Government is determined to make the third tier of government a genuine partner in the system and to give local government adequate access to the nation's finances. 
'I do not oppose that contention at all but I question whether the Prime Minister was sincere in opening his second reading speech with that statement. He gave prominence to this sentiment because he opened his second reading speech with those words, but why did he do so? Did he intend to draw a smokescreen across the real motive and intention of the Government in this matter? I find it paradoxical that the Prime Minister should give such emphasis to the need to put local government within the Federal framework as such when only this week in answer to a question from the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  he said that he favoured the unitary system of government in Australia. I question whether he sincerely wants to see the strengthening of the federal system as such in Australia. 
I think it is. T think it is the gut issue in this particular Bill. One wonders, therefore, wherein lies the catch. Perhaps the purpose of the Bill is twofold. Firstly, to assist local government, preferably on a regional basis, to establish the regional concept of government and not the federal system - not to build the federal concept or to strengthen it. Secondly, to bypass the State governments thus eroding their functions and, more importantly, their constitutional responsibility for local government. Local government is the third but an essential limb of executive administration in our federal system. The Australian Labor Party and, indeed, the Prime Minister, often have implied that Australia has too few States and too many local governments, thus this Bill could be the vehicle for whittling away the sovereign powers of the States and achieving the regional council concept in lieu of the present federal system of government. Under such a system the central government would rule supreme without sovereign States but with regional councils subservient to the central government. This, of course, would provide the great Garden of Eden for the achievement of the total socialist objective in this country. I refer now to an essay by the late Professor Ross Anderson entitled The States and Relations with the Commonwealth' wherein he wrote: 
In any case, whether that distinction is accepted or not, the truth is that, on the authority of the Uniform Tax Cases, the independence of the States can be destroyed in a perfectly legal manner by a combination of the Commonwealth's taxing power and grants power. To say, then, that the Constitution contemplates the continued existence of the States as independent entities is to ignore this vital fact. 
In that essay Professor Anderson also wrote: 
In spite of this constant  cricitism  from State sources, Commonwealth governments have shown no inclination to refrain from exercising their power to attach conditions to State grants. On the contrary, it is evident that Commonwealth governments of all political persuasions, in the security of their control of the financial resources of the country, are coming more and more to recognise section 96 as the means of enabling them to overcome the constitutional limitations on Commonwealth power, and as a strong stick with which to beat the States into accepting the role of executive agents for Commonwealth-conceived policies. 
I see this Bill as really the final attack upon the federal system and the sovereignty of the States in this Commonwealth. Constitutionally local government in Australia is a creature of State governments and legally subordinate to them. This is not to say that the Commonwealth Government should not assist local government through the States to help local government discharge its community responsibilities. At present the Commonwealth assists the States through section 96 grants, such as the Commonwealth aid roads grants. The needs of local and semi-government authorities are considered at Australian Loan Council meetings but the allocation of borrowing rights among local bodies is a responsibility of the appropriate State government. No local government has a legal existence independent of its State government. This applies with respect to its boundaries and to the internal administration of local government, especially the financial administration which, of course, is closely supervised by the various State local government departments. However the role of local government progressively has increased. Not so many years ago we thought of local government as having a responsibility principally in the fields of road construction, kerbing and guttering and perhaps developing and caring for parks. Today the responsibilities of local government are much broader  and are well known. Local government undertakes an impressive range of activities in the fields of social welfare and cultural activity. The pattern of local government expenditure is illustrated by a table which I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. The table, which relates to local authority expenditure during 1970-71, shows a total expenditure of $765.5m. 
I thank the House. Overall, local government bodies raise 86.7 per cent of the current revenue from their own resources, principally from the ratepayers. An important consideration is that the proportion of local government revenue raised by local bodies in Australia is considerably higher than in many other countries. This is the nub of our problem - the problem of the heavy burden that is being experienced by ratepayers throughout 
Australia. For instance, the proportion of the total receipts that are collected by local government in Australia is 56.4 per cent; in Canada, 54 per cent; in New Zealand, 27.5 per cent; in the United States of America, 43 per cent; in Sweden, 50 per cent and in India 31.6 per cent. Government grants as a percentage of ordinary revenue - that is from the common revenue pool - in Australia are 14.7 per cent; in New Zealand, 20 per cent; in Canada, 32 per cent; in the United States of America, 28 per cent and in Sweden, 22.4 per cent. These figures serve to justify a substantial move by the Commonwealth to assist local government through the States. However, I sincerely believe that this Bill falls far short of the mark. Indeed it does not go anywhere near the proposition that the local government authorities put to the now Prime Minister in April of last year. I should like to quote the 3 propositions that were put to him. They are incorporated in the annual report of the Local Associations of New South Wales. The relevant passage reads: 

 Mr Whitlam paid the Association the courtesy of inviting your  President  and also the  President  of the Shires Association along to the meeting and we took the opportunity of submitting a joint statement of policy to him. 
As immediate and major objectives of local government, three fundamental propositions were listed: 
That local government should be included as an active participant in the review of the Australian Constitution and that this review should include recognition in the constitution of local government. 
This, of course, has been accommodated. The quotation continues: 
A financial formula should be agreed on between the Commonwealth and the States to provide for a Commonwealth allocation to the States of a fixed percentage of total income tax, this sum to be earmarked for local government services and to bs distributed to local government by the representative State government through the State Local Government Assistance Funds. 
That local government should have representation on the Loan Council. 
So what do we have as a result of that meeting? A Grants Commission will be established which of course will enable local government bodies on a regional basis to bypass their State governments. So I believe this proposal will undermine the federal structure of this country. 
How does this Bill satisfy the needs of individual municipal councils and shire councils? I have received and conveyed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  a representation from the Coonamble 
Shire Council. The Council is seeking $250,000 to establish a sewerage system at a place called Gulargambone in western New South Wales. I know that I will be receiving a request from the Dubbo City Council for a grant of $lm to develop a drainage system in that city. Are we to expect that all these individual requests which have been made as a result of the pressing problems of specific shire councils will be dealt with satisfactorily and favourably by the Grants Commission? I await with great interest to see whether the Minister does in fact refer to the Grants Commission the request from the Coonamble Shire Council for a sewerage system at Gulargambone. I will be very interested to see whether in fact he does refer to the Grants Commission the request for funds for a drainage system for the city of Dubbo which will cost $lm. I hope that he does. If he does, however, this will not really meet the spirit of the second reading speech of the Prime Minister. 
I believe that the Bill will cause friction between the 3 tiers of government. I demonstrate this by quoting what the Prime Minister said in his second reading speech. The honourable gentleman stated: 
The Act will require a regional organisation making an application to the Minister to send a copy of its application to the appropriate Minister in the State Government so the Minister may be aware of the details of the application and be in a position to make submissions to the Commission on any matter related to the application. 
I see great problems in this. A regional organisation will not be easy to define. 
The other very real problem that I see in this Bill is expressed in that part of the second reading speech where the Prime Minister emphasised that applications for assistance for single purpose or specific development projects will not be the concern of the Grants Commission. So we come back to the sample request that came from the Coonamble Shire Council. Will the Coonamble Shire Council be eligible to receive $250,000 for its sewerage system at Gulargambone? Of course, if it does not receive assistance for this project the whole proposition is a sham as it affects individual shire councils in this country. I do not really believe that this legislation gets to the heart of the problem. Not only will we see the spectacle of the States going cap in hand to the Commonwealth as a result of this Bill if it is carried but also we will also see local governments come running, knocking their 
1JJ70 73- «- 4100J 
hips down like brumbies racing to water. The procedures are bad and I believe they are designed to break down the federal system. 
Whilst I accept the urgent need for the Commonwealth to channel preferably a percentage of income tax to local government through the States, I do not like this Bill. There is a great need to relieve taxpayers of the increasing burden of rates and to transfer the cost of local government more equitably across the whole community rather than leave the weight as it now rests upon the shoulders of a minority section of the community in many instances - the ratepayers. The system of financing local government is archaic and inadequate. If local government has to service the community needs on a broad front, the community as a whole should share more appropriately the cost of those services. This surely is what the local government finance demands are all about. This is why there have been deputations from local government associations to former governments and to this Government pleading and crying out for assistance. This Bill surely must disappoint them because it will not get to the heart of the problem that faces local government in this country. 
I believe that this Bill is a cunning device which gives the appearance of meeting the local government finance problem but which in fact will be used to break down the federal system of government in Australia. Therefore I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  which states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: while not refusing to give the Bill a second reading, this House deplores the establishment of a complex new bureaucratic Commonwealth mechanism and is of opinion that the Bill should have provided that: 
immediate consultations be held with the States to determine the financial requirements of local Government taking into account their loan commitments, their overall financial responsibilities and the burden of rates on ratepayers; 
funds provided to meet these requirements should be allocated to State Governments for distribution to local Government in accordance with priorities determined by the States after consultation with local Government; and 
payments should commence in 1973-74.'. 
No, this Bill is a great disappointment to local government and it is a great threat to the federal system in Australia. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will he ensure that the demolition of the former Commonwealth hostel, Reid House, takes place so that additional car parking space is available in the city area. 
If not, what other plans has he to provide urgently needed additional parking areas in the city. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is to the Minister for Social Security. To help overcome some pockets of poverty amongst Aborigines and others in rural Australia, will the Minister continue- 'indeed, step up - the previous Government's policy of providing regional offices of his Department in rural areas? Is he aware that these regional offices currently are serving the needs of people up to 300 and 400 miles away from these offices? Will he open either an office or an agency of his Department in every community centre throughout Australia so that all people, especially those in rural areas not already served by such facilities, will have easy access to information concerning their social welfare entitlements? 
I do not intend to delay the House unduly in devoting my attention to this conglomerate of electoral Bills. But T want to give some support to the argument that was put forward here tonight by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who very satisfactorily demolished the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill as the most serious threat yet to State rights. The Senate, of course, is the chamber that has been regarded as the States House and I see this Bill as a very serious threat to the federal system of Australia. In the last few months, or at least since this House met earlier this year, we have seen one Bill after another come into this place that obviously is intended to achieve this unitary form of government that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is so hell-bent on achieving in this country. 
Well, I do not think the people of Australia are anxious to find themselves with all power centralised and centred in the Australian Capital Territory. It will be a very serious thing for Australia and for the Australian people should this ever happen because it would open the door to all sorts of totalitarian actions of government. We have prided ourselves on having a federal system of government, a system that has protected the rights of the individual. So every effort must be made by the Australian people to ensure that we do not allow the central government to whittle away the authority of the States and the rights of the States generally, as it appears to be doing. 
We are discussing tonight a BDI which in fact does that - a Bill, as the honourable member for Moreton has said, which would give the right if extended to every Australian terri tory to have Senate representation. Of course, if this were done we would end up with a hotchpotch Senate representation which would take away the power of the Senate to protect the rights of the States. The Senate is a States House and a House of review and I think that this move must be resisted for that reason. I am not opposed to trying to give more representation to the Northern Territory. In fact, the former Government over the years extended greater powers to the member for the Northern Territory who today has full voting rights in this chamber, as he should. 
That is correct. I do not think there has ever been a parliamentary representative who has worked harder for a larger area or slice of Australian territory than has the honourable member for the Northern Territory. But are we to allow the federal system to be prostituted in this way by a Bill of this nature? 
Moving closer to the Australian Capital Territory we are also discussing the Australian Capital Territory Representation (House of Representatives) Bill which provides for an additional member for the Australian Capital Territory. An amendment will be moved at a later stage to this piece of legislation. I am very concerned about one aspect of it because 1 believe that the Government is attempting to by-pass the present provisions of the Electoral Act that require a redistribution providing a margin of one-fifth above or below the mean for each electorate. Yet we see in this Bill an attempt to once again get to the onetenth margin that this House and the other place have dealt with already. I believe that we cannot allow the Government to try a piece of clever footwork with respect to the Australian Capital Territory. Therefore I will give my support to the amendment which will be moved during the Committee stage that will protect and preserve a principle that has stood the test of time since Federation - the principle of giving a margin of 20 per cent to the Distribution Commissioners when drawing the boundaries for electorates throughout Australia. 
Other provisions in the legislation also are not altogether consistent with the Electoral Bill that was introduced earlier in this session. I refer to the criteria that are outlined in the Bill for the electoral commisisoners in drawing boundaries. Clause 10 of the Australian 
Capital Territory Representation (House of Representatives) Bill states: 
The Distribution Committee shall make a proposed division of the Territory into two Electoral Divisions in accordance with this section. 
In making the proposed division the Distribution Committee shall give due consideration, in relation to each proposed Electoral Division, to: 
community or diversity of interests; 
trend of population changes; and 
physical features, 
I understand that in committee the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  will move an amendment seeking to alter the wording of Clause 10 (2) (a) to read: community of interests within the Division, including economic, social and regional interests'. I believe that the provisions of the Bill should be changed so that they accord, at least, with the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Bill which was introduced into this House by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  Therefore, firstly I oppose the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill for the reasons I have outlined. I see it as a very serious threat to the constitutional rights of the States. I see it also as eroding the principles of the States House, the Senate. Secondly, I believe that we should resist the moves of the Government which has been trying, as it were, to sneak into the Australian Capital Territory Representation (House of Representatives) Bill a provision allowing a 10 per cent variation above or below the quota in the Australian Capital Territory. The Opposition opposed in this House the Commonwealth Electoral Bill which has since been opposed in another place. 1 believe that in order to be consistent we certainly must oppose that section of the legislation now before us. 
Later in the day I understand we will receive from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  an outline of the Government's record since assuming office. I would like to give a brief summary of the Government's sorry record in one area in particular. The sequence of events that led to the raid by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the near hysteria caused by the heaviest security measures ever taken to protect the communist Yugoslav Prime Minister whilst in Australia and the subsequent events are worth recalling in this Parliament on this the last day of this extraordinary session. 
Let me say from the outset that one could be forgiven for believing that this Government has been more interested in appeasing the communist world than in preserving the respect of the peoples of the free world for the name of Australia. The Prime Minister's lack of interest in and opposition to the aggressive actions taken by the communists in IndoChina must surely support the view that his Government is dominated largely by pressures from communist sources inside and outside this country. Firstly, on assuming office in the first week the duumvirate Whitlam-Barnard dictatorship moved to recognise communist China and to dump Taiwan. Then it abandoned national service training and released draft dodgers. The Prime Minister of New Zealand,  Mr Kirk,  of course did not take this sort of action on assuming office. Then we saw tha recognition ot East Germany before Willi Brandt had signed the East-West agreements, before many other European nations thought it prudent to do so. All this was done without reference to this Parliament. We saw the recogtion of Hanoi and the invitation by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and a few of his friends to representatives of the Vietcong to come to Australia as their guests, arriving here about Anzac Day. We saw photographs of the Minister for Overseas Trade presiding over a conference with these people in the Sydney Town Hall. We have heard the insults that were poured on  President  Nixon by senior Ministers of the Whitlam socialist Government, using such terms as 'murderer'. Al) these actions were designed to please and appease the left wing and the new socialist left of the Australian Labor Party - actions that will please the communist world and cause despair amongst our traditional friends. 
Let us follow this catalogue further. There was the action to remove our troops from Singapore and Malaysia by the end of 1973, thus threatening the stability of our friendly neighbours in South-East Asia, threatening our Five Power Agreement. The clumsy exposure of the military telecommunications base in Singapore - its presence known to  President  Lee Kuan Yew - caused the  President  embarrassment. All these actions are in accord with the left wing socialist policy and are in accord with the strategy of the communist world. Closer to home we have witnessed the efforts by the left wing of the Labor Party to destroy the United States-Australia alliance and to have the joint United States-Australian defence bases in Australia removed. 
Now we come to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, which has always been the target for attack by the Australian Labor Party's left wing socialists. Only 2 years ago the left wing failed by one vote to have the security organisation dismantled in terms of the Australian Labor Party's policy. We know which camp the Attorney-General supports; on which side of the fence he dangles his legs. Why did the Attorney-General raid ASIO? This question has never been answered. The Prime Minister has never attempted to answer it. On  4  April this year the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  asked the Prime Minister why  Senator Murphy  raided ASIO. He did not give an answer and he has refused consistently to give an answer to that question Since. Did the Attorney-General raid the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to satisfy the left wing policy objective? Did he raid the Security Intelligence Organisation to discredit it? Did he attempt to discredit ASIO so that he would have an excuse to dismantle the organisation? Why does the left wing of the Australian Labor Party distrust this organisation? Has ASIO too much information about certain members of the Australian Labor Party with left wing tendencies? Why have certain Ministers not agreed to have certain members of their staffs cleared by ASIO. This question has never been answered in this Parliament. 
I would not have any suspicions about the Minister because he is a right wing Labor man, but how many Ministers in the Government have refused to have their staffs security cleared? Why have they refused? These are the questions not only in my mind but in the minds of a lot of people in this country. What were the files the AttorneyGeneral sealed when he raided the ASIO headquarters in Melbourne? Was he worried about certain information in those files? Whatever the answers, there is a shadow of doubt over the head of the Attorney-General. The whole exercise has been bizarre and frightening. Allegation after allegation has been made by the Attorney-General and excuse after excuse has been offered by the Prime Minister. 
An attempt was made by  Senator Murphy  to smear the former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  who was accused of being a protector of violent extremists. Then there was a suggestion of conspiracy, then at last the allegation that a document that led to  Senator Murphy's  extraordinary action was inaccurate. Who was responsible? We were told that it was an ASIO official. So the whole blame was left to reside with the Security Intelligence Organisation, the suggestion being that it is incompetent. The objective of the actions is in doubt in the minds of many people in this country. This gives the socialist left in the Government the excuse to get on with its job of dismantling what it regards as an evil institution with too much information and knowledge about communist underground activities in this country. The whole nation was led on an emotional goose chase after a few extreme right wing Ustasha Croatians. We were told by  Senator Murphy  that they were planning to invade Yugoslavia from 
Australia. We witnessed the raids on 90 homes in Sydney between midnight and dawn, with 12 arrests and a range of charges including assaulting police. The whole exercise has been a right wing witch hunt to conceal the motive of satisfying the left wing socialists of the ALP. This is all good music to the ears of the communist world - our newly won friends. It is a sad song to our friends and allies in the Western democratic world. 
One of the worst features of this whole episode was that the Attorney-General had knowledge of 3 Australian citizens having been shot in Yugoslavia but refused to convey it to the Prime Minister and so embarrassed the Prime Minister of Australia by refusing to act in a responsible way. I wholeheartedly support and approve the action by the Senate majority to set up a select committee of inquiry. It is understandable that the AttorneyGeneral should have attempted to break an understanding and should have attempted to break the arrangement for having pairs in the Senate. He wanted to save himself from the scrutiny that he jolly well deserves. I believe that the majority of the Senate has taken a responsible and sensible attitude to bring into the open the activities and the facts relating to one of the most bizarre incidents in the political history of this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has not accepted the Senate's amendment which seeks to change the name of the Cities Commission to the Cities and Regional Development Commission. I find this hard to understand because I believe this was a very practical and sensible alteration. It is one that the Government could well have accepted in order to give the sort of connotation that the Minister has been expressing for some time with respect to regional development and decentralisation. Unless the Government, or for that matter any government, approaches the problem of decentralisation or regional development in a comprehensive fashion so that we get a comprehensive approach to the problems of our major cities, principally Melbourne and Sydney, and the need to try to build up the population in some of the centres that have an inherent growth capacity - centres such as Orange and Bathurst, which has been named, and also Dubbo, Tamworth, Coffs Harbour and perhaps Griffith in time to come - I believe we will not make a real impact on the total problem of regional development. 
I would have thought that the Government would see the wisdom in giving to the statutory body a name which would imply the real, or what should be the real, intention of the Minister and the Government. The body proposed in this legislation will need to take into account the needs of the major cities of Australia, the need to make those cities more attractive and more livable and also the need to achieve a more comprehensive spread of population if the whole expensive exercise is to be of value to the people of Australia. The Bill which was introduced by the former Government to establish the National Urban and Regional Development Authority was bailed by people on this side of the House and people outside of the House as the most significant step that had been taken by any government in Australia to try to alter the trend of ulgy development in Australia. Of course, the whole philosophy behind the move at that time was to try to approach the problem on a comprehensive scale. 
I am disappointed that the Minister and the Government have not seen fit to accept what I thought was a very constructive amendment. The Senate's amendment simply proposes to change the name from the Cities Commission to the Cities and Regional Development Commission. I cannot see why the Government does not want to accept this as a fair name, as a name that would give the right and real meaning of its intentions. Perhaps the Minister will concentrate the efforts of this Commission on building new towns on the fringes of existing cities. 
Perhaps he will follow the idea of corridor development between Sydney and Melbourne. 
Is that right? 
That is your corridor development? 
How do Griffith, Dubbo and Tamworth get on in this sort of corridor. 
Not really. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
Will he report on the progress of discussions, between the relevant Departments, which were initiated in 1972 with a view to providing low cost accommodation for students in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister for  the  Capital Territory, upon notice: 
When will the Government set up a Royal Commission to investigate self-government in the Australian Capital Territory on the basis of partnership in administration between the national and local interest, recognising the interest and ultimate authority of Federal Parliament in the Government of the Australian Capital Territory, in accordance with the pre-election policy of the Australian Labor Party. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
What action is proposed by the Government to establish a North Australian Development Organisation in co-operation with Western Australia and Queensland. 
I would like briefly to pay a tribute to the late Dugald Munro and convey my sympathy to his wife and members of his family. Although he served as a member representing Eden-Monaro, he was a member of a well-known family which pioneered the Moree district, which happens to be my home district. His father was known as a truly great horseman, a great cattleman and a great figure in that part of New South Wales. Dugald Munro 's death removes from among us an outstanding man in the prime of his life, a man who had a warm and dedicated public spirit His death represents a great loss to the community that he loved so much. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. If the Government has not defined the regions in which local governing bodies will be eligible to receive special grants from the Grants Commission has it defined the parameters of regional inequality between regions? Will local government in areas such as Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst-Orange growth centres and Holsworthy-Campbelltown-Camden centres currently under examination by the Cities Commission be eligible to receive nonrepayable appropriations from the Grants Commission? Or will assistance in these regional areas be restricted to interest bearing advances from the Treasury? Does the Minister agree that local government bodies in regional growth centres chosen for special development have an advantage over other regions which are not chosen and therefore would be less likely to receive assistance from the Grants Commission? 
asked the Minister for Urban  and  Regional Development, upon notice: 
Has the National Capital Development Commission carried out a survey of the flood peak levels in the Tuggeranong district and in particular in the section known as Wanniassa. 
Whilst this is the first time in Australian history that direct budgetary allocations have been made to a cities program it is an inevitable natural flowon from the action taken last year by the Liberal-Country Party Government to establish the National Urban and Regional Development Authority under the chairmanship of  Sir John  Overall. This decision was taken after considerable research and discussion at the departmental level and between the States. It is true that efforts in the area of decentralisation by the various States have not been sufficient to stop the drift to the cities, as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  pointed out in his statement, but it has been only in the last 3 years, at the most, that there has been any real ground swell of public acknowledgement and support for the concept of comprehensive balanced development. I nevertheless congratulate the Minister for being the Minister responsible for the first direct appropriation to a cities program. 
Let no one say this year's Budget allocation of $33m of repayable loans to the States is the final answer to or the financial formula for the rapidly growing population concentration problem. As the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  rightly said: 'Why repayable loans; why not specific nonrepayable grants to the States?' It would seem to be a silly inconsistency - indeed a divergence in policy initiatives - to develop selected growth centres with repayable interest-bearing grants and other centres with non-repayable grants from the Grants Commission. Let not the Minister delude us about his Government's real intention which in this regard is basically, so far as decentralisation is concerned, to reallocate resources from the rural sector to the cities. This Budget itself clips off at least $150m of assistance to rural areas. A whole range of additional costs now come upon the shoulders of country people. These include increased costs for telephone connections, increased telephone rentals, higher postage rates, higher air fares, a partial elimination of the petrol price equalisation scheme, a new meat tax costing $14m, elimination of investment allowances and the reduction of depreciation allowances for farmers costing the rural people in a full year at least $150m. Here, today, the Minister proudly announces his Government's decision to allocate $33m of repayable loans to the States for a vast program of balanced development. 
Let me be frank. So far as my electorate of Gwydir is concerned, not one town or one community centre will benefit from this appropriation. In fact, the electorate as such will suffer as a result of the Budget proposal to withdraw incentives from rural areas. This will not in any way assist the program of decentralisation in the Gwydir electorate. I suppose that other electorates in rural Australia are placed in a similar position. 
To return to the statement, the success of the Government's urban and regional development policy and the change in the pattern of development in Australia is in the balance, lt will depend on a number of factors including, firstly, a genuine desire to encourage comprehensive balanced development, achieving a balance between the need to cater for metropolitan redevelopment and the development of a large number of well located regional growth centres away from the existing metropolitan complexes; secondly, the successful cooperation and co-ordination of resources of the Australian State and local governments. Unless there is this high degree of goodwill and clear intention on the part of the Australian Government to work with the States, the right spirit will not be engendered and I am sure the result will be frustration and failure. However, I am pleased that the Minister has shown this keen desire for cooperation in all the discussions that he has had with the States. I have heard this from various quarters and I hope that this will become the pattern of his endeavour. The third factor is the provision of extensive quantities of Commonwealth finances annually; the fourth is the provision of an extensive range of Commonwealth and State government blanket incentives to business, industry and people generally to live in these new regional centres; and, fifthly, the provision of adequate safeguards for the property rights of those people already living in and having already invested in the specific regional growth centres. 
On present indications, it is doubtful whether the proposed development of regional centres is on a scale sufficiently large and comprehensive to offer a significant proportion of Australia's people and industry a viable alternative to their establishment in one or two of the major capital cities. The Australian regional problem is characterised by the large disparity of population concentration between metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas. As at the census of 30 June 1971, the proportion of Australia's population living in urban centres of over 500,000 people amounted to 57.9 per cent, whereas the proportion of those living in centres from 10,000 to 20,000 people was 4.21 per cent. Thus the total proportion of our population in all centres from 10,000 people upwards at 30 June 1971 was 75.82 per cent. 
However, it is not necessarily this concentration of population in metropolitan areas which constitutes the regional problem. The manifestation of the regional problem lies in the economic costs, the environmental problems and the social problems which are the result of this population concentration. It must be our national objective to ensure that our largest cities do not grow at their present rate and to such a size that human endeavour within them takes too great a toll of time of the individual and of comfort and pleasure from living. Any attack on the problem of regional development should be directed to ensure that people who prefer to live in country towns or medium sized rural cities can do so without foregoing a reasonable range of employment opportunities and a fair share of social and educational opportunities found at present only in the major cities. 
As I have pointed out before, on present trends, Australia's population will increase by somewhere between 8 million and 9 million people in the next 28 years. On present trends 6 million of this increase will swell the populations of the 6 major capital cities. This prospect is an incredible proposition in the world's largest island continent. We have very large areas of relatively unexploited and unspoilt countryside suitable for modern town development. But even if one new city to accommodate 300,000 people were commenced each year for the next 28 years, only about 4 million people would be absorbed in these new cities by the end of that time and this would leave an additional 5 million people to be accommodated in the existing 6 capital cities. So, it is a matter of extreme urgency. It is a tremendous challenge to the Minister and the Government and to the Australian people to overcome that enormous problem. 
The second factor that I mentioned was Commonwealth-State and local government co-operation. I am satisfied that the Minister is showing a desire to reach this accord wilh the various authorities and if this is achieved, I am sure that he will get the sort of community co-operation that is necessary to make the whole program a success. Obviously the States, with all their good intentions with respect to decentralisation, have not had the financial resources to cope with the problem. They have the powers and undoubtedly the will and they have the contacts through their local government organisations to help bring it about but they have not had the financial resources at their disposal. But it is clear to me that the Government will be most likely to concentrate its efforts within a 150-mile radius of the existing metropolitan areas. These, of course, will be the Minister's system cities on the fringes of the existing metropolitan conglomeration. We will probably see about 10 such system cities developed over the next 30 years. 
Undoubtedly, the Labor Government will remain predominantly involved in the maintenance and improvement of the existing urban facilities in our 6 State capital cities. I am not an advocate of neglecting the needs of people living in the existing cities and of concentrating only on the creation of new cities away from the existing cities. I suspect though that the Labor Government will, because of pressure from the city electorates, give insufficient sustained attention to the financial needs of establishing new inland cities. Such an approach will not provide the balance that should be achieved to achieve the ideal of comprehensive balanced development. The only way in which a real impact on the problem of balanced development will be achieved will be by a joint CommonwealthState 4-pronged approach. The first prong should be the commencement on an annual basis of selected regional growth centres to accommodate up to 300,000 people each throughout Australia away from the existing cities; secondly, there should be metropolitan redevelopment to help overcome problems of population and environmental pressures in the major cities; thirdly, the provision of general incentives and subsidies to assist country areas to overcome their existing economic disadvantages to industry, commerce and investment and also the social disadvantages for the people; and the fourth prong is that State governments should be given every encouragement to continue with their selective support in country towns generally to maintain a healthy and viable growth rate in those towns. 
I believe that unless we have that broad, 4- pronged comprehensive approach, there will not be sufficient total impact on the ugly trend of development that has taken place in this country. I do not say that either of the first 2 prongs I mentioned is more important than the other; they both are essentially important. But the other 2 prongs of the approach could be overlooked in an approach to the total problem. However, I believe that the main thrust in any decentralisation program must be towards selected decentralisation. I do not disagree with the Minister in this respect, in spite of the political considerations and parochial jealousies that can be aroused. The fourth point which I should like to deal with briefly is the need to offer a range of incentives to attract industry and people involved in tertiary industries to those areas. We cannot simply move people from one centre to another unless there is some incentive for them to move. So, the centres must not only be designed to neutralise disadvantages - either social or financial - but, also, I believe, to go further they must be done in a carrot-like fashion. 
The other point that I want to mention before I conclude is the need to put people first once an area is designated. In the United 
Kingdom one of the greatest internal political controversies has revolved around the problem of new town development, because too often the new town development corporations have gone into an area and frozen land prices and ignored the problems of property owners and house owners for the sake of a total objective. The United Kingdom has passed legislation to overcome the human problems involved in progress itself. Of course, we are setting out to achieve a better style of life for people, but no section of the community or no individual should be asked to bear more than his share of the price involved. It is essential for both Commonwealth and State governments to recognise that requirement. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hansen)  adjourned. 
asked  the  Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Will the Minister fully investigate the desirability of giving the Commonwealth Film Unit independence by introducing a Bill to provide it with statutory status. 
Has the Minister examined the operation of the National Film Board in Canada which is a statutory body. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the growing demands of the members of the Commonwealth Film Unit for independent statutory status of the unit. 
I support the Bill. As the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has said, when  Mr Nigel  Bowen was Minister for Education and Science in October 1970, while speaking on a "Bill to amend the Australian National University Act he forecast that he would subsequently introduce an amendment to the Act to enable the control of traffic within the Australian National University. It is to the credit of the present Minister that he has brought this Bill forward so early in the session to provide the necessary powers to the Council of the Australian National University. The Bill gives powers to the University to makes statutes for the regulation of traffic and parking on the University site. More significantly it gives the University specific powers to appoint its own traffic officers to regulate access to the University roads. As the honourable member for Diamond Valley has so rightly said, it is essential to try to preserve the orderly environment of the ANU and to protect it from undue encroachment of traffic on the campus itself. This Bill empowers the University to set up parking meters, to make charges for parking, to tow away vehicles, to prescribe fines for traffic offences that are proved in a court. In cases of parking or stopping offences the Bill also empowers the University to fix a small penalty which offenders may choose to accept rather than undergo prosecution. I think this is a most desirable feature of the legislation. The provisions of a University statute will also apply to members of the public who are not connected with the ANU unless the statute provides otherwise. 
There is a restriction on the statute-making power proposed for the University and that is that its statutes will not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Australian Capital Motor Traffic Ordinance. This, of course, is consistent with the provisions which are already in force under the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act. Another important feature of the Bill is that it will, as I said earlier, secure the campus from overencroachment by traffic and thereby ensure reasonable traffic behaviour within the University grounds. As the Minister has rightly pointed out, he has responded to the wishes of the University Council to have power to control traffic adequately, to help with the orderly development of the campus and also to have day-to-day control of activities on the campus. The Bill ensures that traffic control statutes will be drafted in consultation with the Department of the Capital Territory. That is a most essential provision because it would be quite an intolerable situation to have the ANU Council prescribing laws that were not consistent  with the traffic code and traffic laws that operate within the city of Canberra itself. So naturally there has to be that degree of consistency even if it is only to avoid confusion that could occur if there were 2 different sets of authorities making laws at their own whim or will. 
The ANU Council will carry out its functions under this legislation from time to time. The actual drafting of the traffic laws will be undertaken by administrative arrangements and therefore no further legislative provision will be required. This is my understanding of the Minister's second reading speech. I suppose that the provisions that are made from time to time will be made in a similar fashion to the way in which the present Australian Capital Territory Motor Traffic Ordinance is handled. I conclude by saying that I commend the Minister for having brought this Bill into the House so quickly. I am sure that it will be very welcome by those connected with the ANU itself. I am sure that the University Council will be pleased that the Minister has introduced this measure to relieve the Council of some of the difficulties which it is experiencing at the present time. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, .upon notice: 
How many leases of land to Aborigines and Aboriginal groups were approved by the Minister for the Interior in the McMahon Government. 
Will he supply details of each lease granted to Aborigines, including the pastoral stations. 
Are there Aboriginal members on the Land Board appointed to hear applications from Aborigines 
What criteria did the previous Government use to determine the successful applicants for leases of land in the Northern Territory. 
Did the lease conditions and land laws applying to Aborigines differ from those applying to Australians generally. 
Has the Government issued an instruction stopping all further action on the land lease approvals to Aborigines made by the former Minister for the Interior. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that  Mr Adrian  Parmenter. recruited from the United States of America as an adviser on Aboriginal rights, has criticised the absence of Aborigines from the bodies which determine policies on aboriginal affairs? 
If so, does the Government propose to appoint any Aborigines as members of (a) the Woodward Commission and (b) the Council for Aboriginal Affairs; if not, why not 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. I was misrepresented by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  He implied in answer to a question from the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  that I had implied that I was opposed to the petrol price freeze in the Australian Capital Territory by expressing some concern about the ordinance that has been invoked in the Australian Capital Territory, the Prices Regulations Ordinance, to control petrol prices. I am not concerned principally whether the Minister's clumsy economic experiment on his Canberra guinea pigs works or not. Time will tell whether this economic experiment will reduce inflation or not. What I am concerned about, and what many others have been concerned about, is some of the provisions that apply in that Ordinance. It is not the Minister's fault but they do exist. 
I have been misrepresented because the implication was that I was opposed to the Ordinance because it freezes petrol prices. That is not true. I was concerned about certain repressive and regressive provisions of the Ordinance which the Minister has now indicated that he is prepared to rectify for the sake of human justice. 
I wish to devote most of my address in this debate to the decisions taken by the Government in implementing certain aspects of the Karmel report. Whilst the report is a result of probably the most far reaching survey yet conducted into the needs of education, it nevertheless strikes a mortal blow at approximately 10S top rating independent schools. Before condemning the Government's decision I want to make it perfectly clear that I in no way condemn the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  He has endeavoured to hold a line in justice to and in the interests of the education of children attending these schools. Of course on 30 May 1973 he made the statement that 'every school in Australia, including Geelong Grammar School, should receive a basic grant from the Commonwealth and that the Commonwealth should have an identity with the education of every child'. 
The action taken by the Government collectively to axe the 10S independent schools was taken 2 years earlier than was recommended by the Karmel committee. I believe this to be a vicious act of grave irresponsibility. Probably the most serious aspect of this cruel decision is that the Government has broken yet another election promise by agreeing to the phasing out of per capita grants to category A schools. The decision was taken in spite of a statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in a policy speech on 20 June 1972, assuming a bipartisan stance that new forms of aid should be an addition to existing grants. People were led up the garden path. It was a monstrous deception, and the Government knows it. 
One of the worst features of the Karmel report is that it does not examine the effect of the phasing out of government aid to category A schools. This is a shoddy aspect of what is a comprehensive report - a report that talks about equality of education and equality of opportunity for children. I cannot understand why - perhaps the Committee did not have sufficient time - no attempt was made to try to ascertain what damage would be done to the category A schools in the event of their being phased out, even over a 2-year period. Where will be the incentive for those category B, C, D, E, F, G, or H schools to improve their standards of education? It appears that under the Karmel use of categorisation of schools those schools which endeavour to increase efficiency or to improve teacher-pupil ratios, and schools where parents make the greatest sacrifices, will run the risk of going up the scale and losing Commonwealth aid. True, the non-systemic non-government schools will, under the Australian Labor Party policy receive the same total sum in recurrent grants as they did under the former Government, but the category system allocates these funds amongst the schools by a method regarded by most of the independent school authorities as obscure and unjust. Although the categories are thought to relate only to the allocation of recurrent grants, it now appears that this system will be used for the allocation of capital grants, even though the grants have been determined without regard to the capital needs of these schools. 
I understand that the index of recurrent resources was calculated from answers to a questionnaire from the Karmel Committee. Such a means of collecting data surely called for subjective judgments. In the short time available to the Karmel Committee, it is crazy to assume that an in depth, objective, factual survey was made. Very few schools were visited. The index of recurrent resources takes no account of the indebtedness of independent schools or of the capacity of parents to pay the higher school fees which result from this decision. The schools were told when the questionnaires were sent out that those questionnaires would not be used to examine individual schools; they would be considered in a collective sense. No indication was ever given that information gained in this way would be used in a definitive manner. 
The Karmel Committee is guilty of a breach of faith. It is guilty of basing its recommendations on information gained in a hastily subjective way. The Government must accept responsibility for this anomalous aspect of the report from the Karmel Committee. That Committee was given little time to undertake an objective survey into the number of schools which were to be axed and involved in this decision. The resources index crudely ignores the fact that the category A schools, mostly boarding schools, must necessarily have a higher staff-pupil ratio. This will cripple these schools which have served the needs of people living in country areas where often parents have no choice but to send their children to boarding schools. These parents do not pay high boarding school fees because they love to do so. These parents have no alternative in many cases. Yet they are treated in this shoddy manner by the Government. 
The decision by the Government is vicious and discriminatory against country parents and children who, in many cases, as I have said, have no alternative but to send their children to boarding schools. In many country towns schools offering full high school courses are not available. In some of these towns where there are high schools, there is not a range of choice of subjects adequate to meet the needs of students. Many of these schools do not teach languages. Hie Karmel Report and the Government, either deliberately or inadvertently, ignored the fact that in New South Wales, with the exception of two or three agricultural high schools, there is not a state school that has boarding facilities for children. 
Let us look at the so-called wealthy schools. One category A school, which I will not name, has an indebtedness of $650,000. A large proportion of the capital of one boarding school is devoted to providing boarding facilities for boarding houses and for furnishings, dining halls, kitchens, laundries, etc. That boarding school has 170 people on its staff. Of that number, only 70 are engaged as teachers. Without boarding facilities, no more than 80 of that staff would be required for teaching purposes. The action of the Government is brutal. It ignores the sacrifices that parents have made and are making in order to send their children to the boarding schools of their choice. I know many parents in my electorate who have made enormous sacrifices. Many of them have not paid boarding school fees for 2 years because they have not had a wheat crop. They will be paying those school fees out of returns from their next wheat crop. I know that these people do not have new cars. They have denied themselves holidays and they have- 
Go out there and see. 
 I know how many parents are in this situation and the sorts of sacrifices that they have made to educate their children. As a result of this report, fees will increase beyond the reach of many of those people. I know that enough of them will be bringing their children home from boarding schools halfway through their education. We see the illogical aspect of this decision when it is contrasted with the decision that university education will be free. That is a good decision. Yet, so called wealthy category A schools will receive no Commonwealth aid. Is it the intention to discriminate out of prejudice against the so-called wealthy schools or is it the decision to discriminate against the parents? 
I believe that this Government has a midVictorian concept of those who live in other than metropolitan cities as being part of some aloof colonial squattocracy. It is on this false premise that this misguided socialist regime has formulated its discriminatory policies and the Budget which takes away from, which robs, rural areas and rural people of $150m. It is an insult to their intelligence and to the job that they have done over the years to help to provide not only food but also export income for the development of this country. 
-Since speaking in the House on a statement by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  I have had a look at 3 Bills now before the Western Australian Parliament which were introduced by a Labor Government and which are designed virtually to transfer to the Australian Government sweeping powers with respect to land control, development and disposal. I see them as being a way around the constitutional limitations imposed upon the Australian Government which will enable it to get into the field of urban development. Although the Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Tonkin,  has shown some desire to retain control over the constitutional rights of the States, he has obviously wilted under the pressure of the centralist Government in Canberra. 
The new cities program, which involves the provision of $3 3m in loan moneys to the States, including $9.4m in repayable loans, to help develop Camden-Campbelltown, GosfordWyong and Bathurst-Orange is pin money and makes a mockery of decentralisation when weighed against the $150m grab from the country areas of Australia in this year's Budget. This virtually is a reallocation of resources from the private sector to the public sector and from the rural areas to the Labor strongholds of Sydney and Melbourne. We now see the socialist land grab policy that is fundamental to the achievement of the socialist objective. 
The 3 Bills before the Western Australian Parliament should serve as a warning to the other States. If the other States accept the socialist blueprint for Western Australia, we are on the way to socialist land monopoly and control from Canberra. I call on the New South Wales Government and other governments to reject the attempt by the Whitlam Government to take over control of their urban land - indeed, land generally. These Bills obviously are the result of collusion between the Tonkin Government and the Whitlam Government. They are an attack on individual rights in a democratic society. If they are proclaimed in Western Australia, the 
Labor Government in Canberra will control the new urban development in Western Australia and, I predict, ultimately land generally, including farming and grazing land, because the land commission will have power to designate any area in Western Australia. The actual powers are along these lines: The land Control Bill provides power to place specified land under government control. It provides power to resume all or part of any controlled land at any time the government wishes during the period the land is under control. It provides power to fix the price of controlled land according to valuation on a date which the government may specify. There is no right of appeal against resumption or against a control order. This not only attacks the rights of the individual but also could stifle the development of land. The Land Commission Bill will establish a commission to develop and sell or lease resumed land. 
The Salvado Development Bill will establish an authority to take over the role of local government in the area and that authority will be dominated by Canberra. I emphasise dominated by Canberra'. It is this aspect that troubles me most. If the Labor Government gets away with this, we will see Canberra controlling land for urban and other purposes in Perth. The corporation of these 3 commissions will not be responsible to the people of the area or to the State Government. In fact, it will be, in an indirect sense but in a real sense, responsible to the Australian Government. When one juxtaposes the 3 Bills one sees the real plot. The Land Commission Bill provides that the  chairman  will be nominated by the Premier to the Prime Minister and be subject to the Prime Minister's approval. Two other members of the 11-man commission will be either nominated by the Prime Minister or approved by the Prime Minister. The commission must report not only to the responsible State Minister but also to the Prime Minister. Why on earth should a State commission set up by State legislation have to report to the Commonwealth Government or to the Prime Minister if the intention under this legislation is not to superimpose the authority of the Prime Minister and the Commonwealth Government over land control? I suppose the excuse is that the Commonwealth Government is making a substantial allocation, although I do not regard $33m of loan funds as a substantial allocation. No doubt it is on that basis that it is argued that Canberra must exercise a control. What really makes the commission's role supremely subservient to the centralist socialist fountain of authority is that it must report not only to the responsible State Minister but also to the Prime Minister. 
Of course one supports measures to reduce the price of land to reasonable levels and of course the State governments have power at their disposal to implement and adopt measures to do just that. But I see this as a back door way for the Australian Government to take over the constitutional rights of the State governments to control the land resources within their States. I believe that we must vigorously oppose legislation superimposed upon a State which threatens the rights of the individual and establishes the centralist control of land in the hands of Canberra. 
I did not rise tonight simply to knock what the Minister is doing but to warn him and the States that there is a very dangerous element in his sort of legislation because ultimately it will create a centralist bureaucracy trying to control from Canberra land in Western Australia and Queensland, and even land at Bourke. Heavens above - I do not think that this would be in the best long term interests of this country. Of course there are ways of controlling land prices, and the States have those powers. I say let the States use them. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
Will he, in his plan to establish small child care centres in the Australian Capital Territory, make provision for the licensing of these centres and make arrangements for social workers and pre-school teachers to make regular visits to them. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many blocks in the (a) restricted and (b) unrestricted categories will be offered for sale by his Department in the Australian Capital Territory during 1973-74. 
How many blocks will be made available for (a) town houses, (b) detached housing and (c) flats during1973-74. 
Will this quantity be sufficient to meet expected population growth in the 12 months period. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
Is he now in a position to answer part (1) of question No. 247 regarding the sale of Government houses in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
How many people are on the waiting lists for Government (a) houses and (b) single, double and three bedroom flats. 
What is the average delay in providing those on the waiting lists with (a) a house and (b) a flat. 
How do these delays compare with the delays in previous years. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
Will he commission studies to ascertain a desirable optimum size in terms of population for Canberra. 
Does the Government agree that it should influence the growth rate in the Territory. 
Will he make public the Patterson Report. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Prices Regulation Ordinance 1949-1973 has no provision to allow a person or organisation wishing to oppose a price rise to appear at a hearing and argue his case. 
Do the declaration of secrecy provisions of the Ordinance prohibit the A.C.T. Controller of Prices from disclosing any submissions made to him and from publishing the reasons for any judgment he makes on prices. 
If so, how does the public ascertain the circumstances under which a price rise has been approved or refused. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has  Dr Kalokerinos  commenced his research into malnutrition matters among Aborigines in the Northern Territory as part of an International Collaborative Medical-Scientific Study on Malnutrition, Infection and Immunity. 
Did  Dr Kalokerinos  wish to undertake special research and health care activities among Aborigines at Yuendumu in the Northern Territory. 
If so, did he proceed with this work or were his efforts frustrated through lack of funds.  ©r Everingham - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Dr David Jose of the Research Foundation of the Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne is directing a study into malnutrition and infection and their effects on the immune response of Aboriginal children as part of an intenational collaborative study sponsored by the World Health Organisation.  Dr Jose  made an initial exploratory visiit to Papunya in July and is hoping to commence the detailed study in October of this year. 
No. But  Dr Kalokerinos  did make a submission seeking approval to do research on Aborigines at Papunya. However, to avoid duplication, and unnecessary expense,  Dr Kalokerinos  had agreed to continue with his original arrangements to participate in the Jose Study. This would also facilitate field investigations and specimen taking to be carried out under conditions which would ensure minimum disruption in the Aboriginal communities concerned. 
Funds are available. 
Intergovernmental Committee on European Migration  (Question No.  779) 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Is the partial demolition of Reid House proceed ing in spite of the union black ban placed on its demolition in 1972. 
Will any of the present Reid House site be used for car parking services. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that he has on several occasions failed to seek the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council's advice on Ordinances that have become law. 
If so, does he intend to downgrade the importance of the Council pending the implementation of a new form of local government for the Australian Capital Territory. 
Will he give an assurance that he will not ignore the elected representatives of 'the people of the Australian Capital Territory on the Council and that in future all proposed new Ordinances and amendments to existing Ordinances will be referred to the Council for advice before implementation. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What is the current operating loss on the Canberra bus service. 
What action is he taking to make the bus service a viable venture. 
Have any studies been completed by his Department to modernise and improve the bus service for the people of the Australian Capital Territory, if so, will he make the reports public. 
What action is he contemplating to improve the public transport system in Canberra to serve the widest possible needs of the people in this city. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What are the names of the street intersections In Canberra where most accidents have occurred during the last 18 months. 
What were the dates on which the intersections were completed, and the number of accidents at each intersection since the time of completion. 
Have there been any complaints to the Department alleging that danger existed at these intersections because of faulty design and lack of traffic lights during the last 18 months; if so, have these complaints been investigated and reported  on. 
Has he ensured that recommendations  for  improved warning and traffic lights are being implemented. 
How many alterations has the Department and the National Capital Development Commission effected since 2 December 1972. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is  he now in a position to answer my question 
No. 244 regarding the establishment of a Housing Authority; if  not,  why not. 
Firstly, I want briefly to reply to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on one point which might seem irrelevant. He made the comment that there was only one member of the Australian Country Party in the chamber. There were four present. I will not name them but on behalf of our Whip I want to put the record straight. 
On 2 December the Whitlam Government inherited an economy that was generally sound. The McMahon Government had steadied the rate of inflation from 2.3 per cent in the December quarter of 1971 to 1.2 per cent in the December quarter of 1972. The unemployment problem - largely due to a rural recession caused by low prices for many products, especially wool, in the overseas market place, a run of adverse seasons,  a  cost-price squeeze and other factors - was diminishing rapidly. The numbers of unemployed were beginning to fall significantly and more' job vacancies were being registered. This, in spite of the very dishonest prediction that was made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I well remember his saying that by February of this year there would be 200,000 people unemployed. He had no justification for making such a prediction. Nevertheless, he made it  do  doubt from other motives. 
This Government deserves the strongest condemnation from the Australian people for its deplorable handling of the Australian economy. A whole range of measures, including 2 unilateral revaluations of the Australian dollar and a stay-put revaluation against the United States dollar have damaged the terms of trade of exporters, including farmers, by at least 25 per cent against competitors in the United States and Canada. When the world demand-supply situation comes closer together; when there is no longer a shortage of foodstuffs and fibres on the world market, the exporters, particularly in the rural sector and in the mining sector, will feel the great pinch of this decision. 
Yes indeed they are, particularly in the mining industries.The recent further revaluation of the Australian dollar now means that we have revalued against the yen by 10 per cent - against the Japanese yen, one of the strongest currencies in the world. The full impact of the arbitrary 25 per cent across the board cut in tariffs, slugging principally the industries in decentralised locations and the industries that are highly labour intensive, has not yet been felt But undoubtedly as time goes by that decision which was taken without reference to the Treasury, without reference to Caucus, will have a very serious effect upon people and their jobs. 
It is all very well to say that we can shift people from one city to another or from one job to another, but do people want to be shifted about simply because a government decides to take an arbitrary decision such as this? No wonder there was a revolt in Caucus. No wonder the Caucus is starting to overthrow some of the decisions that have been taken by the 3 power men of Cabinet. Then we had the most inflationary Budget on record, followed by the biggest credit squeeze since the 1890s. Now we have interest rates reaching the highest level on record. In spite of the willingness of the Premiers to cooperate with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in combating inflation, the Prime Minister is ready to go to the people by referendum in order to snatch complete control over prices and aim central to the total socialist objective of this Government. 
The Government, through its own actions - its increased public expenditure, its increase in the Public Service, its extravagant measures and its complete economic irresponsibility - has led the Australian economy into a raging inflation rate of possibly 20 per cent per annum. It would not surprise me, and I do not think it would surprise the Treasurer, if the consumer price index or cost of living index figures for the quarter to the end of September show an increase in excess of 5 per cent. The Government has fed the fires of inflation. Has it fed the fires of inflation in a calculated attempt to create chaos and then to seize absolute power over the economy and the lives of the "people so that it can shift them from A to B and take control of their day to day activities, or is it just an inept, crazy government without any sense of economic responsibility? I leave that question to be answered by honourable members opposite and the Australian people generally. 
Since the Government was elected to office all its economic decisions have been directed to shifting men, women and resources from private industry and employment to the official government sector. This has not yet occurred, but the stage is being set for the takeover of the private sector. The erosion of the economic base of many industries, the collapse on the stock exchange, the uncertainties in the business sector and the brutal attack on the farmers in the Budget are all clear evidence of the Government's intention to strangle the private sector. Now the interest rate will rise, and this will hasten its demise. We will have the fiercest credit squeeze ever, with the highest interest rate in 100 years. This action will hit hardest the smaller businessmen, the comer storekeepers, the farmers and the little people in our community. It -will hurt them more than it will hurt the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. It will hurt them more than it will hurt the big industries which can absorb it. It is the little people who will be hurt most by this decision. This is the saddest part of this Government's performance. The people it purports to represent are those who will suffer the  most, 
Having created the worst inflationary spiral in years, the Government has now been forced to use monetary controls belatedly and with harsh application. The interest rate on loans and overdrafts is to rise by 1.75 per cent to 9.5 per cent per annum. The concessional differential to rural borrowers is to be abandoned so that rural producers, with a record debt load of more than $2,000m, will now be called upon to pay another price for the Labor Government's economic failure. This is in spite of the promise made by the Australian Labor Party before the last election. I refer to this magnificent little book 'It's Time'. We all got this in our letter boxes and we all remember it. It says. 
There is ample proof to show that high interest rates are imposing severe burdens on export rural industries, just as they are on other sections of the community such as young house owners. 
The Labor Party in 'It's Time'. It's time for the Labor Party and this Government to live up to the promise and to what it said to the people before 2 December because, quite frankly, the people in my area feel that they were led up the garden path. It's 'time for the Government to face up to its responsibilities. We saw introduced into this House a Budget that absolutely took from the country people more than $140m. I have not time to enumerate all the ways and means that were used to try to rape the pockets of the people in the country areas of Australia. Now we have the worst credit squeeze in memory. It is discriminating against the people in rural areas. This has happened when conditions in the country areas were beginning to improve after a disastrous rural recession due to low world markets and adverse seasons. When world markets improved the rural sector saw some hope of recovery. That was until the taking of these irresponsible measures that have been taken, with the credit squeeze on top of them. We undoubtedly will see the Government introduce a supplementary Budget. 
Sound economic management does require fiscal responsibility and a wide range of responsible actions. Unfortunately, all the actions to date have been directed at the private sector and the wealth producing industries. Growth in the economy depends largely on the extent of the economy's secular growth. This in turn depends upon the maintenance of substantial private investment. If private investment is restricted economic growth will be lower. This in turn will reduce the resources available to the Government to carry out its policy objectives. One of the great paradoxes of governments of the Left in capitalist societies is that more than any other type of government they need taxation funds from the private sector to implement their ambitious policies- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Since the Prime Minister has now stated that his primary objective, if he achieves price control powers, will be to control land prices in the States, how does he reconcile this statement with the dismal failure of his Minister for the Australian Capital Territory who has failed to stabilise prices and who in panic has cancelled all land sales for homes? Is the Prime Minister aware that building costs in the Australian Capital Territory are now the highest in Australia? Is he aware that land in unrestricted residential auctions was averaging $15,000 a block before the cancellation? If the Federal Government controls land prices in the States what guarantee is there that the Government will make a better fist of it in the States than it is making in the Australian Capital Territory? 
asked the Minister for the Nor  thern Territory, upon notice: 
When will he reconstruct the Northern Territory Legislative Council to provide for a fully elected assembly. 
What progress has been made with members of the Legislative Council in regard to constitutional advancement, giving more direct powers to the elected Members in respect of State-like responsibilities. 
by leave- Unfortunately, I have not really had sufficient time to look through the first statement by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant).  It came to me just a little too late. Nevertheless, I hope that at some future time the House will have the opportunity to debate the issues and the matters that are outlined in it. Of course, they come right back to the essential right of the Aboriginal people to have a choice in pursuing their culture or moving out into the wider Australian community. With respect to the second statement of the Minister, regarding Nola Brown, I say from the outset that I do not envy the heavy decision and the responsibility on the shoulders of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who apparently has been placed in an awful situation by overzealous legal aid service officers and others who obviously planned, to coin a phrase, the shanghai-ing of the little 7-year-old Aboriginal girl Nola Brown from her foster parents in Darwin to her biological parents at Maningrida. 
One must feel a deep sympathy for the little Aboriginal girl, the victim perhaps of a plan in somebody's mind. Nola, 7 years of age, was reared in the home and the environment of  Mr and Mrs Brown,  loved and cared for from her earliest babyhood, speaking English and walking in the ways of the foster parents and the little foster brothers and sisters with whom she grew up and played. Now she is plunged into a totally different society with her biological parents, not even speaking their language or sharing their customs and values at this stage of her life. One does not need much imagination to know the consequences, the suffering and the sorrow that the Browns must be enduring and the confusion that certainly must be confronting Nola particularly as the immediate excitement wears off and she suddenly gets a yearning to be back where she was loved in her own home in Darwin. 
One does not need much sense of humanity to question the role of the Legal Aid Service in this sad and sorry business. One does not need much imagination to foresee what will happen to any officers of the Minister's Department if they had a hand in this macabre affair. The Minister said, quite rightly, that if there was any complicity on their part heads would roll. We are indebted to the Minister for reporting to the House on the actions he has taken so far in good faith to investigate the sad circumstances of Nola's abduction. To my knowledge no requests were made to me for Nola's return to her biological parents whilst I was the Minister for the Interior. At that time the Department in Canberra was principally involved in policy issues and the Northern Territory Administration was involved in the day to day administrative matters. Such issues as fostering were left to the Northern Territory Administration and the Director of Social Welfare. In such cases the Director of Social Welfare operated within the bounds of the Child Welfare Ordinance and in particular, part V of the Ordinance. 
If the proper course had been followed in regard to Nola's case a children's court would have granted an order under section 36 (1) (b) of the Child Welfare Ordinance, which would have placed the child under the care of the Director as in paragraph (i), or in the hands of the foster parents as in paragraph (ii). If this had been done, the taking of the child back to Maningrida would be wrong under section 37(2)&lt;c). A court which makes an order can always revoke it. So the parents and indeed the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service which advises them could always apply to the same court to revoke an order under the Child Welfare Ordinance. 
However, I am at a loss to know the terms of reference of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. I checked to see what the terms of reference were of the Legal Service Bureau which is administered by the Attorney-General's Department and which advises retired members of the Services. Its terms of reference were set out in detail by the Attorney-General at the time in this Parliament on 14 September 1966. By contrast, the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service has been established with no terms of reference so far as I know. It is responsible to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and not to the Attorney-General. As I understand it, the fostering provisions of the Northern Territory ordinance are not unique but are similar to those in force in the States and the Australian Capital Territory. 
I pose the following questions with respect to the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service in the hope that the Minister may answer them at some stage: Firstly, can the Minister inform the House of the terms of reference of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service? Secondly, is there a relationship between the Legal Aid Service and the Council for Aboriginal Affairs? Is it responsible to the Council? Thirdly, was Nola Brown a child in respect of whom an order had been made under section 36 (1) (b) of the Child Welfare Ordinance committing her to the care of either the Director of Social Welfare and Child Welfare in the Northern Territory or foster parents? Were the foster parents entitled to the care of the child under the ordinance? Fourthly, is any action to be taken to enforce the order of the court? 
The sad circumstances surrounding the case of Nola Brown, the foster parents and the biological parents at Maningrida call for a full scale public inquiry. I do not believe it is sufficient to have some low key investigation by the Minister or by his good wife, who, I know, has had a very deep affection for the Aboriginal people and has given a great many years of her life to their cause. There is too much involved, too much human sadness, for this issue to be quietly forgotten by some form of low key investigation. I call on the Minister and the Government to establish a full scale inquiry into the Nola Brown case in the following terms: Firstly, the circumstances and the legality of Nola Brown's abduction from her foster parents; secondly, the foster parents' system as it operates in relation to 
Aboriginal children; and thirdly, the role of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service in this field and in general. 
I do not cast any reflection or blame upon either the Minister or this Government because quite obviously Nola Brown was fostered out to foster parents  6i  years ago. The Minister has inherited the situation. Perhaps there is something wrong with the fostering laws or with the way in which they are administered, but it seems to be a shocking indictment of the system when a situation like this can occur. In submitting the proposal I appreciate that everything may not have been right during the reign of the former Government. But how else will we have an impartial, objective investigation into this complex area of human concern so that mistakes like this may never occur again? If the whole exercise is based on a philosophical belief and recognition that Aboriginal custom is above Australian law, it raises a very serious question indeed. It represents a conflict between native family law and Australian law. I believe it to be divisive and racist in application to have 2 parallel systems of law in Australia. Just as the last Government tailored a general purpose leasing tenure for Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory, this Government must investigate sensible ways and means of avoiding in the future a recurrence of the circumstances that have enveloped Nola Brown and her foster parents. 
Under the provisions of the ordinance, if Nola's parents felt that they could care for Nola, it was open to them to go to the court with a view to changing that order. So there should not be a conflict between the Aboriginal customs and our laws in general. Our real concern should be for the welfare of the child and the right of the court to make a decision in such a matter. The court is the place where such issues need to be settled. I appeal to the Minister in the light of the circumstances that surround this case that both he and his Government consider throwing the whole issue of foster parents and the system that is operating in the Northern Territory and under Commonwealth jurisdiction open to a full scale public inquiry in the hope that no other child is victimised in the way that Nola Brown has been victimised. 

 Mr BRYANT (Wills- Minister for Aboriginal Affairs) - by leave -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have initiated steps for the necessary inquiries to be made into both the fostering situation and the possibility of a judicial inquiry into what happened in Darwin. I will make a further statement to the House when I am better informed about the matter. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the flexible multi-tiered decision-making and decision-deferring processes of the Government, has either the Cabinet, the appropriate Cabinet sub-committee, the Caucus Transport Urban and Regional Development Committee or what have you, considered the call by  Mr Pat  Hills, the Labor leader in New South Wales, for an international airport at Dubbo? In order to clear up public confusion about international airports, how many international airports does the Minister believe are required in New South Wales? It is the intention of the various decision-making machines of the Labor Government to consider not only the CanberraGoulburn area but also the Hills' suggestion of Dubbo? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Are members of the ACT Police Force patrolling Parliament House on 12-hour shifts. 
Is it a fact that during the night patrol, when temperatures are below freezing point, the officers have no heating facilities or shelter. 
Were officers who made makeshift heating devices near Parliament House ordered to remove them forthwith. 
If the position is as stated will the AttorneyGeneral make arrangements to ensure that proper sentry boxes are provided for the Parliament House police patrol. 
I intend to enter into this debate, but before dealing with the Bill there are a few matters that I would like to reply to in respect of the remarks made by the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby).  The honourable member referred to a recommendation that was made to me with respect to the acquisition of certain lands that were to be used for urban purposes on the outskirts of the city of Darwin. In my time as Minister for the Interior this recommendation was not implemented, for very good reasons. I think the Minister said that it was not implemented for various reasons. I would like at this point of time to inform the House, the Northern Territory and the nation of the principal reason why that recommendation was not proceeded with. At that point of time we were in the process of negotiations with Northern Territory Legislative Councillors on the question of constitutional advancement. We had made an offer to the Legislative Council to transfer executive responsibilities over a range of State-like issues, including urban land. At the time of the election this offer had not been debated either in the Northern Territory Legislative Council or by the Northen Territory people themselves. 
The Government supported the recommendation but it had not implemented it for that very reason I stated. 
I felt as Minister for the Interior that it was for the local legislature and the local people to determine whether they should accept the package that was offered for constitutional advancement in the Northern Territory. The offer that was made to the Northern Territory was a firm and a sound one. It offered an advancement towards statehood, which is something that the present Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  promised the Northern Territory prior to the last election. It is in black and white. The Minister for Northern Development on frequent occasions, to placate  Mr Ward,  I think it was- 
Yes, the Leader of the Labor Party in the Northern Territory Legislative Council. The Minister for Northern Development informed him that if there was a Labor Government elected the Northern Territory would get statehood. Yet after the election the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and, indeed, the Minister for the Northern Territory indicated that the Northern Territory would not get statehood. We have heard all sorts of expressions in this place about double standards. Where are the double standards? The Minister for the Northern Territory inherited a well thought through arrangement for the transfer of executive responsibility to the Northern Territory. 
No. I do not smile because we went through a long process of negotiation and discussion with members of all political parties in the Legislative Council and they had agreed to look in depth at this matter. Their reaction initially was very favourable indeed. If the Minister is interested enough to follow this through he can look at the joint Press releases that were issued at that time. So there was a genuine attempt on the part of the former Government to transfer executive responsibility across to the Northern Territory and to have a fully elected Legislative Council. But this has been deferred for various reasons, A reference has gone before the Joint Parlimentary Committee on the Northern Territory. I do not doubt that the Minister is trying to find a formula so that some executive responsibility can be transferred to the Northern Territory. I know that in the Australian Capital Territory he is trying to get a form of government that will be acceptable to the people of the Territory. We had not gone so far with the Australian Capital Territory as we had gone with the Northern Territory. I know the Minister would agree with that. But I would like to defend the honourable member for the Northern Territory who consistently has supported, both in the councils of the Australian Country Party and in the Party room, the concept of Senate representation for the Northern Territory. I have been opposed to the concept because I believe that the Senate is a States house. Of course it is a States house. Here is the Minister for the Northern Territory, a lawyer, a lawyer of great distinction- 
Here is a lawyer of great distinction screwing his face up and ignoring the fact that the Senate is a States house. Of course it is a States house. To try to slip other Senate representatives into a States house by this rather clandestine way I think is destroying the whole concept of the Upper House of this Parliament. It has been for those reasons that I personally have been opposed to the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory having representation in the Senate. When the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory get the equivalent of statehood, when they have their own legislatures and when they have responsibility for their State-like responsibilities, such as urban land and so on, I think it will be time enough to look at the situation. I believe that this Government has had double standards with respect to the Northern Territory. It has established a department of the Northern Territory in Darwin - we admit that - but the fact of the matter is that the administration of the Northern Territory has been fragmented among no fewer than 10 Ministers and 10 departments. 
Yes, and the people of the Northern Territory do not know to whom they should go or to which Minister they should go in order to have some of the big problems of that vast Territory resolved. 
Let it not be forgotten that the towns and cities of the Northern Territory have the fastest growing populations in Australia today, even outstripping Canberra. Why did that happen? It was because of consistent policies that were implemented by successive Liberal-Country Party governments for 23 years; that has put the Northern Territory into a position where, in the not too distant future, it will be able to take its place in the federation of Australia. I am sure that the Minister for Northern Development 
No, the Minister for Northern Development -  Dr Patterson.  He must be very disappointed indeed with his own Government for not having honoured a promise that he made - in good faith, I have no doubt - to the people of the Northern Territory. I take great exception to the Minister for the Northern Territory referring to the Australian Country Party as the rump because I believe that he did not say it in the nicest way. Nobody can deny that there is a rump in the Australian Labor Party and one of them - the Minister for Immigration (Mr Grassby) - is sitting on the other side of the table. He is part of the rural rump. I believe that the cheeks of that rural rump of the ALP must be blushing red at present because it has had a lot to overcome in trying to hold rural seats against a government that has shown a great disinclination to support the people of the rural areas, let alone those in the Northern Territory. So, I believe that the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory has engaged in a rather spiteful and quite unnecessary attack upon the honourable member for the Northern Territory and upon the Country Party. I think it is a case of the pot calling the kettle black. 
I rise tonight to express my complete concern at the way in which this House has been conducted by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  this evening. I cast no reflection whatsoever upon the Chair, but I cast a lot of reflections upon the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who has deliberately avoided debating an issue which has been of tremendous importance to the State of New South Wales. 
He misled the House yesterday. He used the gag to end the debate on a matter of public importance yesterday. There was a further debate today in relation to fuel and the brown coal industry in the Latrobe district. The House was given an undertaking that it would debate that private member's motion until 12.45 p.m.; but as soon as the Minister for Minerals and Energy saw the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  go to the table the debate was gagged. He has been most evasive in answers to questions, and the revelations that have been made tonight indicate the reason why. I want to read out the letter which he wrote because I think the people have a right to know. I have a photostat copy of a letter signed by the Minister for Minerals and Energy, which reads: 
I write to confirm - 
The letterhead states: 'Minister for Minerals and Energy'. It is addressed to  Mr A.  S. Reiher.  Deputy Chairman,  Snowy Mountains Council, P.O. Box 850, Canberra City. 
The date is 24 September 1973. The letter states: 
Dear  Mr Reiher, 
I write to confirm the direction I conveyed to you by telephone at about  4  p.m. yesterday to the effect that the Snowy Mountains Council should operate the permanent works of the Authority in a manner that does not run counter to the intentions of the 35 Hour Week Committee unless, in so doing, the personnel associated with the Snowy Mountains Scheme, and/or the equipment and permanent works of the Authority, are endangered. 
F. X. CONNOR 
R. F. X. Connor, the Minister for Minerals and Energy. The point is that the Minister has used his statutory authority to support the 35-hour week co-ordinating committee in New South Wales and to try to stop power going into the system in New South Wales. He was not concerned with the interests or the welfare of the people of that State. He was using his position in spite of the fact that at a Press conference on Tuesday the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave an assurance that the Australian Government would not intervene. The Minister for Minerals and Energy did this in spite of the fact that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said that he did not believe that now was the time for a 35-hour week. The Minister for Labour told the Prime Minister in this House that he could not have it both ways. I just want to touch briefly, on the dispute in New South Wales. It is clear that the people of New South Wales - and the people of Canberra, for that matter - are about to become the victims of one of the worst political and industrial intrigues in the history of the State of New South Wales. 
After nearly 2 years of exhaustive inquiries the New South Wales Industrial Commission recommended to the Askin Government that there was no justification in the power generating and power distribution industry for a 35-hour week. The Government accepted this recommendation. Earlier this year we had a power blackout, during which time thousands of people - in fact, millions of people - in New South Wales and elsewhere were inconvenienced. People lost their jobs; shortages were created; costs rose; building materials particularly were affected by that stoppage, making homes more expensive for the average home owner. The Askin Government conferred at length with the Labour Council. The Labour Council in New South Wales has lost control of this situation because of a left-wing intrigue in New South Wales trying to take over the power industry in New South Wales. 

 Sir Robert Askin was told by the union leaders that if the Industrial Commission had examined the case of the power generating employees as a separate issue it would have been a different story. The New South Wales Government bent over backwards in agreeing to refer the single application to the Industrial Commission. The Industrial Commission then studied this fresh application for a 35-hour week in the power generating industry as a separate issue. In a 35-page report the Commission rejected the claim. Now these militant union leaders will not accept the ruling of the umpire for the second time. The workers control movement has threatened to take over and take control of the power generating stations of New South Wales. It appears that not only are they going on strike but also the strikers are going to take over the power houses of New South Wales to prevent any executives, or indeed anybody, from generating power. If this is to be the Labor Government's blueprint for the interests of the welfare of the people of this State then God help Australia. 
Obviously, we are seeing an industrial blackmail by these unions in New South Wales, supported by the Minister for Minerals and Energy using his authority under the Act to stop the generation of power if it conflicts with the co-ordinating committee's objective of a 35-hour week. I pose this question because of the confusion that is being created by statements from the Minister for Labour, the actions now by the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the statement on Tuesday by the Prime Minister: Is the Labor Government falling apart or is it trying to create confusion amongst the Australian people so that it can completely socialise industry in this country by a backdoor method? For 2 days the Minister for Minerals and Energy has duck-shoved and has tried every device, with the aid of the Leader of the House, to avoid the questions and to avoid the truth in this issue. The truth has come out. The Minister for Labour is the only one who has any brains at all. At least he is honest. He told the Prime Minister that he could not have it both ways. He told the workers of this nation that now was not the time to seek a 35-hour week, but he has been stabbed in the back. 

 - Mr Speaker, I would like to- 
Motion (by  Mr Hansen)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
In view of the high rates of livestock loss and damage to property in rural areas of the Australian Capital Territory, caused by thieves and vandals as well as by workmen on the Tuggeranong development, will he (a) provide rangers and police patrols to protect the property and livestock of rural residents of the A.C.T. from thieves and vandals and (b) ensure that the rights of rural lessees are respected by surveyors, planners and other workmen employed on the Tuggeranong development. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development; upon notice: 
Has the Government finalised the acquisitions of the 18 properties affected by the water to be stored by the Googong Dam, if not, why not. 
Is he now able to answer parts (2) and (3) of question No. 414; if not, what is the reason for the delay. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
Will the Government pay rural lessees in the Australian Capital Territory interest on the amounts owing to the lessees between the dates of withdrawal of their leases and the dates of settlement, having regard to the long delays that are occurring between these dates. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to his reply to my question No. 445 (Hansard, 31 May 1973, page 3070) seeking a report on the progress of discussions which were initiated in 1972 among relevant departments to examine the need for low-cost accommodation for students in Canberra, will he confer with the Students Union to ascertain if the students agree with the interdepartmental conclusions. 
Does the Government agree that Reid House should be demolished to provide additional parking space in the light of the interdepartmental conclusions regarding the need for low-cost accommodation in Canberra. 
-Firstly, I sincerely thank the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and present Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  for all the courtesy he showed to me and generous assistance he gave to me in relation to the representations I made to him on behalf of the Aboriginal community in my electorate. We have had a number of projects going in Mungindi, Moree and Dubbo, particularly with respect to the Dubbo Police-Citizens Boys Club, and we have been making great progress. I hope that I receive from the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  the same sort of courtesy and the same sort of co-operation as I have received from the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I liked the former Minister's style. Right from the outset he wrote to each of us members of Parliament personally and asked us to forward to him any ideas and thoughts we had about the Aboriginal populations in our electorates. I am sure that most members of both sides of the chamber took the opportunity to supply him with advice on the local scene. So I regarded it as rather ironical, indeed almost an act of cruel cynicism, that we commenced to debate yesterday the estimates, as enormous as they are and as unprogrammed as they are, for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs because it was yesterday that the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  was, to use a pretty crude term, axed. I do not gloat over this cruel fact of life. Indeed I feel a great deal of sympathy for the Minister. I have never at any time questioned his sincerity or his intense interest in Aboriginal welfare.  His  sincere concern became apparent to me from the time I entered this Parliament.  His  sincerity of approach I think was something of an example to most of us on both sides of the House. 
It is true to say that no Minister of Government has approached his task with more zeal or more energy than the honourable member for Wills. He may have trodden on a few corns. He may have unnecessarily tangled with a few people, especially the Premier of Queensland regarding the Torres Strait Islands sovereignty dispute. He may have sent his wife to Maningrida to uncover the truth of the sad Nola Brown case, probably because he trusted his wife more than he trusted officers of his own Department who, according to  Senator Georges  in another place, had sold him down the drain. I believe that the Minister has had a raw deal, whether one agrees with his policy approach and his method of attack on the problem of advancing the Aboriginal people. I wonder whether there is any credence to the story that he was rolled because he fell foul of his Department and the  Chairman  of the Council of Aboriginal Affairs. This view is gaining more support every hour. 
Mir HUNT - True,  Dr Coombs.  Only last night in another place a Government  Senator had  this to say: 
It has not been  Mr Gordon  Bryant who has failed, it has been the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the advisers to the Department who have failed. 
He said that  Mr Bryant  was not the first victim; the previous Minister in the McMahon Government was the other, namely  Mr Howson. Senator Georges  went on to claim: 
Unless drastic reorganisation is carried out the new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will be the next victim. 
He continued: 
The whole field of Aboriginal affairs has developed into a disaster area littered with failures and the expenditure of large sums of money, which have been spent with questionable results. 
He further claims that the permanent head of the Department,  Mr Dexter,  deliberately frustrated the decisions of his Minister and in fact worked for and succeeded in obtaining his removal.  Senator Georges  went on to say: 
I regret to say that the  Chairman  of the Council of Aboriginal Affairs,  Dr H.  C. Coombs, cannot escape some of the responsibility. 
These are serious allegations and charges made by a senator, who has been working in close association with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I give some support to the view that was expressed by another senator at the time, that there surely is a need for a very deep inquiry into what is taking place within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and within the Council of Aboriginal Affairs itself. If these allegations are true, how will we help the people that the Australian community, I believe, is determined to assist? lt is true that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is taking over the control of and the responsibility for the welfare of the Aboriginal people, lt will be through that channel that most of the administration will be undertaken. I believe that the matter calls for a royal commission. I believe that the whole issue needs to be aired in the open in the interests of the Aboriginal people that the Australian community is setting out to assist. I add my criticism to the way in which the Department of Aboriginal Affairs operates as a department. It is true that enormous sums of money are allocated to the Department. However, there is little evidence - indeed there was little evidence last year - of any programming in the spending of those funds. It is all right for a department to be allocated great sums of money but when public funds are being expended surely there must be a program for the expenditure not only in the interests of the people we are trying to help but also in the public interest as a whole. 
These are the serious and fundamental criticisms which I level at the appropriations of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Although there is an appropriation of $89,326,000 for this financial year, which is a substantial increase on the previous year, there is little evidence of a program of expenditure. Therefore, the Department will approach its expenditure in an ad hoc fashion. This leads to irresponsibility in the handling of public funds, but worse still it can leave the door open to the misappropriation of those funds for which the authorities should be accountable to the public as a whole. Whether a government spends money on pensions, on industry, on welfare or on Aborigines, the department concerned should program its expenditure so that it accounts for its actions. Such a loose method as that which has been employed here is not good enough for the Aboriginal people and indeed for the nation as a whole. 
I believe that the Minister became alarmed at the weakness of his Department when it was agreed on 4 September that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs would take over the responsibility for the housing of Aborigines in Victoria. Yet, 22 days later,  Mr Dickie,  the Victorian Minister concerned, received a letter from  Mr Bryant  requesting Victoria to resume responsibility. Was the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs concerned that his Department would not be able to cope? Or, worse still, is this further evidence of the Department and the Council of Aboriginal Affairs dodging administrative responsibilities, avoiding responsibility and blame for any failures that may occur as a result of the implementation of its policies, many of which may be quite unreal, impractical and indeed fantasy-like. 
The former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was a very dedicated Minister. I would not say he was the most dedicated Minister because the man who was the most dedicated Minister the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is sitting behind me at the moment. The time has come in the light of the crisis which has occurred when the Government should set up a royal commission to inquire into the conduct and activities of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and indeed the Council of Aboriginal Affairs itself. I would hate to see another Minister stepping into the trouble that has obviously befallen the former Minister. If the allegations of  Senator Georges  are correct this is a very serious thing for the Government and the nation as a whole. 
I should like to devote myself for a few minutes to the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory. In so doing I extend wishes for a happy reign to the new mayor of Canberra, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  who is at the table. I am sure that the former Minister for the Capital Territory would concur with me when I say that it is not an easy task to administer this portfolio. Canberra is the fastest growing city in Australia, excluding Darwin which I think is now increasing at a greater percentage rate. There are very great problems in the ACT, particularly in the areas of land allocation and distribution, and of housing and the allocation of housing. I know that the former Minister has had a great deal of difficulty in trying to arrive at a formula that would give the greatest number of people access to the small parcels of land available without doing a great deal of injustice to those who were in need. I sympathise with the former Minister. I recognise his problem and I recognise too that the present Minister has a big problem to solve. 
He inherits a new land and housing policy. The former Minister,  Mr Enderby,  announced a policy to try to overcome the problems. I am sure that the present Minister will have to adjust that policy from time to time to meet the changing needs. One of the worst aspects of the present land and housing policy in the ACT as I see it is that a home seeker will now not be able to enter into a contract with a builder to build a home according to his own requirements and standards. This is how I read the policy and I hope it is not the case. If it is the case, I hope that the Minister will be able to amend the policy to give people an opportunity to deal with a builder privately once they get a block of land and that they will be able to build a house according to their own specifications. 
There are many areas throughout the statement produced by the former Minister which cause me concern. These comments are restricted to the proposals-dealing with the single unit residential lease allocations. Before dealing in detail with the statement it should be understood that I certainly, and I am sure my Party, wholeheartedly support the aims of providing leases at minimum cost to needy and young people. The reduction in lease premiums and the elimination of land shortage has been the greatest single problem in the ACT. The shortage of land has caused the great escalation in land prices. It is fair to say that the former Minister inherited a problem from the former administration and that sufficient funds were not made available to turn off sufficient land to meet the needs of the growing population. Obviously some administration at some time will have to muster the courage to determine the size to which Canberra should be allowed to grow. Once that decision is taken, measures must be taken to ensure that the growth rate does not outstrip the program. A shortage of supply compared to demand has certainly contributed to the escalation of prices and to the crisis that has been on our hands. 
One of the ways of overcoming the immediate problem would be to engage private developers, under the strict control of the National Capital Development Commission, to complement that body in turning off a greater number of building blocks. This was tried in the Northern Territory at Darwin by calling tenders for a developer to turn off a number of blocks to try to complement the supply of land in Darwin. I commend that suggestion to the Government because there is an alarming shortage of land. The Minister will have to contend with a serious problem until that is overcome. 
One of the worst features of the new policy is that it eliminates the freedom of choice  by  the lessee of a builder, as he must negotiate with the builder who has been allocated the site in which he is interested. It eliminates competitive tendering. It discriminates against the employment of architects by those who wish to employ them and to gain the benefits associated with their employment. It produces a situation conducive to corruption, where a builder allocated prime land can negotiate additional payments undisclosed to the review board. It increases the amount of capital and paper work between the producer and the consumer, thereby increasing costs. It eliminates the right of the individual to build his own house if he is qualified to do so. In the event of the builder being allocated poor land, for which there is little demand, construction standards will suffer in order to produce a cheap job that will sell readily. There is no control to ensure that at this critical time the lease is held by persons living and working in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I believe that there are a number of ways in which some of the problems here could be overcome. I put these forward on my own behalf. I do not commit anyone in my own Party to them. A program to house the needy and underprivileged should be defined and initiated because, although we talk in terms of need, as far as I know the needs qualification has not yet been defined adequately. I am sure that it will have to be defined properly in order for it to achieve the purpose for which it was designed. Leases or government houses should be allocated to first timers who satisfy a means test otherwise similar to that at present proposed. The 5-year usage conditions should apply. For those who wish to live and work in the Australian Capital Territory but do not qualify in the above category, leases should be allocated by auction and not limited to first timers. The 5-year usage conditions should apply. Having satisfied the demand by making available sufficient developed land for individuals wishing to take up leases in the above categories, a further group of leases for freelance builders obtained by auction, either singly, in groups, or in large development neighbourhoods, should be made available. The development leases should be sold only to persons who satisfy the 5-year usage condition. After a proper balance has been achieved and the present critical situation eased, the requirement for the 5-year usage could be relaxed in the former category. 
I just put forward those thoughts in the hope that the incoming Minister and the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory might give some consideration to them. I do so constructively and not in any destructive sense, because I recognise that there is a very great and real problem here in the Australian Capital Territory with respect to the provision of land and housing to meet the current level of demand. I hope that the Government will see fit to look at the prospect of making land available to developers by tender in order to assist the National Capital Development Commission in turning off a larger number of serviced blocks of land to help overcome the problem and so to relieve the incoming Minister of one heap of -worry. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)-  1 call the Minister for the Northern Territory. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - No. The honourable member will have an opportunity to speak, but the Minister may speak at any time during the Committee stage. 
I am very pleased to see that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and the Government have seen the sense and the wisdom of accepting an amendment which will in fact make the redistribution to be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory consistent with a policy that has obtained in Australia since Federation. It is all very well to talk in terms of one vote one value but this is a very hackneyed phrase. What does the phrase 'one vote one value' mean? We would reach a position of one vote one value only if a redistribution was made immediately after a census was taken and if we were able to ensure that no one moved in or out of an electorate. 
That is so. It would be impossible to achieve the objective of one vote one value unless an election was held on the day on which the census was taken. So this talk about one vote one value is a lot of nonsense and I am pleased to see that even those who were doubting- 
The Minister for Secondary Industry, who is also the Minister for the Northern Territory and the Minister for Supply says that it is the principle. But there is a great difference between a principle and what is practical. In real and practical terms it is not possible to achieve a practical situation of one vote one value. 
We have argued this matter in the House on numerous occasions. I do not want to delay the House in going over old ground. But no one can say that the principle of one vote one value applies in respect of Senate representation. Under the Constitution each State is represented by 10 senators. Where is there any relevance of the principle of one vote one value in the Senate where the voters of Tasmania have the same number of representatives as the voters of New South Wales? So let us forget all this pie-in-the-sky theory. It is all very well to go out and tell the people that the present system - the system that has operated since Federation - is wrong. 
That is quite true. The Labor Premier of Western Australia makes a lot of mistakes, but he is not a real idiot. He knows the practicalities of the game. There is not a country in the world that has achieved the principle of one vote one value or applied it in practice. 
That is right. I want to pay a tribute to the Minister for Services and Property who is sitting at the table. Although he is very hard on the Australian Country Party from time to time he has shown wisdom that becomes him in accepting the amendment which now makes the number of representatives in the Australian Capital Territory consistent with that of the rest of Australia. 
A redistribution is to take place in Western Australia. I am willing to wager a bet now that the next Federal election will not be undertaken on new electoral boundaries. I forecast that the next election will be undertaken on the 20 per cent margin that now applies. I do not regard myself as a great prophet, but I see the writing on the wall. It is true that a redistribution will take place in Western Australia and new boundaries will be drawn up in that State and also that another seat will be created in the Australian Capital 
Territory. But no matter when the next election is held it will be carried out on the old boundaries under the old system. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Firstly, I should like to make it clear to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  that in speaking to the Schools Commission Bill, the Australian Country Party in no way condemns him, or for that matter his Government, for the genuine attempts that he has made to try to improve the standards of education in Australia. We have some criticism of some of the ways in which the policy direction has been taken. We do not oppose the establishment of a schools commission. The Government certainly went to the people with that proposal in its platform and it was made clear that this proposal would be adopted. It can be truly said that the Government has a mandate to establish such a com mission. However, the Australian Country Party supports the amendments foreshadowed by the Opposition spokesman on education, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  principally because we are anxious to ensure that the Government carries out that spirit of the Minister's intention as stated in his second reading speech where he said that the States will retain responsibility for administering their own educational programs but will have available to them greatly increased funds for this purpose. That is perfectly true. The States will have greatly increased funds available for the purposes of education. But in our judgment it is very important to ensure that the States continue to maintain the direct responsibility for the administration of education. I feel that the amendments give greater substance to the Minister's expressed intention. 
There has been little adverse reaction in the community to the proposal to establish a schools commission. There have been serious objections raised as to the extent to which the Australian Government should determine how funds granted to the States should be spent. I know that there are arguments for and against this principle. But after all, we are living in a federation of States. We have a Federal system of Government and there are great difficulties once we try to impose upon the States a machinery that could in some way take away from them any degree of flexibility in their own administration. 
If this was against the wishes of the States, I do not think it was right. Frankly, 2 wrongs do not make a right. Often in our zeal to try to do the best job possible we can overlook the desires and the aspirations of the States and those who have a primary responsibility at the grass roots level for putting into practice the function of education. No one will deny that the States have needed the additional funds that are provided for them under the terms of the recommendations of the Karmel report. No one will argue that the Minister has failed in his task of pumping the urgently needed additional Commonwealth resources into education. No one would want to rubbish the work of the Karmel Committee. Whether one disagrees with aspects of its recommendations or not, it is a very creditable effort which was done in the shortest possible time available. I think great credit goes to the Committee for what it did in surveying the needs of education in Australia right through the breadth of education, including the needs of disadvantaged and handicapped people in the community. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  was critical of the former Minister for Education and Science for what little the previous Government had done to try to improve migrant education and the education of handicapped children. I remember the former Minister for Education and Science and the former Minister for Immigration,  Dr Forbes,  setting about the establishment of a task force to inquire into the needs of migrant education. Also, a considerable amount of work was done by the former Minister for Education and Science to improve the general standards of education applying to handicapped children. He was looking at the need to provide special facilities for teachers to teach handicapped children. Thus it is rather an unfair criticism to have made of the former Minister for Education and Science, who was making great strides in the field of advancing the needs of education generally. 
It would be wrong and not in the best interests of education generally if the Commonwealth Government, or the Australian Government as the Government wishes to have itself known, should assume any form of centralised control or direction. Indeed, it is probably more important in the field of education than in any other field to have greater decentralisation and local autonomy. Although attempts have been made recently in the States to decentralise or to regionalise administration of education I am not so sure that sufficient has been done to achieve the local autonomy that is necessary in the field of education. For instance, I believe there is too much rigidity in the curriculum among schools within the various State boundaries. There is insufficient vocational training in secondary schools and insufficient opportunity for students to undertake study in subjects which equip school leavers to go into worth while jobs in their local environment. 
In my own electorate of Gwydir we have a great number of Aboriginal children, many of whom are now starting to flow into the high schools. But unfortunately the subjects that are available to them do not always help them to adjust themselves to the local community in which they wish to live once they leave school. There is not enough pretechnical training in the education system to equip those people who do not necessarily have the inclination or the ability to go to university. I believe there has been too much emphasis on the need for students to attain university level qualifications. So I believe that as the system now rests there is an even greater need to have more flexibility in the curricula available within schools from region to region. la my own home town of Moree, for instance, from time to time we have a great shortage of plumbers, electrical engineers and motor mechanics. The building industry has to import a great number of its tradesmen. Yet at the same time we are seeing a drift of young people after they leave school away from the town of Moree to the cities and elsewhere to find employment or to pursue further educational levels. 
I think it is absolutely essential for schools within the States to have a more diverse and more flexible approach to the educational needs of our children. I believe that if this were so we would not have so many dropouts, drug takers, hippies and others who have not been able to make the grade in their school because of the tailor made type of curriculum available. Far too many parents are putting pressure on their children, wanting little Johnny and Mary to be university students. If he or she does not become a university student Johnny or Mary feels a failure. Yet Johnny could have a great future as an electrical engineer, a plumber, a painter or a builder. I wonder what our schools are in fact doing to try to get the 'best out of our children. I do not think that we are doing enough in the field of vocational training. I throw this into the debate here this afternoon for the reason that I believe that as education is structured in our society at the present time there is not enough decentralisation. I would hate to see the establishment of any system that would tend to centralise and perhaps make the function of education even more rigid. This leads rae to support with great conviction that part of the amendment which seeks to insert in the Bill the following words: 
The functions of the Commission are to inquire into, in co-operation with the State Departments of Education and .the independent school authorities,  and furnish information and advice to the Minister and to the State 'Ministers with respect to, the following matters: 
The whole purpose of the amendment really is to ensure that the Minister's stated objective is in fact put into print so that the real objective that he outlined in his second reading speech is actually tied into the Bill itself. Another worthwhile amendment is the amendment to clause 4, which seeks to substitute the following sub-clause (2): 
The Commission shall consist of a Chairman, who shall be the only full-time member, and two other members to be appointed directly by the Minister, seven members to be selected from a panel of ten to be nominated by the Australian Education Council- 
I am sure that this would be a way of assisting the Minister to get the names of the best people who are available throughout the length and breadth of Australia. What a good way, in a good team spirit, to try to get the right people on to the Commission. The amendment goes on: four members to be selected from a panel of seven to be nominated by the independent school authorities-- 
The independent school authorities would not put up anybody who would not be worth while. Undoubtedly they would seek to nominate to the Minister the best people who they thought could serve their own interests and the interests of education generally. The amendment goes on: and one member from a panel of three to be nominated by the Australian Committee on Research and Development in Education. 
If the Minister accepts that as the criterion under which appointments shall be made to the Schools Commission I am sure that he will never regret having chosen this method. To some extent it takes the blame away from him if he should choose in his own way the wrong man for the job. It puts the onus on the community through its various representative organisations and through the Australian Education Council, which consists of State Ministers for Education. The onus rests upon them to play their part in nominating the personnel who are to play an important role in the direction of the commission itself. I do not doubt the Minister's sincerity, but if the Government is sincere in its objective to get the co-operation of the States and is sincere in its objective to get the co-operation of the States and is sincere in the objective that was stated in the Minister's- second reading speech that the States will retain responsibility for administering their own education programs, the Minister will see the wisdom of accepting the amendments moved by the honourable member for Wannon. It would take away the doubt that I think lies in clause 13 (1), which states: 
The functions of the Commission are to inquire into, and to furnish information and advice to the Minister with respect to, the following matters:- 
The establishment of acceptable standards for buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff and other facilities at government and nongovernment primary and secondary schools in Australia-- 
Standards acceptable to whom? 
Would the honourable member like to answer the question or would the Minister? 
The honourable member for Casey is trying to take the words out of the Minister's mouth. 
 When the Minister says acceptable standards' does he have any concern for whether they are acceptable to the State Departments of Education as well? Is that consideration an important one? 
I thank the Minister for making that point clear. I am sure that the Minister, though, would have no real objection to the amendment. No doubt, if he does, he will have his chance to explain why he would be opposed to the provision in the amendment which underlined the need for complete cooperation with the State Departments of Education, which reads: 
The functions of the Commission are to inquire into, in co-operation with the State Departments of Education and the independent school authorities, and furnish information and advice to the Minister and the State Ministers with respect to, the following matters: 
I ask the Minister to give serious consideration to that principle. Whether that wording is to his satisfaction perhaps does not really matter but the importance of that principle needs to be embodied more strongly in the Bill than it is at the present time. The Bill gives the impression that only token consideration is being given to the requirements of the various State Departments of Education. It lends weight to the body of criticism that has plagued the concept of the schools commission for the last 2 years, and that was that once it was set up we would see all power with respect to education centralised in Canberra. I believe thatthe Minister in his own heart and in his own mind does not intend this to happen, but who is to know how long the Minister will be in charge of this portfolio. I believe it is absolutely essential for him and the Government to give serious consideration to the amendments that have been moved by the honourable member for Wannon, which are designed firstly to ensure that the Minister is helped in the choice of membership of the Commission and, secondly, to ensure the necessary degree of co-operation between the Australian Government and the States in the operation of the Australian Schools Commission. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Jenkins)  adjourned. 
This matter of public importance is not raised in any way in the spirit of party politics. I hope that the tenor of this debate will be objective and constructive in the interests of the Australian 
Aboriginal community. However, the circumstances surrounding the dismissal of the Minister for the Capital Territory, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  from the portfolio of Aboriginal Affairs has given rise to serious allegations and has brought into light certain matters which should be of grave concern to the House, to the Government and indeed to the nation. In another place  Senator Georges  made this serious allegation among others: 
I  undertook certain work . . . which convinces me that the permanent head ...  Mr Barry  Dexter, deliberately frustrated the decisions of his Minister and in fact worked for and succeeded in obtaining his removal. 
He continued: 
I  regret to say that the  Chairman  of the Council for 
Aboriginal Affairs,  Dr H.  C. Coombs, cannot escape some of the responsibility. 
These are serious allegations and to my knowledge neither the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs nor the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has satisfactorily refuted these serious allegations made by  Senator Georges.  It is now strongly rumoured - indeed on Federal File' last Sunday it was implied - that the  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs was responsible for the sacking of the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It was also suggested that while the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was unable to discuss with the Prime Minister matters relating to the turtle farming project in the Torres Strait, the Prime Minister nevertheless discussed the matter with the  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. 
To my knowledge neither the Prime Minister nor the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has denied these serious allegations. If these allegations are true the Prime Minister has been responsible for a very serious act of injustice against his Minister. In such circumstances it is not the  Chairman  of the Council who deserves condemnation, but it is the Prime Minister. Undoubtedly the Prime Minister will make this position clear to the House. If these allegations are false, let the Prime Minister deny them and the allegations that have been made by  Senator Georges.  Until the allegations concerning the Council for Aboriginal Affairs are cleared up there remains the very real question whether the relationship between the Council for Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs undermines the basic responsibility of the Minister to the Parliament. 
It is untenable that the  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs should have direct access to the Prime Minister and be able to interpose himself between the Minister responsible for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Prime Minister. Such an arrangement can lead only to confusion at the permanent head and ministerial level. In practice it must lead to the undermining of the basic ministerial responsibility of the Minister to the Parliament. The tenor of a letter from the permanent head of the Department to the  Chairman  of the Council- 
The matter has been referred to the Privileges Committee so I think that we should leave it there. I turn from that for a moment to the other broader issues involved. But before I do so I want to make the point very clear that if this practice is occurring it is not the fault of the  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs or the Council itself; it is the fault of the Prime Minister and the Government. Surely if the Council for Aboriginal Affairs is to remain in its present form it should be directly responsible to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
In view of the decision - I think a wise decision - that was taken recently to set up a national advisory council for Aborigines one would be forgiven if he deduced that the Council for Aboriginal Affairs is redundant. Turning to the broader issues that are involved in this matter of public importance, I make it clear that I understand the overwhelming difficulties confronting those who in all sincerity seek to better the lot of our Aboriginal people. I in no way condemn or criticise the amount of money that was made available in this year's Budget in an endeavour to advance the Aboriginal people. In no way do I question the sincerity, the purpose or the zeal of the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs who approached his task and his portfolio with unusual energy and dedication. I saw something of this in my electorate when I had occasion to make numerous representations to him. I know that the Aboriginal people in my electorate will forever remain indebted to him for the work that he did on their behalf. Nor do I question the dedication of the officers of the Department and its permanent head. None of us on this side of the House is any less convinced of the need to take positive action and to spend money to help overcome the difficulties of Aborigines and to enable them to take their proper place in the Australian society. But we must seek to ensure that the funds are spent wisely on projects that are approved by Parliament and accounted for to Parliament. 
I submit that this is not now happening. In his speech on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill, the Minister for the Capital Territory incorporated in Hansard a number of tables of proposed expenditure. Table 6 discloses that $1.5m will be spent on legal aid for Aborigines. On 25 September the Minister, in his earlier and happier capacity, made a statement about Nola Brown, the Aboriginal child brought up from the age of 2 weeks in a European home and sadly abducted in Darwin and taken back to her tribal parents in Maningrida, whom she did not know. The Minister said: 
I have initiated steps for the necessary inquiries to be made into both the fostering situation and a judicial inquiry into what happened in Darwin. 
The Minister undertook to make a further statement when he was better informed. So far this has not been forthcoming. But we read in yesterday's newspapers that a  Mr Ryan  of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service was removed from his post. It is now apparent that the abduction was engineered by an officer of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. On that day, 25 September, and again later I placed a question on the notice paper seeking from the Minister the terms of reference of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. This question has not yet been answered. The Aboriginal Legal Aid Service has always been something of an enigma. 
It is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The Government's administration of Aboriginal advancement are the words used. 
'and the Government's administration of Aboriginal advancement'. 
I have. You were reading a novel or something. I did indeed. That shows how much interest you are taking in the debate. 
Thank you very much,  Mr Speaker.  The Prime Minister has succeeded in taking up 3 or 4 minutes of my time. I hope he has enjoyed it. No one seems to know to whom the Aboriginal . Legal Aid Service is responsible but it has an appropriation of Sl.Sm. I pose another question in the light of the Nola Brown case: Does the Service seek to give legal aid in the Northern Territory within the law as we know it or does it seek to operate under tribal law where it is believed that some part of our law conflicts with tribal law? If the answer to the latter question is 'yes' then until the law is changed this Service is acting outside the law. I know of no proposal before the Parliament to change the law. I also sought information by way of a question on notice as to whether Nola Brown had been placed with her foster parents by a court order. This question also remains unanswered. If Nola Brown was abducted in defiance of an order of the court, very serious issues arise as to the functions of the Legal Aid Service and the provision of funds for its operation. One would think that before Parliament provides the Legal Aid Service with $1.5m it would need to know whether the money is to be spent according to the law. 
Then, of course, we come to the very serious allegations about the turtle farms and the companies established to run these farms. These allegations brought issues to the light of day which are matters of serious public concern. They were made by a Government senator in another place. They were all the more serious since they came from one who was appointed as a director of one of the companies. He should know the facts. Unfortunately, the Parliament, the people, the taxpayers, have not yet been told the facts. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has assured us that certain papers will be tabled in another place. So far this has not been done. We are also told that the whole project is being investigated by an outstanding world authority on turtle farming. While one could not doubt the expertise of this gentleman one can question whether the investigations will be directed towards whether there has been enough control over the expenditure of taxpayers' money. This gentleman's investigations undoubtedly will not ascertain whether the heavy expenditure on the Woden Valley complex, for instance, has been sound investment or reckless expenditure. Indeed, the appointment of an expert at this late hour to investigate the viability of the project after enormous capital investment has been made underlines the fact that inadequate planning was involved from the commencement. Surely this development heralds a problem and warrants an inquiry. 
The turtle farming example could lead one to believe that other projects are doubtful. There is some truth in  Senator Georges'  allegation that a disaster area littered with failures in the field of Aboriginal projects is developing. Table 6 to which I referred earlier shows a proposed expenditure from this account of neraly $4m. Who is controlling this expenditure? Has it been programmed or will it be spent on some brainwave project without proper assessment? Are these failures fair to the Aboriginal people? Will they give them the confidence that they require? Is this state of affairs fair to the Australian public generally? Is it fair to start off ill-conceived projects and hand them over to the Aboriginal people and sit back and watch the failures develop? Interestingly enough, the table also shows a marked increase in the proportion of funds spent through uncontrolled channels and a decrease in the proportion of funds spent through controlled channels. The enormous increase in expenditure shown in the trust accounts is equal to one-third of the amount made available as grants to the States for welfare purposes. In the housing area, for instance, $17m is being allocated to the housing associations whereas $13m is being allocated to the State housing commissions which provide a very efficient means of expending money for housing purposes. 
Then there was the allegation of a Government senator in the other place that all 4 senior officers of the Department have been appointed by the permanent head without prior advertisement, ls this allegation true or false? One wonders whether these questions are only the tip of an iceberg. I firmly believe that a royal commission should be established to inquire into the whole area of Aboriginal welfare and administration. The new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has promised to table certain documents relevant to the turtle farming project. Unless they provide adequate explanation of the allegations made by the senator I will call for a royal commission into this matter myself. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many serviced blocks were being held or stockpiled in the Australian Capital Territory by either the National Capital Development Commission or the Department of the Capital Territory as at 7 September 1973. 
How many serviced blocks will be available for release for building purposes either by auction or other means by 30 September 1973. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
In view of the deep consideration that was given by the Government in choosing Galston as the likely site for an international airport and the consequent public concern over airports in the Sydney area, will he take steps to move the Royal Australian Air Force Base from Richmond to Narromine, New South Wales, which has served the RAAF so well in the past. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. He will remember an answer he gave to a question from the Leader of the Australian Country Party concerning a written undertaking given on 15 December 1972 by the former Department of the Interior to Queensland Mines Ltd. I ask the Prime Minister whether it is correct that the Department of the Interior was in existence on that date and whether  Mr Barnard  was Minister for the Interior in the first Whitlam Government. Did the  Deputy  Prime Minister authorise the letter to which the Leader of the Country Party referred last week in which assurances were given that 'in the view of the assurances given by the former Government' the renewal of the exploration licences from 1 January 1973 would be granted subject to certain conditions? I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that a letter written to  Mr P.  R. Stork, the Manager of Queensland Mines Ltd, dated 15 December 1972 stated in part: 
Dear  Sir, 
I have discussed with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister foi the Interior the matters raised in your letter of 8 December. 
In view of the assurances given by the former Government and the expenditure incurred by your company I am authorised to assure you of renewal of exploration licences from 1 January 1973 and of the grant of leases subject to the following conditions: 
The letter is here if any honourable member wishes to see it. Is the Prime Minister aware of this fact? Was he aware that the  Deputy  Prime Minister had given  Mr George  Warwick Smith, who was the Secretary of the Department at that stage, authority to write that letter? 
I give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 10 I shall move: 
That, in the opinion of this House, a royal commission should be appointed to inquire into and report on the operations of the Council for and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
That, without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the commission should consider and report on the following specific matters: 
The extent to which the operations of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs undermines the principle of ministerial responsibility to Parliament for the functions of the Department. 
Whether the programming and expenditure by the Department, and in particular expenditure on the account of the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account, the Aborigines Benefit Trust Fund and the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises is responsible to the Minister. 
Whether such programs, projects and requests for assistance are properly considered and controlled. 
Whether the programs and proposals for expenditure are adequately scrutinised by the Department and Treasury. 
Whether the expenditure and the completion of programs and proposals are adequately supervised by the Department and by the Auditor-General.  (0  Pursuant to the above the commission should report on: 
the affairs of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd and Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd, and 
properties purchased for or by Aboriginal communities with particular regard to whether the purchase price was higher than the official valuation. 
The operation and functions of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. Pursuant to the above the commission should report on the circumstances surrounding the removal of the child Nola Brown from the care of her foster parents with a view to determining whether an officer or officers of the Legal Aid Service acted, or advised action, contrary to law. 
The circumstances in which 4 senior officers of the Department (referred to in the Senate on 9 October 1973) were promoted without prior advertisement. 
Whether under the present composition of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs, it is competent to advise the Minister and the Government on matters concerning Aboriginal custom, law and opinion. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that workmen are causing damage to livestock and property on Tuggeranong Station which is being surveyed for the development of the new town of Tuggeranong. &lt;2) Is it also a fact that the lessee of the property had had two stock horses, one valued at $1,000, shot dead, has lost three cows, and that at least forty sheep have been shot in the hindquarters. &lt;3) If the position is as stated, is the lessee of the property regarded as a trespasser and are these actions deliberately designed to frighten the Mccormack family off Tuggeranong. 
Firstly, 1 support the soundly based and soundly worded amendment moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  whose judgment and aesthetic sense of values are now impeccable and beyond reproach. Admittedly, the Minister has changed his mind. I give him full credit for having changed his mind and having written to each one of us telling us why he has changed his mind. Of course, he has changed his mind undoubtedly because he has done his homework. He has had occasion to look at the background of this matter and the early plans that were drawn for the national capital - the original concept of the late Walter Burley Griffin. The Minister also has had an opportunity to discuss with the city planners, the National Capital Development Commission, the reasons why the new and permanent parliament house should be sited on Camp Hill rather than on Capital Hill. 
I want to add some emphasis to a paragraph in the Minister's amendment. Paragraph (a) states:  action should be taken forthwith to initiate the planning and design of the new and permanent Parliament House. 
I think most honourable members would agree that there is a great need for urgent action and decision to be taken so that the National Capital Development Commission can get on with the job of planning and actually building a new and permanent parliament house. I think I am right in saying - the Minister might correct me if I am wrong - that it will take 8 years actually to plan and complete the construction of stage I of the new and permanent parliament house. 
That is on Camp Hill. 
That is right. We are thinking in terms of 20 or 30 years into the future. The whole sense behind staging the construction on Camp Hill in accordance with the original concept as laid down by Walter Burley Griffin, and the whole purpose behind the Minister's thinking, undoubtedly is that if we stage the construction we will be able to proceed forthwith, using the resources of the existing Parliament House and gradually moving some of the resources of the existing Parliament House into stage I of the new building when it is constructed, and then to proceed with stage II and stage III. If that line of action were followed it would not disrupt the normal activities of the Parliament. Secondly, it would enable much earlier construction and completion of a new and permanent parliament house. 
In spite of the recent expenditure of $2m on extending the existing building which houses the Parliament, it is clear to all of us that there still are not enough facilities and room in this 
Parliament House to serve the needs of the members and the people who have the job of servicing the Parliament. Members are cramped into ridiculously small offices with barely enough room for filing cabinets and with insufficient typing facilities. I share a typist with 17 other members of Parliament, having to queue up on occasions to get my typing done. I see our typists overworked, overloaded, using old typewriters - not even electric typewriters for that matter. 
 Thank you very much,  Mr Speaker.  I am very pleased to hear that. 
This is true. The honourable member for Robertson put his finger right on the pulse when he said that the public would laugh. Indeed, I think the public has a degree of contempt for the way in which we have allowed the facilities to deteriorate here in the national Parliament. The Parliament is supposed to service the needs of the Australian people. Only yesterday I was astonished to look over for the first time some of the space that was available in the printing office downstairs. People who are working in this building are working under great handicap and difficulty, and so there is a great and urgent need not only to start with the construction of a new and permanent Parliament House at the earliest opportunity but also to build sections of it that will relieve some of the pressures on the people who are trying to work in this building. When Parliament is in session something like 1,200 people are working in this Parliament House. There would not be a second rate business in Australia that would be trying to operate and conduct its affairs in the way in which members of this Parliament and the staff have to operate. So we have to look for ways and means of ensuring that we adopt a sensible course for the long term and a course of action that will enable the quickest possible result to get the Parliament House into  a  position where it can service in a tidy and orderly way the needs of the people of Australia. I certainly would not contemplate any further extensions or additions to the present building to try to overcome the immediate problem. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  quite rightly expressed some concern that if we built on Camp Hill the grassed areas going up to Capital Hill could be used for some other purpose. He mentioned their being used by public servants. I understand that when the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  was Minister for the Interior an assurance was given - I think a motion was carried to this effect in this House - that if the new and permanent Parliament House were to be built on Camp Hill the Capital Hill area would be reserved as a grassed area. I think it was a good point that the honourable member for Blaxland raised, and we should make sure that if a decision is taken to build the new and permanent Parliament House on Camp Hill, Capital Hill always will be reserved as an open grassed area. We should never allow any other building to be erected there. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has indicated to me that if we are to proceed with the building of the new Parliament House on Camp Hill, and if a decision is made in the next week or two at a joint sitting of both Houses in favour of Camp Hill, stage 1 would be completed by 1980, 6 years away. So that is the choice. We either start now and complete stage 1 by 1980 or think into the future of a new and permanent Parliament House going on to Capital Hill, to be finished probably by the year 2000. I do not think that either we members or the Australian people should have to wait so long for an adequate building to house the functions of Parliament. In the Walter Burley Griffin plan the centre of the city of Canberra is the parliamentary triangle, which he intended would house all the departments of government, with the Parliament House on Camp Hill. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the luncheon adjournment I was referring to the opinion and the plan of the late Walter Burley Griffin to which reference has been made. Evidence presented to the Parliamentary Joint Statutory Committee on Public Works in 1923 showed that Griffin consistently advocated the siting of the parliamentary building on Camp Hill. In many of his reports he expressed the view that Capital Hill was unsatisfactory for this building. Surely we should show some respect for this wonderful architect and planner who gave birth to the concept of the Canberra plan. 
 I must reply to the honourable member for Corio because I think it would be quite ludicrous to have the Parliament House on the Lake site almost adjacent to the High Court and the National Library. I certainly opt for Camp Hill. Griffin opposed the building of the provisional Parliament House in front of the site on Camp Hill shown on his plan for the permanent Parliament House. Camp Hill was shown as the site for Parliament House in Griffin's last amended plan of 1918. In 1925 this site was included in the statutory plan of the city of Canberra and its environs. Griffin's design of the parliamentary triangle used Camp Hill as the natural and functional climax to the parliamentary group of buildings. In Griffin's view Capital Hill is unsuitable for a permanent parliamentary building. A satisfactory treatment of the crown of Capital Hill was seen by Griffin as no more than a series of steps and ramps. 
The triangle has its apex on Capital Hill and is bounded by Commonwealth Avenue, Kings Avenue and the Lake. It includes the land access running from the summit of Capital Hill to the summit of Mount Ainslie. The Camp Hill site has access to the internal road system which also serves the National Library, the High Court, the National Gallery, yet to be built, and government offices. Points of access to Camp Hill are available also from the major avenues and State Circle. The existing road pattern of central Canberra is based on the original Griffin plan concept. The current plan for metropolitan Canberra envisages a reduction of traffic pressure on the central area road system by developing town centres, expanding the metropolitan area, and progressively developing peripheral parkway systems connecting town centres and Canberra City. 
By adopting a staged process for the construction ofa new and permanent Parliament House, it would be possible to provide stage 1 by December 1979. Final stages could be completed when financial circumstances permitted. I do not know the approximate cost of stage 1 but when I was Minister for the Interior---- 
 That was the figure I was given last year. This cost is possible only if Camp Hill is the site of the new and permanent Parliament House. This site would provide not only an opportunity for early alleviation of accommodation shortages but also an excellent setting for Parliament House within the parliamentary triangle. An area of some 55 acres would be available as a grand forecourt to Parliament where people could assemble, gather and camp for reasonably short durations in order to press their cause, as the Aborigines who are camping on the lawns opposite Parliament House are doing at present. Of course we want an open space in front of Parliament House for people to assemble or gather. If a decision is made in favour of Camp Hill, we will see the completion of a design competition and construction and occupation of the new building by 1980, whereas completion and occupation of a building on Capital Hill site will be more like into the dreamtime of the year 2000 or hence. The obvious advantages of the Camp Hill site and the points of view that have been set out by speakers in favour of the Camp Hill site, I am sure, strengthen the argument for making an early decision that will allow the construction of stage 1 of the building - concurrent with the use of the existing Parliament House - by 1980, thus enabling the Parliament to move into satisfactory and more spacious accommodation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
If Fourth Division public servants obtain the 16 per cent salary increase as supported by the Minister for Labour, what will be the additional wage and salaries bill to the Commonwealth and the taxpayers in general. 
The Opposition and the Australian Country Party support the Bill. Several speakers have dealt with aspects of the Bill with a view to drawing the attention of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  to certain grey areas in the Bill. The honour able member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  drew attention to certain clauses but principally to clause 21 and clause 29 with respect to the discussions that are likely to take place within the tribunal itself. I think that some of the comments and contributions that have been made by speakers on both sides of the House are worthy of consideration, by the Minister. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  claimed that the .Bill was designed to produce a revolution of access to education. I think he has not exaggerated that aspect of the Bill. However, there are other social impediments which rob young people of equal opportunity to education; Many of these have been canvassed but I want to emphasise one aspect not often discussed, that is, the failure of the school system to provide sufficiently diverse opportunities for students not necessarily suited to receive education at a university, a college of advanced education or a teachers college. 
For too long educationists have given insufficient emphasis to vocational and technical training in secondary schools. With an overemphasis on university and academic careers, parents and students alike are hopefully looking to universities, colleges of advanced education and teachers colleges as the big career openings for young people. Such an attitude ignores the increasing need for technicians and other skilled tradesmen in our increasingly technological society. There is an urgent need to re-assess the needs of our society and the education opportunities of our young people if we are to provide a fulfilling future for the ever-increasing number of school leavers. There is a need to upgrade the status of our technical colleges to ensure that an increasing stream of suitable students flows into the technical colleges which should provide the widest possible curricula for students. However, this change in direction should begin in high schools long before the higher school certificate level. 
Although there is a growing degree of local decision-making with respect to the curricula and general management at the local high school level, there is an even greater need for teachers on the local scene, the parents and the local community generally to play a greater part in determining the subjects available to pupils in high schools. These subjects surely should have some relevance to the local employment opportunities for school leavers. One must assume that equal opportunity does not exist for all students if it is the prime intention of education authorities, parents and others to structure the conduct of schools and the curricula at the schools on the hope that most students strive to enter either a university or some other tertiary institution. Obviously this just cannot happen because the majority of students have neither the aptitude nor the intellectual ability to succeed in these institutions. Far too many students are dropping out at the school certificate level, a great percentage of whom could succeed at technical colleges. The abolition of fees at universities, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges will not in itself make much difference to the opportunities available to our young people if we fail to recognise the aptitude of our students, the diverse abilities of students and the changes brought by the technological age. Until the status of technical colleges is improved by the provision of more finance or. more balanced curricula and the introduction of a full range of pre-employment classes, it is unlikely that there will be in a real sense equal opportunity for our young people. 
We could well study the Vocational Training Act 1958 in Japan and its consequences. Extensive provision is made in Japan for close co-ordination between the programs of technical and vocational training by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, and training organised within industry. In Japan technical education and training for the purposes of developing skilled workers and technicians has been built upon two main pillars, firstly, education at technical schools being under the control of the Minister of Education and, secondly, education at vocational training centres being under the supervision of the Minister of Labour. The trend of national socio-economic development is changing rapidly from the industrial era to the technological era. Increasing provision must be made for vocational training and technical education not only at the latter end of secondary education and after completion of the equivalent of the school certificate but also in the earlier years at high schools. 
It is now becoming evident that many students pass through the fifth and sixth forms acquiring a reasonably good education but unfortunately they are not trained for any specific vocation. Therefore, it would appear that at least from the fourth form upwards career courses should have a greater proportion of vocational weighting introduced into the curriculum. It would also appear that there should be a greater involvement by the Department of Labour at Commonwealth and State levels - certainly at the State level - in helping to shape the pattern of education in the future. I in no way detract from the expertise and ability of the Departments of Education which have developed a close relationship with industry over the years. Special emphasis must be given to the needs of young people in country towns if we are to stop the drift to the cities. It appears that although the education system provides a good general education to fourth form, it then becomes very restrictive in its discipline for students who wish to remain in the educational environment but who are not necessarily interested in seeking a university degree, or even sixth form standard for that matter. 
I turn my attention to the thousands of school leavers in country areas who will not go to universities, colleges of advanced education or, under the present set up, technical colleges. I turn to those young people who will go into the unskilled labour pools or drift to the cities for jobs and opportunities. Most country towns are similar in many respects, and an example of a reasonably progressive town would be Gunnedah. I mention this in no parochial sense but as the subject of a case study which I have made. Gunnedah could be described as having a service town environment but as a town where industrial growth patterns are not evident with two exceptions, namely, the local abattoir and the re-emerging coal mining industry. In a recent survey conducted at the Gunnedah High School statistics were obtained from the present fourth form students. The children were asked to indicate whether they were certain to remain at school or whether they possibly would remain at school on the completion of their school certificate. The total enrolment in the form was 195. Only 28 boys and 30 girls, a total of 58, said that they were certain to remain. A total of 28, comprising 10 boys and 18 girls, said that they were likely to remain. The total of both categories was 86. 
From these figures it becomes evident that 109 of the present fourth form students will leave school at the end of this year. To this number can be added students in the third form who will leave school because of their complete failure throughout the system. Also there are the fifth and sixth formers who will leave school before completing the higher school certificate course. The questions which every socially responsible citizen must ask himself are these: What employment do these 109 students find? What can be done to arrest this movement of approximately 56 per cent of Gunnedah High School fourth form students? In other words, can the system be changed so that these people will be trained to acquire a skill? What are the economics of such an idea? These questions need to be taken into account especially by the State authorities and certainly by the Commonwealth as a result of its involvement in the field of education generally. 
I refer now to the concept of a transitional course, and I would like to advance this idea. I have already advanced the idea before the inquiry into technical education and I hope that it will be given due consideration. My concept of a transitional course is one which offers full time instruction for one or two years, which would place students in these courses on a vocational strand of education, the completion of which would provide a student with a certificate of competency in a particular vocation. An obvious criticism of this is the belief that practical experience, that is, job experience, must be associated with employability. There is probably some truth in that belief, but the trend presently developing in education institutions is in the other direction. With the exception of the University of New South Wales, tertiary institutions in New South Wales and in particular colleges of advanced education are supplying the employment market with graduates having no grass roots experience whatsoever. Examples which come to mind are accountancy and management. There appears to be no reason why a young man or woman trained at a school or technical college for one or two years to acquire skills in a particular vocation cannot be as fully competent as a tradesman, technician or clerk after one year of job experience as would be an accountant after one year of job experience following the completion of his academic course. The experience of the United States seems to confirm that premise. 
An example of this method is the present procedure of training day secretarial students for one year and then placing them on the employment market. In Gunnedah, such girls are eagerly sought after by employers, who recognise the fact that whilst these girls may have a certificate of proficiency it will probably be a number of months before the girl becomes job experienced. A problem which obviously must be overcome is that of financing these courses. But with the introduction of greater assistance from the Commonwealth Government in the payment of fees for full time courses at universities, technical colleges and so on, this problem would appear to be minimised. 
The development of such courses will need to include within the curriculum the introduction of a study of humanities such as the English language, history and the social sciences. This would be an essential part of any of these courses, be they trades, certificates or any other type. One of the criticisms of technical education courses at the present moment is the lack of a well balanced curriculum. It is important to stress that the public must recognise these transitional courses as a satisfactory alternative to the present 5th and 6th form strand in New South Wales and the equivalent in the other States. 
Apart from the technical training competency gained from the courses, they must also aid in the social development of young men and women. For too long technical college students have been denied the opportunity to become articulate in anything except the narrow corridor of their particular vocation. Such courses must be developed to provide a well balanced personality as its end product. 
At present, the Department of Education in New South Wales offers a number of preemployment courses for those seeking entrance to a skilled trade. The courses provide full time training for students, enabling them to enter employment with some ability in the basic skills of the trade. The courses and their respective colleges are as follows: Bricklaying is taught at Randwick, Wollongong and Newcastle; cookery courses are conducted at East Sydney and Canberra; gypsum plasterboard fixing is taught at Granville; hairdressing is taught at Sydney and Granville; and prenursing courses are conducted at Randwick. Some country colleges also are operating such courses, the selection of the college depending on the demand for a particular course. The point is, however, that the demands on such courses are not particularly apparent because the departments of technical education and the various education authorities have not given sufficient emphasis to these courses in the present high schools system. With the correct approach to parents and high school students, such courses can be seen to be an attractive alternative to the fifth and sixth form strand. 
I also firmly believe that more emphasis should be given to such subjects as industrial management, personnel management courses, trade union administration courses and industrial relations. At a time when we are looking for increasing productivity, better industrial relations and better management of labour and resources, more emphasis should be given to special courses at technical colleges in these important areas. It is just as important for management to understand the needs of the work force as it is to mobilise resources for profit. It is just as important for the work force to know what are its entitlements and responsibilities to management as it is for the work force to understand the needs of management. Unfortunately, in New South Wales expenditure on technical education has declined relative to expenditure in other areas of education. This seems to me to be one of the great paradoxes of our time in the field of education. The whole community gets disturbed and upset about industrial chaos, strikes and lack of productivity, but what are we doing in the field of education to try to make our young people more aware of the needs of the work force and the problems of management? 
I believe that a lot of our industrial problems and a lot of the division that exists within our community are derived from the failure of the education system to make our young our community are derived from the failure of industry. I believe that this will continue while insufficient emphasis is given to vocational training and technical courses and the importance of technical colleges. While the Australian Country Party supports the abolition of fees at universities, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges, it believes that vocational training and the upgrading of technical colleges will give greater equality of opportunity to the thousands of secondary students with their diverse skills. Let us face it: A very the capacity, the ability nor the desire to attend ing secondary school today will have neither the capacity, the ability nor the desire to attend either a university or a college of advanced education. But in most instances these young people will have technical abilities and qualities which they must have an opportunity to develop. I believe this would be in the best interests of the community at large and that it would overcome a lot of the problems of child delinquency and many of the problems we see around the countryside of young people having to leave their home town for employment in other parts of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs purchasing land for Aborigines off reserves in accordance with the terms of the Lands Acquisition Act. 
If not, what methods of acquisition have been adopted. 
Will the Minister provide details of  all  property and land purchased by the Government for Aborigines throughout Australia, giving the names of the vendors and the buyers and the amount paid  for  each property. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Government now proceed to service the 61 applications from Aborigines for exploration licences over areas on Northern Territory reserves. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the report from the Woodward Commission of Inquiry into Land Rights, on what basis will the Government now proceed to provide land for the Gurindji at Wattie Creek (Dafuragu). 
Will people of tribal origins, other than Gurindji, living at Wattie Creek be able to share in the land obtained for the Gurindji. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many leases for pastoral properties for Aborigines in the Northern Territory were either approved or in the process of examination by the Minister for the Interior in the McMahon Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say whether the platform of the Australian Labor Party at the time of the 1972 General Elections stated that Aboriginal land rights shall carry with them full rights to the minerals of those lands. 
Can the Minister also say whether the platform was changed at the Surfers' Paradise Conference to provide for all Aborigines jointly to share the benefits from the development of natural resources including minerals on Aboriginal land. 
If so, has the provision in part (2) be accepted by the Government. 
If it has been accepted by the Government, does this involve any change in the terms of reference of the Woodward Committee or was the attitude of the Government changed in anticipation of the Woodward Committee's recommendations. 
Does the Government now accept that mineral rights should be held for all Australians equally. 
Can the Minister say whether the Council for Aboriginal Affairs has endorsed the formula in part (2). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When may a reply be expected to question No. 318, in the name of the honourable member for the 
Northern Territory, as the question relates to a Commonwealth public servant whose position purports to be protected by the Public Service Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the terms of reference of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. 
Is there any relationship between the Legal Aid Service and the Council of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Will he thoroughly investigate the activities of the Legal Aid Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Was Nola Brown a child in respect of whom an order had been made under section 36 (1) (b) of the Child Welfare Ordinance committing her to the care of (a) the Director of Welfare or (b) foster parents. 
If so, were the foster parents entitled to the care of the child under the Ordinance. 
Is any action to be taken to enforce the order of the Court; if not, why not. 
My question is directed to the 
Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Has the Government granted special licences to the Torres Strait Aborigines to export turtles and turtle meat? If so, will the Government also grant special licences to Aboriginal enterprises to export kangaroos and kangaroo meat? Will the Minister tell the House whether he has asked the AuditorGeneral for a report on the turtle farming and marketing enterprise in the Torres Strait? If so, will be make that report available to Parliament? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, and I hope that the House might just calm down while I make my personal explanation. It relates to an allegation and a charge made across the chamber to me by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  with respect to the Party of which I am a member. 
I was misrepresented and you have not heard how I was misrepresented,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
 Mr Jeffery  is not the endorsed Country Party candidate for the State seat of Murray and no Country Party member of 
Parliament has been down to support him throughout this election campaign. 
asked the Minister representing the 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to my question No. 1001. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to my question No. 1000. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to my question No. 807. 
asked the Minister representing the 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to my question No. 790. 
asked the Minister representing the 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to my question No. 789. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to my question No. 788. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
What are the names of the street intersections in Canberra where most accidents have occurred during the last  18  months. 
What were the dates on which the intersections were completed, and the number of accidents at each intersection since the time of completion. 
Have there been any complaints to the Department alleging that danger existed at these intersections because of faulty design and lack of traffic lights during the last  18  months; if so, have these complaints been investigated and reported on. 
Has he ensured that recommendations for improved warning and traffic lights are being implemented. 
How many alterations has the Department and the National Capital Development Commission effected since  2  December  1972. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that workmen are causing damage to livestock and property on Tuggeranong Station which is being surveyed for the development of the new town of Tuggeranong. 
Is it also a fact that the lessee of the property has had two stock horses, one valued at  $1,000  shot dead, has lost three cows, and that at least forty sheep have been shot in the hindquarters. 
If the position is as stated, is the lessee of the property regarded as a trespasser and are these actions deliberately designed to frighten the McCormack family off Tuggeranong. 
asked the Minister representing the 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to my question No. 787. 
In accordance with the terms of standing order 159 I inform the House that I fix general business, Thursday No. 12 as the day on which I shall move the motion. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister make available to the Parliament the Auditor-General's Report on the conduct of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd. 
If so, when will the report be presented to the Parliament. 
I want to reply to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who, I am sad to say, is not with us at the moment; I doubt whether he was with us before. He is obviously in trouble in trying to defend a situation which is quite indefensible as far as this Budget's effect upon the rural sector is concerned. Of course this was well noted in the New South Wales State elections held only a week or so ago. There was a swing against the Australian Labor Party of up to 12 per cent and it was probably higher in Riverina than in most other parts of New South Wales. I know the feeling of country people as a result of the provisions of this Income Tax 
Assessment Bill (No. 5). They feel that they have been deceived. If honourable members look through the Bill they will find that the cancellation of accelerated depreciation allowances amounts to a loss of SI Om at least to the rural sector. The cancellation of deductibility of certain expenses amounts to a further SI 7m and the cancellation of investment allowances amounts to a further SI Om. These shock provisions have caused great despair in the rural areas of Australia. So it is not without some significance that only last week Labor recorded the worst vote that it has recorded since 1932 in the rural areas of New South Wales. 
The Minister for Immigration affords himself an enormous task in trying to go out and defend the Government's policies and attitudes towards the rural areas of Australia. I have never heard him so unconvincing about the rural rump of the ALP. As I said in this House once before, the cheeks of the rural rump of the ALP must be blushing as a result of this Budget. The Minister claimed that this Government has now adopted a policy - a collective or a planned policy - for the rural sector; that there is no longer this ad hoc approach to the rural areas. Yet the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  in speaking to the fruit juice industry claimed that he knew nothing about the fruit juice tax. So who has adopted this ad hoc approach to the rural industries and rural producers? 
To me one thing is certain and that is that it is not an ad hoc approach to the rural sector, it is a deliberate policy to try to shift resources from the rural sector to the milk bar economies of Sydney and Melbourne and certainly to shift resources from the private sector to the government sector. This is part of the Labor Party's policy. It is no ad hoc policy, it is part of a total plan. It is certainly a result of the Coombs Task Force report, this task force which could be likened to an economic police squad. Its clear guidelines were to make savage cuts in the former government's expenditure policies so as to enable the Labor Government - the Whitlam Government - to implement its socialist program - and the end result is that the rural sector, not only for the fanners but for the townspeople alike, can be described only as brutal and discriminatory. 
In the provisions of this Bill which we have been debating there has been a total loss of $140m to the rural areas of Australia. Need 
I remind the House of what the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has said about this Bill and the other provisions of the Budget. Perhaps it is not SI 40m contained in this Bill because I think the $140m loss is the total sum of the provision for the Postmaster-General's Department and other areas which were affected by the Budget that was brought down. But let me remind the House that the Treasurer with great frankness and honesty has told us that this Budget represents only phase 1 of the implementation of the Coombs report. We await with some anxiety and fear the implementation of phase 2 and phase 3. This is what is causing consternation in the rural sector. Because of high world prices and the best seasons across Australia since 1964 the people in the farming areas are to enjoy the best incomes they have received since that time. Of course no government can claim - nor can the Minister for Immigration, the honourable member for Riverina claim - that this has been a result of Labor policy. 
World markets have never been much better for primary products than they are at present. Just at a time when a government should be trying to encourage the farmers of this nation to plough some of their profits back into improving their properties and their productivity and to increasing production many of the taxation incentives that were available to the rural sector - indeed, to industry generally - have been withdrawn. Then we hear all the screams about high food prices brought about by a shortage of goods. Surely at a time when the Government is trying to stabilise prices and when it is worried about inflation it should be providing incentives and encouragement to the farmers of this nation to produce more food so that we shall have more of those products available to the housewives in the metropolitan areas. 
It has been a disastrous Budget from the rural sector's point of view, and this view is shared by the rural community as a whole. It was evidenced in the New South Wales elections of last week when Labor sustained the biggest swing against it since 1932, since the days of Jack Lang. So I say to the worthy men of the Labor Party who are representing rural seats: Get to work in caucus and make sure that these Cabinet gentlemen do not steamroll and walk across the face of rural Australia with policies that will cause harm not only to the farming community but also to the nation as a whole. 
Before dealing with the Bills, I should like to refer to a couple of the comments made by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  He referred to what he detected to be a basic philosophical difference between the present Government and former governments in that former governments placed a greater degree of emphasis on the need for tertiary education rather than on the general needs of education. To an extent, that perhaps was true. In a general sense former governments desired to leave the primary and secondary education principally to the administration of and the funding by State governments. But, of course, events have really overtaken that position - on the one hand, the events of 2 December last and, on the other hand, the pressing financial reasons why greater Commonwealth involvement has been necessary in order to help the States to fund this important area of education. I should like to endorse what the honourable member for Scullin said regarding external studies &gt;and the need for a greater expansion of external studies within existing universities. He 'paid a compliment to the University of New England which is in the northern part 6f New South Wales. For some time this University has provided external studies which have been of tremendous benefit to students in- the outback areas of New South Wales. 
In supporting all five of these Bills, I should like to deal brieflly with a few aspects of each of them. The State Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 3), which deals with the 1973- 75 triennium plan to integrate teachers colleges and pre-school teachers colleges, will assist with libraries in particular. Its origins lie in the recommendations of the report on teacher education initiated by the former Government in October last year. A report on teacher education has been prepared by the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. The present Government accepted its recommendations entirely, providing special grants for teachers college libraries and research teacher education and increasing the number of teachers to teach handicapped children. Unfortunately there appears to be no provision for funds to train teachers in the education of children with specific learning difficulties. Perhaps I have misread the Bill, but I hope that if this provision is not included the time will soon come when the Government will assist the parents of children with specific learning difficulties. 
I should like to pay a tribute to the tremendous work that SPELD has done in highlighting this important need. The SPELD organisation has not been anxious to have its children classified as handicapped children. Many of the children suffering from specific learning difficulties have very high or above average intelligence quotients. However, there is a great need for more remedial teachers in our schools and I hope that funds will be provided to assist in this area of need. 
This Bill will make similar provisions for teachers colleges as exist for universities and colleges of advanced education, integrating teachers colleges completely within the framework of the advanced education legislation. I also applaud the allocation of $ 10.29m for pre-school teachers colleges, in view of the universal provision of this facility for our young people within the Commonwealth of Australia. The Bill provides variations in the schedule of expenditure as requested by the States - a transfer of funds rather than new grants. I welcome the provision of full financial support for tertiary education so far as private teachers colleges are concerned. 
Let me now deal briefly with the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No.  4),  which enables the Australian Government to assume full financial responsibility for advanced education from  1  January  1974.  All the Premiers have agreed to this major policy change. The Bill provides supplementary grants to colleges to meet increased costs, particularly with respect to academic salaries arising from  Mr Justice  Campbell's enquiry, which was initiated by the former Government. These provisions will assist students substantially with per capita grants for living away or accommodation costs in advanced education college residencies. The Australian Government will assume full responsibility for the funding of tertiary education from  1  January  1974,  and of course for the entire cost of construction of student residencies in country areas. I also commend this decision. 
With respect to the Commission on Advanced Education Bill, I think it is reasonable that there should be appointed a full time deputy chairman because of the increased work load upon the Commission itself that has become evident. This has been due to the rapid growth in the number of colleges. The Minister in his second reading speech indicated that in  1971  there were  48  such colleges whereas today there are  83,  including  39  former teachers colleges. Of course, the student enrolments have risen quite rapidly from  45,000  in  1971,  when the original Bill was introduced by the former Government, to  95,000  today. I pay tribute to the splendid work of the Commission in advising former Ministers and the present Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley). 
The major policy decision implemented in this legislation is the assumption by the Australian Government of full financial responsibility for university education from January  1974  and the abolition of fees for university and tertiary education. As I said earlier, the State Premiers agreed in June  1973  that this responsibility should be assumed by the Australian Government. In addition, teachers colleges and pre-school teachers colleges were to be financed by the Australian Government, as recommended by the Cohen Committee. The Australian Government has shown an increasing and evolving interest and involvement in tertiary education for many years. Initially its involvement was with the universities which, in the immediate post-war years, were in considerable difficulties. In  1956  the Murray Committee was established to make recommendations to improve the situation of the universities. If recommendations were accepted in full and one result was the establishment of the Australian Universities Commission to oversee the continuing welfare of the universities. Through the  1965  Martin Committee report on the future of tertiary education in Australia, the Australian Government widened its sphere of influence to include other institutions in the tertiary education sector. The Australian Commission on Advanced Education was subsequently established in  1971.  The legislation provides that these 2 commissions should consult together in order that the development of universities and colleges of advanced education should be co-ordinated. With the funds for all these institutions coming from the same source, it is likely that such co-ordination will be regarded as even more essential. 
The desirability of this was argued in principle in the Report of the Committee of Enquiry into Education in South Australia,  1969-1970,  which is known as the Karmel report. I quote from page  306: 
We believe that there are powerful arguments for establishing procedures to facilitate the co-ordination of the plans of the various tertiary institutions. Since the expansion of tertiary, education that is being demanded by the community will involve greatly rising expenditures, the need to ensure an efficient allocation of resources becomes greater and greater. 
The Armidale conference on higher education held in  1969  recommended that the Australian Universities Commission and the Advisory Committee on Advanced Education, as it was constituted prior to the establishment of the Commission, should be replaced by a single higher education authority to advise the Commonwealth Government and to consult with State governments on the short and long term needs of all institutions comprising the higher education system. It is possible that such an overall authority may be found desirable. The previous Government felt that until the status of the colleges of advanced education had been improved the proposal should not be implemented. The Labor Government has as yet shown no signs of amalgamating its education commissions. On the contrary, since the Labor Government took office, interim committees or commissions have been established for schools, preschools and technical and further education. 

 Dr C. Duke, Director of the Australian National University Centre for Continuing Education, has warned that 'the proliferation of educational commissions may artificially divide educational experience or perpetuate administrative divisions which already exist, in a way which does violence to the learning needs of persons in a rapidly changing society and economy.' 
The Australian Government's direction of university education has in the past been exercised largely through the system of matched grants and specific purpose grants. These have enabled the Australian Government largely to determine priorities. The inability of the States to match the grants, it has been argued, has limited growth in some areas. The increasing costs of university and other areas of education have made increased Australian Government involvement inevitable. As I said earlier, it has been an evolving process, and this has been necessary to maintain desirable standards of education. The Labor Party undertaking to abolish fees at tertiary level and take over the funding of tertiary education is based partly on the premise that the States could not realistically be expected to bear the increasing costs without a major adjustment in Commonwealth-State financial arrangements. 
The 2 aspects - fee abolition and the general funding of tertiary education - are closely linked. The Australian Government contributed $1 for each $1.85 collected in State contribution plus fees for recurrent expenditure. The only way in which fees could be abolished without the States having to replace them with other revenue or the university having to forgo them, was for. the Australian Government to make up the difference. The Government has gone further than this by assuming the States' share of the financial responsibility for tertiary education. One of the most serious problems in the future will be to ensure that centralised financial responsibility does not lead to a centralisation of administrative and educational responsibility which stifles initiative and diversity at the local level. This has been stressed by honourable members who have spoken in this debate. It has been said often in this House. I hope that the Minister will be able to give us an opinion on that position. 
Two streams of argument have been ventured with respect to the abolition of tuition fees at the tertiary level. I have heard it argued, firstly, that fee abolition will improve access to tertiary ' education for students from lower socio-economic backgrounds; secondly, that it is" a fundamental principle that all education should be free; and, thirdly, that an urgently needed revision of StateCommonwealth  arrangements for funding tertiary education would become necessary. On the other hand 1 have heard it argued that, firstly, the abolition of fees might replace some of the more motivated students by the less motivated. If selected on matriculation results, it has been shown that, below the top 60 per cent, matriculation results are less important than motivation as an indicator of success. 
Secondly, I have heard it argued that if all financial constraints were removed, students from lower socio-economic levels would still suffer owing to their home background, parental motivation towards higher education, poorer schooling and so on. Thirdly, although some poorer students would be helped, this would be done by subsidising other students who are not in need and who will eventually earn more anyway as a result of their university education. Fourthly, through higher costs there may be a decrease in the number of tertiary places available. Fifthly, institutional control of recurrent expenditure may b&amp; decreased. 
I do not altogether agree with the arguments against the abolition of fees. I throw them into the debate to provoke thought. I believe that the Government has made a worthy and generous attempt to provide for all children of ability an equality of opportunity in all fields of education. I support the Bills and commend the Minister for the effort that he has put into having this legislation passed through the House prior to the commencement of the next school year. 
Firstly I wish to say that the Australian Country Party supports the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Before devoting myself to the provisions of the Bill I wish to refer to a comment made by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  in response to an interjection by me during his speech. I questioned him as to why the States were not able to consider the needy.  His  hypothesis that the Australian Government is closer to the needs of the people living in the States is one which assumes that the State Governments are unable because of political considerations to administer education within their boundaries for the benefit of the children of needy people. I do not agree with that hypothesis. I do not agree with that assumption. But I do understand that the States have had some difficulty in providing for the education needs within their boundaries because of the unavailability of funds that they have experienced over the years owing to the inadequacy of the revenue grants that they have been receiving from the Commonwealth Government. I say that quite fairly. New South Wales, for instance, has devoted over 50 per cent of its total Budget to the needs of education. So it is very dangerous to assume from that that a Canberra based government can minister to the needs of the people more adequately than a government based in Perth, Sydney or Melbourne or that a Canberra-based government can minister more adequately to the needs of the children of Moree than the general administrative structure in Sydney of the New South Wales Department of Education. So, if there is to be any criticism, let it be quite fairly laid at the feet of former Commonwealth governments which have not made adequate revenue grants to the States to enable them to minister or to tend to the needs of young people. 
From the outset one must acknowledge that this Bill is the product of the 1973 recommendations of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission and a nationwide survey into the needs of education in Australia that was conducted by the Australian Education Council in 1969. Most of the Interim Committee's recommendations have been incorporated in this Bill. Some have been varied by the Government for one reason or another. I commend Professor Karmel and his Committee for the outstanding contribution made by them in the survey of education needs in Australia. The Interim Committee was given a near impossible charter because of the haste in which it had to conduct its inquiries. That is, of course, one of the main considerations in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wannon. There has been some severe criticism of the way in which the non-systemic, non-government schools have been categorised and of the way in which the per capita grants to non-government schools have been abandoned. But this blame should not be directed at the Karmel Committee. The blame should be cast in the direction of the Whitlam Government. The Interim Committee had to operate within the terms of reference which were laid down and, indeed, a directive from the Government that the Committee should make its recommendations on the basis of relative needs and priorities without a pre-determined basic level of support to all non-government schools. In other words, non-government schools were to be penalised according to their degrees of excellence. The better the resources of a school, the higher the teacher-pupil ratio and the greater the contribution made by a school, its parents and friends, the smaller would be the Australian Government aid to that school. It appears to me to be part of a general socialist philosophy which must undermine any incentive amongst those associated with private schools to improve from their own resources the excellence of education in those schools. 
This decision by the Government was taken in spite of the undertaking of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  prior to the election that any new forms of aid to independent schools should be given in addition to existing programs of aid. It was a monstrous deception and a mean act by the Whitlam Labor Government. The Government has paid and will pay the price for its deceit, its sleight of hand and its prejudice because its callous deception has marred a generally good approach to the needs of education in Australia. Although the Prime Minister and his Government have broken a pre-election promise, one retains respect for and extends sympathy to the Minister for 
Education  (Mr Beazley)  who sought to do the right thing but was let down by his embittered colleagues whose prejudice against nongovernment schools was deep and vicious. 
Unfortunately, as the amendment points out, the Karmel Committee had inadequate time to assess the effects of this category system on non-systemic independent schools but at least recommended that aid to category schools be phased out rather than it be abruptly stopped as from next year. This action will result in heavy increases in fees to be paid by parents sending 33,000 children to category A schools next year, all for the sake of $2m in 1974 and $lm in 1975. Yet any one of these 33,000 children will now have the right to enter universities, colleges of advanced education and other tertiary colleges without payment of fees. What is the crazy logic behind this decision? The abolition of these fees will cost the taxpayers $30m. The abolition of the fees will take place without a means test or a needs test. 
I have already supported this concept in the House but I cannot see the logic behind a decision costing about $30m in the first 6 months of its operation and the abrupt withdrawal from category A schools of $2m in this year and $lm in the following year. It is an act of discrimination and prejudice. I believe it to be an act of doctrinaire socialists who have overridden their Minister who insisted that there would be no reduction of aid to any non-government school under a Labor government. This decision could have some deep and divisive consequences in our society. I certainly hope it does not happen, but there are indications that there is some resentment building up because a great number of schools that have been placed into this category happen to be non-Catholic schools. 
One of the other serious consequences is that it is now unlikely that parents, staff and councils of independent schools will work hard to raise the standards of their schools for fear that they would automatically be lifted to a higher category and so lose state aid. Nobody could truthfully say that the overriding financial considerations have denied category A schools of State aid. The Australian Country Party and, indeed, the entire Opposition, supports the policy of applying per capita grants to independent schols tied to a percentage of state school recurrent costs to help these schools with their recurrent expenditure. 
Such a policy ensures the right of each child to an equitable share of education funding. These per capita grants should be adjusted each year so that they maintain a relationship with state school costs and respond to the inflationary pressures in the economy. It is clear that the 20 per cent formula is insufficient and that a higher percentage of the State school costs should be extended across the board to all independent schools. The needy schools should receive additional supplementary grants for the acquisition of land for school purposes, the provision of new school buildings and the replacement of old schools and other capital facilities where these are inadequate and below acceptable standards. The category system could well be used for the capital grants based on priority needs but certainly not for recurrent expenditures. 
It is clear that any Australian government has enormous responsibility to assist the States to meet the heavy costs of education. It is clear that such policies, while assisting substantially needy schools, should not discriminate against parents who choose to send their children to schools of their choice. Having pointed again to that dark cloud that casts its shadow over the better aspects of this Bill, I want to express my general support for the long strides that the Government has taken to assist the handicapped children, the funding of libraries in primary schools, the general building grants program, the provision of funds to the States for the housing of teaching and other staff in country areas, the disadvantaged schools program, the teacher development program for assistance to in-service teacher training and the special projects program. All these are worthy projects within the total program. I also welcome the assurance in the second reading speech of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that the States will retain responsibility for their own construction program for their own State schools and the schools for handicapped children. lt is essential, however, that there be flexibility for the States in the administration of funds allocated within the various schedules of this Bill. Unless this is so it will impose rigid and impossible administrative burdens on the various State administrations. In the interests of common sense and the education of our children the desire for centralised control of education must be cast aside. 
I return now to the education of handicapped children. The Government is to be congratulated for making substantial funds available for the 33,000 handicapped children throughout Australia - $20m for a building project for government schools, $14. 16m for the recurrent expenditures in government and non-government special schools, and $8.25m for special education training courses and related teacher replacement in special schools. The total appropriation over the next 2 years is $43. 5m. There is additionally the $2 for every $1 now available for building projects at non-government special schools under the handicapped children's assistance Act. This also will complement, assist and supplement programs already in force. It does constitute a long overdue and massive attack on the problem. Before the debate concludes I hope that the Postmaster-General will give a clear indication to this House that those children with specific learning difficulties as distinct from handicapped children will be taken into account with respect to remedial teacher training. There is a great need in this respect. I know that the honourable member for Casey raised this .point and supported this concept. SPELD has been advocating assistance in this direction for two or three years and I hope that the Postmaster-General will give an assurance that children suffering from specific learning difficulties will be covered under the terms of this Bill. 
Although it is not my intention to rubbish the Government for increasing the allocation of funds to assist education I wish to clarify the actual degree to which the Government is increasing expenditure in this field. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  referred to what he termed the short halting steps of the former Government in the field of education. That is not fair and is not true. There has been a continuing and evolving program of assistance, particularly in the field of tertiary education. It was not a flatering and halting sort of approach to the problem at all. It is true that the States complained that they were not getting sufficient revenue grants to provide sufficient funds from their own resources for the total problems of education. It has been said that the Whitlam Government has increased expenditure on education to the extent of $404m, or 92 per cent more than last year. The net additional expenditure is very much less than $400m. Of this figure, $ 144.6m is a direct transfer payment from the States to the Commonwealth and represents expenditure for the last 6 months of this financial year when the Commonwealth will take over all tertiary education. The Commonwealth no longer will be making this $144m available to the States by way of special grants for university education. This is merely a transfer of funds from the States to the Commonwealth for education purposes. It is a matter of appropriation. 
A further amount of $90m in the total sum of $400m was approved in principle for teacher training by the former Minister for Education. I suppose that a more accurate figure of additional expenditure in the field of education would be something of the order of $150m. The great increase in the total expenditure for education in the Budget has been in the area of university and tertiary education, including, as I said earlier, what were the States' grants for advanced colleges of education, for universities and tertiary education. I do not argue against what has been done by the Government in this respect but I believe that we should get the facts right. The Commonwealth has taken over responsibility for tertiary education on the understanding that the cost will be deducted from the financial assistance grants to the States. Indeed, when one examines the overall total government and private consumption expenditures on education in 1973-74 one finds that it will be over $2,000m compared with $ 1,743m in the previous year - an increase of 14 per cent. When one finds that 80 per cent of final consumption expenditures on education are devoted to payments for salaries and wages one recognises that substantial salary increases will account for most of the expenditure. With inflation raging at a rate in excess of 10 per cent, the increase in real terms could well be marginal. I seek leave to incorporate 3 tables in Hansard. I discussed these earlier with the Postmaster-General. 
The Opposition has taken the position that the structure of the schools commission as outlined by the Bill does not meet the expressed intention and a professed principle of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  What the amendments serve to do is to enlarge the membership of the Commission from a maximum of 12 to 15 and to provide wider representation of the community which is affected by the Bill. Indeed, this amendment is in line with the written policy of the Australian Labor Party. In his policy speech last year, on the section dealing with 'Schools', the Prime Minister said: 
A Federal Labor Government will: . . . 
Allocate the increased grants for 1974 and sub sequent years on the basis of recommendations prepared and published by the expert schools commission which will include persons familiar with and representative of- 
The words 'representative of are the key to our position in regard to this amendment -  the State departments, the Catholic system and the teaching profession. 
But where in the Bill does the Government give legislative endorsement to this position? The extraordinary reaction of the Acting Minister for Education, the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the Government which indicate that it cannot live with these amendments leads one to the conclusion that the Government does not want an independent commission representative of the State departments, the Catholic system and the teaching profession. 
We have reason to believe that the Minister has already promised certain people that they will get a guernsey on the Commission. Undoubtedly this is true. But members of the Commission should be selected according to the criteria which are contained in the Opposition's amendments. But unless these requirements are mandatory on future Ministers of Education, indeed on future governments, can we be sure that a schools commission will have the crosssectional community representation that is described in the Opposition's amendments? At the moment the Minister or the government of the day appoints all commissions. How then can such a commission be called or deemed to be an independent body of the people? If people who are appointed depend entirely on the Minister for re-appointment and if they do not behave themselves and do not do what the Minister says, will they be independent in a real sense? In any event, governments tend to appoint to such positions people who are prepared 'to play ball'. 
The Opposition, in suggesting these Senate amendments, is seeking to ensure that the spirit of the Prime Minister's statement is actually carried into effect. They will ensure that all future Ministers will be under mandatory obligation to appoint a  chairman  and 3 other members, one of whom will be involved in research into education. Four members will be appointed on the recommendation of the Australian Education Council - of which the Australian Minister for Education is in fact  Chairman  - one of whom will be involved with the education of handicapped children or children with specific learning difficulties. Three other members will be appointed as recommended by the Episcopal Conference of Australia, the National Council of Independent Schools and the Australian Parents' Council. Two appointees will be those recommended by the Australian Teachers' Federation. The Opposition writes this requirement into the Bill. The idea is to have it inscribed so that the Teachers' Federation will have the mandatory right to ensure that it will have representation on the Schools Commission. Two representatives will be from the Australian Council of School Organisations. Such a commission would be independent, flexible and responsive to the community requirements. 
I think it is completely irresponsible not to accept the sense contained in the Opposition's amendment or even to threaten to drop this Bill. The amendments were moved in good faith to ensure that there is community representation on that Commission. These amendments write into the legislation that requirement to ensure that those organisations and those people involved in education have a mandatory right to be represented on the Commission. It has been said in another place that it would be sheer petulance and arrogance to drop this Bill because of these amendments. It would be a complete disregard for the students who would be served well by it. It has been said also that since the Government will not agree with these amendments it will not be able to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on education. What arrant nonsense. It can spend that money regardless. It can reappoint the Interim Commission. Is this true or false? There is no answer from the Acting Minister, so we assume that that is right. The question of legislation- 
What I am saying is that it has been said that if the Opposition takes this position the Government will not go along with the establishment of a schools commission and this will deny- 
No. That is arrant nonsense because you could still operate through the Interim Schools Commission. 
 The Opposition sticks very rigidly to the position that it is far better, in the long term interests of education, to require that the members of the schools commission - the principle of which the Opposition accepts - be appointed as a result of mandatory guidelines written into the legislation to ensure that the Commission includes representatives of the States school systems, education research, the independent school system and the Teachers Federation - indeed all of those interested groups that are in fact involved in education. I think it is rubbish to try to lead people to believe that the amendments would deny to education something like $400m or $500m. For years teachers have sought representation on education bodies and commissions. Here is their chance to appoint their own representatives. We seek to impose a mandatory obligation upon not necessarily the Government of today but governments of the future to have 2 teacher representatives upon the Schools Commission. 
I am also of the opinion that there has been an attempt to blackmail the teaching profession and the people into believing that because the Opposition has decided to move for the structuring of the Schools Commission in this way education will fail to receive the funds that have been promised to it in the Budget. The Opposition will pursue these 3 amendments because it believes that it is in the best long term interests of education to ensure that the Schools Commission be structured in this way. I quote again from the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 20 June 1972 in an address to the Catholic Luncheon Club, Melbourne. Referring to the Commission, he said: 
The Commission will include representatives of State departments, non-government school authorities, parents' organisations and the teaching profession. 
That is precisely what the Opposition is endeavouring to do. It is endeavouring to make it mandatory upon governments of today and the future to ensure that that represenation is in fact applied to the Schools Commission. The other amendments, of course, relate to the way in which the Schools Commission itself shall- 
My question is directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. 
I wish to address my remarks to the question that has been the subject of some debate this morning. I refer principally to what I regard as blackmail by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of the students of this country and his effort to blackmail the Opposition for supporting a position that he supported himself last year when going to the people. This week the Parliament voted unanimously for the States Grants (Schools) Bill. It voted an expenditure of $690m towards education in Australia for the years 1974 and 1975. The Opposition wishes not only to ensure that this money goes to education but also to see retained the principle that every Australian child is entitled to go and his parents have a freedom of choice to send him to whatever school is selected. This principle was reaffirmed unanimously by the Catholic bishops in August this year. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  claimed repeatedly prior to the last election, and I quote the Prime Minister: 
The ALP will support any forms of benefit already existing to education and therefore any policies would be additional to those existing in the field of education.  Mr Beazley  went to great lengths to try to overcome what he claimed was a whispering campaign. He said that no private school under Labor will in future have less than it will receive under the per capita grant system at that time. 
So, here is a complete repudiation of Labor's promise; a breach of faith with the parents of school children in Australia. 
Let us look at what happened with respect to the Karmel Committee. The Interim Schools Commission was given terms of reference that did not match the spirit of the undertakings given by spokesmen for the then Opposition, prior to the last election. Those terms of reference said that the Committee should make its recommendations on the basis of relative needs and priorities without a predetermined basic level of support to all non-government schools. It was on that basis that the Karmel Committee made its recommendations for assistance to education, was forced into categorising schools from A to H and was forced to deny the per capita grants system flowing to the independent schools of this country. 
Not even the Caucus, the Cabinet or the Government accepted the recommendations of the Karmel Committee. Even the Karmel Committee recommended that grants to category A schools should not be phased out immediately or should be immediately deprived of state aid. The Karmel Committee recommended that aid to those schools should be phased out over a 2 year period. The Government did not accept that recommendation. The reason for that recommendation is a callous and a bitter prejudice against certain schools in this country. It is a bitterness which eats into its soul as maggots eat into a carcass. It is a most unfortunate and sad state of affairs. This aspect of the Government's policy has marred what has otherwise been a very sound and good approach to education generally. It is quite wrong for the Prime Minister or his Ministers to claim that the Opposition has opposed the Bill to extend aid to independent and other schools. 
It has not done that. That is quite untrue. What the Opposition has done is to try to force the Prime Minister and the Government to honour their pre-election undertakings to the Australian people. The Government has failed to live up to those undertakings in these discussions. This is a breach of faith and a broken promise. It is just another one of the promises broken by this Government. The promise to the Australian people on this issue has been broken and the Government is not prepared to go to the people on it. The Government is not prepared to go to the Australian people on any of the issues on which it claimed it would. The Government knows in its own heart that it has broken an undertaking that it gave to Australian parents who were sending their children to independent schools. 
I will read it for you. 
They do not want to hear me. 
The Prime Minister, in speaking of recurrent grants to schools, said: 
The ALP will support any forms of benefit already existing- 
That is what it has done', says the honourable member for Casey. Yet, as a result of the proposals of the Karmel Committee which were included in the States Grants (Schools) Bill, independent schools will receive less money in respect of 53 per cent of their secondary school pupils than they would have received under the legislation of the former Government. Do not try to deny that. It is the truth. The Australian people should know the truth. Let the media state the truth. There has been a certain degree of misrepresentation in the media of this fact to date. 
The Government has failed to honour undertakings that the Prime Minister himself gave, whilst Leader of the Opposition, to parents with children at independent schools. I want to repeat one fact. Let us leave aside the category A schools about which there is so much prejudice and bitterness. Under this scheme that the Government is implementing, 53 per cent of all secondary school pupils attending independent schools will receive less money than they would have received under the legislation of the former Government. If Government members can prove that statement to be incorrect, I will apologise. But that is the situation. 
By the action taken by the Opposition in the House of Representatives, the security of a basic grant to every child attending a non-government school is preserved. There is no valid reason why the funds for education totalling $690m should be held up by the Government as the Government is now threatening to do. This is a bluff and a threat. It is not directed so much against the Opposition, although I must say that one could claim as support for a belief that it was an article in the 'Australian' of today's date attributed to a Paul Kelly. That article states: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  told a Labor Party Caucus meeting yesterday the Government would win an election fought on the Opposition's amendments to the $690m schools grants program. 

 Mr Whitlam said the Government had a clear mandate. . . 
The Opposition parties in the Senate are threatening Australian schools with great hardship and, in many cases, with disaster'- 
So it goes on. Look, the Prime Minister is quite wrong and he is quite deliberately forgetting the undertakings which he gave to the Australian people prior to the last election. He thinks that memories are short. He thinks that he can bluff the Australian people and the Opposition on this issue, believing that it might be the thing on which he can win an election. 
Country Party supporters - Might! 
That is so. But I believe that members of the Labor Party will see the sense in restoring to those schools what has been denied to them, that is, the sum of $2m in the first 6 months of this year and  Sim  for next year. Do not tell me that this is a matter of funds. The Government has instituted a program for university and tertiary education to be free of fees. I do not argue against that. But that program will cost $30m. For the sake of $3m, Government members have allowed prejudice and bitterness to become the overriding factor. They have placed themselves in a serious situation. I hope that they will negotiate with common sense for the sake of justice and for what is otherwise a good education program. 
Firstly, I take up one point that was made by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  He referred to the lack of progress that had been made over a long period of years towards achieving a better balance in the distribution of population in Australia. I cannot help but agree with the comments that he made. I do not do it in any political sense because, although all political parties may have had a good philosophical approach to the problem of decentralisation and a better distribution of population, it has been very difficult over the period to get sufficient public enthusiasm for this approach in Australia. Governments of all political persuasions in all States have been aware of the problem, but they have not been able to approach the problem satisfactorily. Obviously, there is only one way in which they can make the sort of attack on the problem that is necessary, and that is with the aid of finance from the Australian Government. 
Honourable members, and indeed the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  will recall that last year the former Prime Minister introduced legislation to establish the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. This is the genesis of the legislation before us today. Indeed, in the debate at that time in September or October of last year I said: 
This proposal marks an historic landmark in the direction of Australia's future development. 
At the time of the introduction of this legislation to establish the National Urban and Regional Development Authority we also pointed to the mammoth task which would confront all governments, both State and Federal, in making a real dent on the problem. The Leader of my Party, the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony, made this comment when that legislation was introduced: 
It marks the beginning of a major attack on the imbalance of population and industry that has plagued the nation for a long time. 
The formation of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority was the result of many years of consultation between officials of the State and Commonwealth governments. They met together in an officers committee which was established to work out a formula that would provide a policy for the comprehensive and balanced development of Australia. 
During 1971 and 1972 the then Department of the Interior, upon my instruction, undertook far reaching studies of ways and means to set in train a pattern of new town development. Indeed, I asked the permanent head of that Department,  Mr George  Warwick Smith, to undertake an overseas study of new town development in the United States, the United Kingdom, France and Scandinavia. He prepared a valuable report as a result of those studies. I also had general discussions with  Sir John  Overall who was at that time the Commissioner of the National Capital Development Commission and who later became the  Chairman  of the Cities Commission. I asked him to turn his mind to ways and means of bringing about new town development in Australia. As a consequence of these efforts and the other efforts, and indeed the years of efforts of the present Minister, who brought to his Department a degree of knowledge and a very good approach to the problem, we are now seeing an approach to comprehensive and balanced development getting off the ground. 
Although the Minister began the year with what I thought was a heavy hand in his approach to the States, I commend him for the way in which he has been able to negotiate with the various State governments to achieve the sort of machinery that has been necessary for new town development. It was no easy task. It would not have mattered as to what party the Minister had belonged; he would have had some difficulty in trying to accommodate the views of the various State governments, with their jealousies, and the position of the Commonwealth. I believe that if he had not approached the matter in the manner in which he has he would have imperilled progress towards any meaningful approach to any new pattern of urban and regional development. I think that the Minister has shown a great example of how other Commonwealth Ministers should deal in their discussions with State Ministers. So I commend the Minister quite sincerely for the way in which he has succeeded in getting the cooperation of the States. 
Earlier this year at a meeting of the Ministerial Council it was agreed to establish an interim consultative committee in regard to the Albury-Wodonga growth centre. After protracted negotiations an agreement was signed on 23 October 1973. Although it did not completely conform to the New South Wales Government's position, a compromise was reached. The structure of the proposed development corporation ensured that the States of New South Wales and Victoria would have rights equal to those of the Australian Government. 
The agreement also required the States to establish land corporations or commissions to acquire land under State legislation, with the State nominated  deputy chairman  of the development corporation as the  chairman  of the land corporation. There was a battle over land tenure. The Commonwealth took the position that leasehold would be the most desirable form of tenure for any designated area. However, once again the Minister expressed the view that before the Commonwealth took a position with regard to land tenure it should await the outcome of the findings of the inquiry into land tenure by  Mr Justice  Else Mitchell. 
The States will retain the right to establish their own policies of acquisition and compensation payable in respect of land acquired for the development corporations. I understand that within the next week or so the New South Wales Government will introduce legislation to set up a lands commission, which is essential. One thing is clear, namely, that no land owner should be either the beneficiary of a great land boom windfall in a designated area or a loser as a result of an area being designated in an interim order. However, that is a matter for the States, although the Commonwealth is indirectly financing land acquisition by loans at the bond rate. Those loans are repayable by the States. There are provisions to assist the States in the repayment of some of those loans. There is provision also for grants to be made for specific projects. 
One would hope that the Government would be generous with grants in such an important national program, which we hope will remove the pattern of ugly urban development we have seen in Australia. If the Whitlam Government is serious and sincere in its approach to this problem, it should ensure that generous grants are made to the Minister and his Department from the Treasury, so that there is a degree of flexibility and so that nonrepayable grants are available to the various State development authorities to enable the program to accelerate, now that it is getting off the ground. The allocation of $24m of loan funds for a new cities program is only a flea bite on the massive problem. The provision of $9m in repayable loans to enable the New South Wales and Victorian Governments to commence a program at AlburyWodonga is but a start. Admittedly, $30m has been provided for land acquisition. For any program of decentralisation to succeed, it must be one of comprehensive balanced development. The recent savage Budget - the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is not directly responsible for this - with its effect on rural areas in taking away a range of rural incentives, is a serious setback to decentralisation. The partial elimination of the petrol price equalisation scheme of the former Government and the threat of losing it all in next year's Budget, the increased postal and telephone charges in rural areas, the abolition of the rural investment allowances, the reduction of depreciation allowances and the increases in air charges and air fares will reverse any real efforts towards decentralisation in the rural areas of Australia. The total budgetary cost to rural Australia is of the magnitude of $140m at least, and must be regarded as a severe blow to the rural areas of our nation. 
It is more severe when one realises that these measures came on top of the equivalent of 3 appreciations of the Australian dollar which reduced the returns to export industries, whether they be rural, mining or manufacturing. Our exporters are now at a 26 per cent disadvantage, in terms of currency and exchange rates, compared with their competitors in the United States of America and Canada. 
 It might be wiser to float the currency than to have it tied to the United States dollar when the United States dollar is getting stronger. We are continuing to appreciate from a high base as a result of 3 unilateral revaluations. 
We are informed that this year's Budget is only phase 1 of the adoption of the recommendations in the Coombs report. Phase 2 and phase 3, certainly supported by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  are yet to come. Yet, these measures are replaced by a $54m loan allocation to the States to aid a new cities program for the development of new cities within 150 miles of our capital cities. The combined result of these programs will accelerate the drift of population to the cities. Needless to say, these measures tend to receive the applause of most of the metropolitan Press and editorial writers who are aiding what I believe to be a one-eyed, lopsided, crazy and ugly trend of population distribution and development in this country. 
Australia is the largest island continent in the world. It has vast resources, enormous space and a relatively small population; yet it has the most urbanised population in the world. It has a Prime Minister who calls himself a cities Prime Minister and calls his Government a government of the cities. In truth, Australia has all the ingredients for an escalating cities growth trend, although it has the opportunity to achieve comprehensive balanced development. It must be our national objective to ensure that our largest cities do not grow at their present rates and to such sizes that human endeavour within them takes too great a toll of human time, comfort and pleasure in living. Any attack on the problem of regional development should be directed towards ensuring that people who prefer to live in country towns or medium sized rural cities such as Dubbo may do so without forgoing a reasonable range of employment opportunities and a fair share of the social and economic opportunities at present found only in the major cities. 
The Whitlam Government's 2-pronged approach to comprehensive balanced development is not broad enough. In the longer term it will not be sufficient to alter the trend of population congestion in Australia. I believe that, if anything, it will tend to accelerate the drift in the movement of people to the metropolitan cities. The only way in which a real impact on the problem of gaining balanced development will be achieved is by a joint Commonwealth-State 4-pronged approach. I have said this before in the House. I reiterate it because I am sure that the Minister ultimately will see the sense in it, if only he can persuade his ministerial and party colleagues. That is not something that applies only to him; but it applies to all Ministers of all governments. If the Minister can persuade fellows such as the honourable member for Kingston on this point, then his job will be much easier. 
The first prong in my suggested approach is the commencement, on an annual basis, of selected regional growth centres, each to accommodate up to 300,000 people, and located throughout Australia and away from existing cities. The Minister would agree with that entirely. The second prong is a metropolitan redevelopment program to help overcome problems of population and environmental pressures in the major cities. The third prong is the provision of general incentives and subsidies to assist country areas to overcome their existing economic disadvantages for industry, commerce and investment and social disadvantages for the people. The fourth prong is that State governments should be given every encouragement to continue with their selective support in country towns generally in order to maintain a healthy and viable growth rate in those towns. People who live in country towns with a population of up to, say, 10,000 or more are Australians and are just as important as those who live in the cities. We are one people, one nation and one Australia. 
The first 2 prongs are of equal importance, and the prospect of any program achieving a balanced distribution of population, with people living at desirable standards, will depend upon the balance achieved in those 2 areas. The other 2 prongs in the approach are also important and appear to have been disregarded in the current approach to the problem. However, the main thrust in any decentralisation program must be towards selective decentralisation in spite of the political considerations and parochial jealousies it can arouse. I concur fully with the Minister in that regard. The success of the program will also depend on the incentives it can offer industries to relocate or locate their enterprises in these new centres. It will depend on how much confidence it can inspire among those in the private sector to invest in the new development. Incentives offered to industry, especially labour intensive industries, should be designed to make them better off than similar industries in metropolitan areas. If they only neutralise cost disadvantages because of rural locations they fail to achieve the carrot objective. This is especially so when an industry's viability is related to its proximity to markets. 
Before concluding I wish to refer to one other aspect of the legislation - the land commissions. I have been provided with an information paper by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Paragraph 3 on page 2 reads as follows: 
It is proposed that an Australian Land Commission will eventually be formed as the vehicle through which the agreements between the Australian Government and the State governments would be brought into effect and monitored and through which funds would be made available by the Australian Government. 
I just hope that this does not grow into some unnecessary monster bureaucracy, because the States will be establishing their own land commissions. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in his second reading speech sought clarification from the Minister for Urban and Regional Development on several questions. I fully support him and his requests. I hope that satisfactory answers can be provided so that we can give a speedy passage to these Bills and enable the Australian and State governments to get on with the job of new town development and a new approach to comprehensive balanced development. The Australian Country Party supports these Bills. 
by leave- I thank the Minister for making these reports available to the Parliament at this time. I do not believe for one moment that these reports are the last chapters in what has been a sordid story. Here is a project to which funds have been allocated, without adequate research and scrutiny, ostensibly in the interests of Aboriginal advancement. For too long the Council of Aboriginal Affairs, the office of Aboriginal Affairs and now the Department of Aboriginal Affairs have been able to invest funds in Aboriginal enterprises without proper research, programming and supervision from the capital fund in the trust account. No-one quibbles at the expenditure or the investment; indeed, it is essential that great sums of money be made available to assist in Aboriginal advancement. Perhaps nobody would doubt the sincerity of those who were trying to find adequate enterprises and projects for the Aborigines of the Tones Straits and elsewhere in Australia, but every effort must be made in the future to ensure that Aboriginal enterprises do not end up as failures. 
Of course, there is going to be the odd one, but here is a significant - a very important - Aboriginal enterprise that has obviously ended up in a very sad way. Now we have before us reports that have been prepared by consultants, and I cast no reflection whatsoever on the integrity or the ability of those who have been engaged; they are eminent gentlemen, and they represent wellknown firms of consultants. But why have we not had a report from the Auditor-General? I asked the former 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs a question in this House, and he replied that he had called for a report from the Auditor-General. I placed a question on the notice paper, as follows: 
Will the Minister make available to the Parliament the Auditor-General's Report on the conduct of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd. 
If so, when will the report be presented to the Parliament. 
The answers given to those questions are as follows: 
and (2) A firm of chartered accountants and riot the Auditor-General was appointed by the directors as auditor, for the purposes of the Australian Capital Territory Companies Ordinance 1962-1973, of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd and Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd. Consequently it is not the Auditor-General's responsibility to report on the conduct of these companies or to inspect and audit their accounts and records. 
The Auditor-General's responsibilities are limited under the Audit Act to ensuring that payments made to the companies from the Public Account have been approved by the competent authority. A similar situation exists with regard to his responsibilities under the Aboriginal Enterprises Assistance Act in respect of payments made to the companies from the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. 
I might add that the Audit Act makes no provision for Ministers to request reports from the Auditor-General on particular matters. In accordance with that Act the Auditor-General includes in his report to the Parliament such information as he thinks desirable in relation to those examinations and inspections carried out by him in pursuance of the provisions of the Audit Act or any other Act. 
I think it is a most regrettable state of affairs that the Auditor-General, who was called upon to examine and to report on the affairs of these companies - I understand that he undertook some examination - is not being brought into this picture. I hope it is not the Government's intention to smother up the right and proper processes of investigation. We have seen a pretty sordid run of events, including the sacking - if one wants to use that word; perhaps that is unfair, but the removal - of a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs from his portfolio. I think this was followed then by statements by a senator in another place, making rather serious allegations against the way in which funds were being spent to advance Aborigines. In fact, I recall his very phrase - that the whole area is a disaster area littered with failures. 
Then only a few days ago we heard that the  Chairman  of one of these companies had sacked  Dr Bustard,  and what has happened? Only yesterday the present Minister for 
Aboriginal Affairs informed us that  Senator Georges  had been sacked as the  Chairman  of one of these companies and that  Dr Bustard  had been reinstated. It has created a rather curious set of events, and I do not think that we have heard the full story. I have had questions on the notice paper. If it is permissible, may I read a question that is on the notice paper? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)If it is relevant. 
It is quite relevant. Thank you very much,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The question states: 
With reference to the Minister's answer to my question No. 1298, does the Audit Act make provision for the collection and payment of public moneys and the audit of the public accounts and the protection of public property. 
Is the Minister the sole shareholder in Applied Ecology Pty Ltd, Islander Marketing Pty Ltd and Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd. 
Has the Minister contributed any funds other than moneys appropriated by the Parliament. 
Was there any other source of revenue to any of these companies, other than public funds, in the year 1972-73. 
In establishing 3 companies to spend public money, was it intended to avoid the scrutiny of Parliament and avoid the purposes of the Audit Act; if not, does it effectively do this. 
Will the reports of the chartered accountants who audited the affairs of these companies be made available to the Parliament. 
The latter part of that question has been answered by the tabling of these reports this morning. 
I have had on the notice paper for some time a further question directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It reads: 
In view of the Minister's statement on 25 October 1973 that he favoured an all-party standing committee to screen all applications for loans, advances and grants for Aboriginal enterprises, did he authorise a statement which appeared in the 'Australian' of 8 November 1973 that a review committee of 7 second division officers of the Department would be established. 
If so, why was the statement not made in the Parliament which was then sitting. 
We had an undertaking from the Minister that he would set up a parliamentary select committee to screen and to review all Aboriginal enterprises. But on 8 November we were informed - not in the Parliament, but through a Press release which perhaps was issued by the Department - that there would not be an all-party committee screening these Aboriginal enterprises but that 7 Second Division officers  of the Department would examine them. Is this another indication that somebody is trying to cover up the real facts of the situation? We cannot get away from 3 simple facts in relation to this matter. The turtle farming project was started and much money was spent on it, without the necessary permit to export being obtained. I put a question on the notice paper about that matter also. 
I am not denying that. 
I am being quite fair. I think the whole project is a disaster. I do not think that it has been improved much by the current events. I hope that we do not see any further operations of this kind without proper research and without proper provision being made to ensure that the project has some hope of success. I think that in the past too many fingers have been in the pie. I think the Council for Aboriginal Affairs has been regarded somewhat as the final arbiter in these matters and, in fact, has been looked upon as fulfilling the role of the Minister. It was in the time of the former Minister. I understand that the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has now insisted that the Council for Aboriginal Affairs be directly responsible to him. If that is so, it is a very good step in the right direction to ensure that the Minister has complete responsibility for the conduct of Aboriginal affairs and the conduct of his Department. I return to what I said earlier. The turtle project was started without the necessary permit to export being obtained and without the position in relation to sales tax being ascertained. I think it is true to say that the exercise got off to a very bad start. I think that it has been somewhat of a disaster. I hope that heads are not being rolled unscrupulously to try to cover up a situation that has not yet improved. 
I conclude by saying that I hope that all these allegations by  Senator Georges  which have not yet been proved or disproved are not swept under the rug. He is a man who has had a sincere and genuine interest in Aboriginal affairs, probably for as long as the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I gauge from his reaction that he is a very distressed and unhappy man because of the way in which he has been treated just to preserve the status and position of  Dr Bustard. Dr Bustard  has been reinstated, whilst  Senator Georges  has been sacked as the  chairman  of a company in respect of which he was given a charter to try to overcome some of its difficult economic and financial problems. I hope that it is not the intention of the Government to try to whitewash the whole of this turtle farming project on the basis of the 2 reports which have been presented today. I do not believe that those 2 reports are good enough. I ask that the Auditor-General make a report to the Parliament in the not too distant future on the operations of the 2 marketing enterprises. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! 

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Government agree with the Victorian Government to take over complete responsibility for Aboriginal housing as announced by the Victorian Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Dickie)  on 4 September 1973. 
Can the Minister say whether  Mr Dickie  said 22 days later that he had receiveda letter from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs requesting the Victorian Government to maintain administrative responsibility for Aboriginal housing; if so, was such a letter sent. 
Does the Australian Government intend to take over complete responsibility for Aboriginal affairs from the relevant State departments on 1 January 1974. 
Is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs sufficiently staffed and equipped to assume total administrative responsibility for Aboriginal affairs throughout Australia on 1 January 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In establishing a departmental committee to review and screen all applications for loans, advances and grants for Aboriginal enterprises, did the Government include officials from the Department of Treasury and the Auditor-General's Office to help the committee in its task; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that the Council for Aboriginal Affairs was established by the late Prime Minister Holt to advise him on Aboriginal opinion, is it proposed to abolish this Council upon the first meeting of the National Advisory Council which is now being elected. 
Asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What were the Commonwealth valuations at the time of purchase of the properties of Willowra and Kildurk in the Northern Territory which were financed with grants from the Aboriginal Trust Account. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Has the National Capital Development Commission completed its examination of the car parking space requirements in the Civic area of Canberra to cope with the increasing needs of the next two years. 
If not, when will its examination be concluded and the report made public. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the legal Aid Service have any role in connection with Aboriginal tribal law; if so, in what manner. 
asked the Minister for the Capita] Territory, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost of collecting cans, bottles and litter in the Australian Capital Territory, especially in public places such as parks, recreation areas and waterways, in 1973-74. 
Will he study the penalties that are applicable to litter bugs in Singapore with a view to implementing similar deterrents in the Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What were the Commonwealth valuations at the time of purchase at Glenairy/Sunnyside, New South Wales, and the Baptist Theological College, Brisbane, which were financed with grants from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account. 
asked the Minister representing the 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the Minister's statement on 25 October 1973 that he favoured an all party standing committee to screen all applications for loans, advances and grants for Aboriginal enterprises, did he authorise a statement which appeared in 'The Australian' of 8 November 1973 that a review committee of 7 Second Division officers of the Department would be established. 
If so, why was the statement not made in the Parliament which was then sitting. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
In view of the high rate of livestock loss and damage to property in rural areas of the Australian Capital Territory, caused by thieves and vandals as well as by workmen on the Tuggeranong development, will he (a) provide rangers and police patrols to protect the property and livestock of rural residents of the A.C.T. from thieves and vandals and (b) ensure that the rights of rural lessees are respected by surveyors, planners and other workmen employed on the Tuggeranong development. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Auditor-General carrying out a full inquiry into the specific recommendations by the Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation arising from its investigations into the Turtle farming project in the Torres Strait; if not, why, not. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
In view of his stated determination to take over the responsibilities of the States for welfare and advancement of Aboriginal people, what plans has the Government approved to improve housing, recreation and living conditions in Wreck Bay over which it has direct responsibility and control. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Council for Aboriginal Affairs has had no meetings since March 1973. 
If so, in what capacity was  Dr Coombs  taking decisions or advising on Aboriginal affairs between the March meeting and the termination of the Aboriginal Affairs portfolio of the honourable Member for Wills. 
If the  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs acted as adviser during this period, who did he advise. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Was a grant made to the Born Free Club; if so, for what purposes. 
What sum was made available to the Club. 
Was this grant made from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account. 
Who approved the grant. 
Were Michael Hogan, Trevor Lee and William Clancy convicted for stealing $2,500 of this grant money. 
If so, did their defence counsel say that their crime had been made easy for the men because of the manner in which the cheque had been sent. 
If the position is as stated, is it an example of waste of Trust Account money. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the answer to part (1) of my question No. 100 indicate that the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service has no terms of reference. 
If so, will the Minister announce and publish terms of reference for the Legal Aid Service so that the Parliament, the public and the members of the Legal Aid Service understand its role. 
Was the action taken by an officer or officers of the Legal Aid Service in the case of the abduction of Noela Brown in accordance with the intention of the Government when the Service was established. 
What was the legal basis of Noela Brown living with  Mr and Mrs Brown  in Darwin before her abduction. 
To the Prime Minister's knowledge, was  Mr Selwyn  Hausman of the Institute of Criminology present in the room when  Mr McLeod's  revolver was unloaded or, to the Prime Minister's knowledge, did  Mr Hausman  know that the revolver was loaded? Is  Mr Hausman  a member of the legal profession? Was he at the court hearing? Did he take any steps to ensure that the correct facts were given to the court? If he did not, is he in breach of his obligations to the court as a member of the legal profession? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes I do. In the course of his emotional outburst the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said, as my 2 colleagues have mentioned, that 3 former Country Party Ministers for the Interior had shown racist antiAboriginal sentiments. I take very grave exception to this unfair allegation. I make it perfectly clear so that it is on the record that I am not a racist, nor do I condone racism. I am certainly not anti-Aboriginal. Indeed, I represent more Aborigines in this Parliament than 90 per cent of the people who sit in it. I have spent more of my time, since coming to this Parliament, concerning myself with the problems of Aboriginal welfare than with any other specific issue. I object to the remarks made by the Prime Minister. I resent them. 1 believe that the Prime Minister owes me a personal apology. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's answer to my question No. 1298 (Hansard, 26 November 1973, page 3867) does the Audit Act make provision for the collection and payment of public moneys and the audit of the public accounts and the protection of public property. 
Is the Minister the sole shareholder in Applied Ecology Pty Ltd, Islander Marketing Pty Ltd, and Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd. 
Has the Minister contributed any funds other than moneys appropriated by the Parliament. 
Was there any other source of revenue to any of these companies, other than public funds, In the year 1972-73. 
In establishing three companies to spend public money, was it intended to avoid the scrutiny of Parliament and avoid the purposes of the Audit Act; if not, does it effectively do this. 
Will the reports of the chartered accountants who audited the affairs of these companies be made available to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How does a person qualify to be an Aboriginal in order to stand for election to the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. 
What is there to prevent a person who in not of Aboriginal or part Aboriginal descent standing for election. 
In the event of a dispute over qualifications to stand for election, who adjudicates. 
In the absence of legislation, (a) how is such a person selected as adjudicator, (b) what sanctions are there to enforce his decisions and (c) how may an appeal be made from them. 
How many Aborigines were enrolled to vote for Committee representatives in (a) each State, (b) the Northern Territory, (c) the Australian Capital Territory and (d) Jervis Bay, 
How many of those enrolled voted in each State and Territory. 
How many Aborigines who were entitled to enrol failed to do so. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the establishment of the new legal aid office which is charged to give legal services to persons in need, particularly disadvantaged persons such as pensioners, Aborigines and migrants, is it proposed to amalgamate the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service with this wider body. 
If not (a) does this imply that the Aborigines will not be adequately assisted by any authority which is not responsible to the Attorney-General's Department, and (b) what are the precise lines of demarcation between and responsibilities of the two services so far as advice to Aborigines is concerned. 
I support the Bill, and in so doing I should like to draw attention to one of the .most significant paragraphs in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  He said: 
Technical education is an investment in national efficiency. Not only that, the investment in technical skill is often an investment in an individual's creative satisfaction and happiness. 
In a number of speeches in this House over a period I have pleaded the case for the provision of additional assistance in the area of technical education and vocational education throughout Australia. I am pleased that the Minister has introduced this Bill, which is designed to abolish fees for students attending technical colleges or their equivalents throughout Australia. As the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  has said today - and I know that he has said it previously - for too long have educationalists placed insufficient emphasis on the importance of technical college education and of vocational training in secondary schools. In my view there has been an over-emphasis on the need for children to achieve a university degree of some kind of another or to enter upon an academic career. A majority of parents and students alike are hopefully looking forward to the students reaching the university level, whereas there are tremendous openings for young people to enter technical colleges and take their place in a meaningful way in our society. 
Unfortunately, I believe, the over-emphasis that is placed on university education develops an attitude that ignores the increasing need for technicians and other skilled tradesmen in our increasingly technological society. There is a need to reassess the needs of our society in the education opportunities of our young people if we are to provide a fulfilling future for the ever increasing number of schoolleavers. When talking about technical education, other parents will often say to you: 'That is all right for your child, but I want my child to go to a university'. I think that largely this is because we have not given technical colleges their rightful status in our community. There has not been sufficient emphasis on or status given to technical colleges throughout Australia. I know that technical education falls within the constitutional or administrative responsibility of the States. But there is a need to upgrade the status of these colleges to ensure that an increasing stream of suitable students flows into the technical colleges which should have the widest curricula for students. However, this change in direction should begin in the high schools long before the Higher School Certificate level. 
Although there is a growing degree of local decision-making with respect to curricula and general management at the local high school level, there is an even greater need for the teachers on the local scene, the parents and the local community generally to play a greater part in determining the subjects available to pupils in high schools. These subjects surely should have some relevance to local employment opportunities available to children once they leave school. I find in my own area that very often the curricula available to the children often have insufficient relevance to the opportunities awaiting them once they complete their Higher School Certificate. 
One must assume that equal opportunity does not exist for all students, regardless of the abolition of fees and other measures that the Government has taken, if it is the prime intention of education authorities, parents and others to structure the conduct of schools and the curricula on the hope that most students strive to enter either a university, a college of advanced education or a teachers college. Obviously this just cannot happen because the majority of students have neither the aptitude nor the intellectual ability, nor perhaps the interest, to succeed in these institutions. Far too many students are dropping out at the School Certificate level, a great percentage of whom could succeed at technical colleges. The abolition of university, college of advanced education and technical college fees which this Government has introduced, will not in itself make much difference to the opportunities available to our young if we fail to recognise the aptitude of our students, their diverse abilities and the changes 'brought about by this technological age. Until the status of technical colleges is improved by the provision of more finance for more balanced curricula and the introduction of a full range of preemployment classes, it is unlikely that there will be, in a real sense, equal opportunity for our young people. Let us face the fact that not everybody in the community has equal ability in any particular sphere. A great number of people are not suited to academic training at universities but who, nevertheless, are endowed with great technical ability and skills. 
I believe that we could well study the Japanese Vocational Training Act (1958) and the consequences of that legislation. Extensive provision is made for close co-ordination between the programs of technical and vocational training organised by the Minister of Education and the Minister of Labour, and training organised in industry. In Japan, technical education and training for the purpose of developing skilled workers and technicians has been built upon 2 main pillars. Firstly, education at technical schools is under the control of the Minister of Education, and secondly, education at vocational training centres is under the supervision of the Minister of Labour. The trend of national socioeconomic development is changing rapidly from the industrial era to the technological era. Japan was really the first country in the industrial world to make a move to recognise this fact in its education system. 
Increasing provision must be made for vocational training and technical education not only at the latter end of secondary education and after completion of the equivalent of the School Certificate, but also in the earlier years at secondary schools, lt is now becoming evident that many students pass through the fifth and sixth forms acquiring a reasonably good education, but unfortunately they are not trained for any specific vocation. It would appear therefore that from at least the fourth form upwards a greater proportion of vocational weighting should be introduced into the curricula. 
I agree with the honourable member for Barton that special emphasis must be given to the needs of young people in country towns in particular if we are to stop the drift of young people to the cities and prevent further congestion in our already overcrowded major cities. It appears that although the educational system provides a good general education to the fourth form, it then becomes very restrictive in its disciplines to students who wish to remain in the educational environment, but who are not necessarily interested in seeking the sixth form standard or a university degree. 
Aboriginal education has revealed itself in recent times as a very great problem. I mention this because it is apparent to me that in my electorate, where there is a great number of Aboriginal children in towns like Moree, there is not much incentive for many of the Aboriginal pupils to continue with their secondary education because the curriculum that they are following has little relevance to job opportunities in the local area. There is not sufficient weighting in the curriculum for vocational training. This of course is causing a further drift of young Aboriginal people from country areas and their environment to places like Redfern, where they try to find some sort of an existence in circumstances that are not really acceptable to them. I believe that the education system is one of the prime reasons they are in fact leaving country areas. After having completed their few years of schooling, they find they have not been trained for any skilled work and are unable to take skilled jobs that might have been available to them. 
I do not want to delay the House any longer. I have spoken on this matter before. I hope that the inquiry into technical education in Australia, which is already under way, and to which I have made a submission on behalf of my Party, the Australian Country Party, will certainly come up with some of the answers that are necessary to ensure that tech nical education plays a more important part in the general education pattern throughout Australia. I also want to say that at a time when we are looking for increasing productivity, better industrial relations, better management of labour and resources, more emphasis should be given to special courses at technical colleges in these important areas. It is just as important for management to understand the needs of the work force as it is to mobilise resources for profit. It is just as important for the work force to know what its entitlements and responsibilities to management are as it is for the work force to understand the needs of management. Unfortunately, in New South Wales expenditure on technical education has declined relative to expenditure in other areas of education. We hope that in the future we will see an improvement in industrial relations and productivity because I believe that will be one way of overcoming the inflationary spiral with which we live. I believe that the technical education colleges of this country could play a greater part than they are at present in trying to turn out young men and women who will take their places in both management and the work force, each understanding the problems of the other, and making a worthwhile contribution to the economic development of our country. 
I want to commend the Minister for this rather courageous effort in introducing a scheme which is in itself rather costly. But I think that it is an honest attempt to try to bring to the young people of Australia an equal opportunity to attend both universities and technical colleges without the payment of fees. 
It was a great pleasure and a great privilege for those of us who sit in this Parliament to have had an opportunity of witnessing the opening of this the second session of the twenty-eighth Parliament by  Her  Majesty the Queen. On behalf of the citizens of the Division of Gwydir I extend to her their loyalty and affection. Before proceeding further, I wish to deal with the remarkable contribution to this debate that was made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby). His  speech was an extraordinary display of clever footwork by one who desperately needs to explain his deplorable part in the anti-rural policies of his Government. One could be excused for thinking that should he lose his seat he could well take a part in a vaudeville show or in a side show as a sleight of hand trickster or a political acrobat. In any event it is of no wonder he is at pains as a member representing a country seat, the seat of Riverina, to confuse and to cleverly misrepresent his Government's infamous rural policy. I wonder how many people realise how well he twists the facts? How many people fall for his amazing stories?  His  misleading account of the prosperity of his 'rich' farmers in the Riverina have obviously convinced his impressionable Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who only a month ago in Victoria said to a great multitude of farmers: 'You've never had it so good'. This nonsense does not please the farmers in my electorate who share the gross indebtedness of well over $2,000m. 
I simply pose these questions to the Minister: What has happened to the superphosphate bounty which he so loudly supported? What has happened to the old principles of the wheat stabilisation scheme? Where have the income taxation allowances and incentives gone? Where is his $500m rural bank scheme to lend farmers long term loans at  3i  per cent interest? Is he aware that farmers are now paying the highest interest rates in this country for 100 years? It would appear that the Minister is just as mixed up in the immigration problem. Indeed, we have seen the amiable colourful Minister when on his overseas tours successfully confuse the Australian people, our Asian friends, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the ACTU, as well as his own Prime Minister and Government on immigration policy. The cancellation of the easy visa system as it applied to Fiji has caused much anguish to the Fijian people; hence the Dorothy Dix question which was asked in Parliament this morning. Then, of course, we have seen the Philippines debacle where the Prime Minister with the blessing of his Minister arranged for 35 Filipinos to come to Australia to work for the Leyland Motor Corporation. Since then the ACTU has blown the lid and a curious compromise has now emerged. Special committees are now off to the Philippines and to South America to study the situation and to find suitable migrants. So much for Labor's ambivalent immigration policy. 
I now turn to some of the issues that arise from the Speech of Her Majesty. Perhaps the most significant paragraph of the Speech, which was prepared for her by the Government, was this: 
In this session my Government will continue with its policies of reform and innovation. 
One could be forgiven for finding more apt terms or words to describe Labor's policies, terms or words such as policies of dislocation, of confusion, of undermining private enterprise to the advantage of socialism. What an incredible performance. From day to day neither the public nor the Public Service nor the Ministers collectively know what is going to happen next or who is going to say what. This seat of the pants administration is an innovation in executive government, in executive administration. One sees Cabinet reach its decisions after a plethora of personal ministerial advisers have had their say, with Caucus sub-committees screening those decisions and Caucus having its say publicly. In the wings we see the organisations of the Australian Labor Party, the State executives, the Federal Executive, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and of course the irrepressible  Mr Hawke,  all having a slap at Government policy. 
That is nonsense. Of course we have a vote at our Party meetings, but we do not have such a collection of people, groups and committees trying to determine where we go when we are in government. One feels sympathy for the fat cats of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who have the unenviable task of ultimately putting the distorted policies into administrative action. It would appear that this is the open government that we have all heard so much about, split open not just down the middle but in many directions. 
After 15 months of these policies let us assess the performance of the Government in terms of reform and innovation. What has happened to the promised tolerant, more humane, more open Whitlam Government? What has happened to the promised spirit of national co-operation? What has happened to the appealing pre-election Utopian economic and social welfare policies of this Government? We have seen one intolerant action after another taken, one confrontation after another with the State governments, with the doctors, with farmers, with people living in areas outside Sydney and Melbourne, with the mining industries, with the ACTU and  Mr Hawke,  with insurance companies, with building societies and with most sections of the private sector. 
That is exactly true. The former Liberal-Country Party Government's objective of economic growth and improving living standards lies in the dim distance almost obscured by spiralling inflation and speculative activity. The rural industries are bewildered by a range of economic measures and discriminatory actions that have stripped the farmers of over $140m of incentives and benefits that were designed to encourage production and to increase productivity. 
That is so true. One could add $60m to that, making a total of $200m. The farmers have now lost a good many hard won incentives and tariff off-setting compensating measures. Do not say that the 25 per cent across the board tariff reduction has had the effects on the rural sector that have been claimed by the Government. Where have the prices for engines and tractors decreased? Of course they have not decreased; in fact they have increased in most instances. The farmers have had to agree to quite unacceptable stabilisation and marketing schemes or else. This attitude will of course reduce capital reinvestment, destroying the incentive to produce more food and fibres. 
The mining and oil industries are facing uncertainty with exploration in a state of stagnation. In spite of what the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  might say, the rate of exploration in Australia is running at 10 per cent of what it was 3 years ago. 
Some sections of the manufacturing industry are in a state of disarray. The textile industries, many important sections of which are in country locations, are looking to overseas destinations in order to survive. 
In Singleton, that is true. On the industrial front we have seen industrial unrest increasing. In 1973 there was a substantial increase in the duration and dimensions of strikes. Violence was a feature of several strikes. In the 10 months to October 1973, compared with the same period in 1972, the number of disputes showed an increase of 10.4 per cent and the number of working days lost increased by 31 per cent. Worse still, wages lost in these disputes increased by more than 40 per cent. But this is not the whole story. One cannot estimate the number of people who were stood down by these strikes. One cannot easily ascertain the percentage of increase that strikes have added to our inflation and cost of living, but it is considerable. The shortage of goods on the market is largely due to industrial disorder. Strikes, go slow tactics, working to regulations, militant trade union intervention and, to a degree, business uncertainty are causing the shortages that we are experiencing in so many sectors of our economy. 
It was the Prime Minister as the leader of his Party, who boasted to the nation prior to the election that a Labor Government would restore industrial order and ensure good industrial relations. So much for that promise. The worst area of the Whitlam Government's administration has been in the area of economic management. When it assumed office unemployment was moderating and inflation had moderated to a rate of 4.5 per cent a year. Within 12 months inflation has spiralled to 13 per cent a year so that today we have one of the highest inflation rates in the Western world. 
One of the highest, I said. In the period 1961 to 1971 Australia enjoyed the second lowest inflation rate among the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. But today we have among the highest inflation rates of countries in the OECD. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table relating to the inflation rates of the OECD countries. 
I thank the House. I am sure honourable members will be keen to read that information in Hansard tomorrow and they will see what I mean. A whole range of measures has been thrown at the economy in an ad hoc fashion in the desperate hope that they may work. At the same time the Government introduced a highly inflationary Budget, increasing public expenditure and considerably increasing the Public Service. It was an inflationary Budget. Today not only do the export earning industries labour under the load of the highest interest rates for 100 years and spiralling inflation, but they are also at a serious disadvantage in terms of our currency. Due to the equivalent of 3 revaluations upward of the Australian dollar, Australia now has one of the most overvalued currencies in the world. We have even revalued against the Japanese yen by 14 per cent. When the world's supply of products of rural origin comes closer to demand, Australian farmers and exporters will be at a serious disadvantage with their competitors in the United States of America and Canada selling wheat, coarse grains and choice cuts of meat. 
Probably the most serious factor contributing to our inflationary problem is the lack of productivity gains in all levels of industry. An incentive to work is not being provided to the average wage earner and salaried worker or to producers and employers. The present tax scale, not having been adjusted to current inflationary levels, is hitting the lower and middle income groups. It is a sleight of hand method of raising extra Government revenue. It creates dishonesty among people, with persons seeking 2 jobs working under assumed names doing anything to keep something in their pockets from extra efforts expended. Where are the incentives to the industrious to work harder to earn more? Where is the incentive for the producer to produce more. There is a need for a massive incentive program to be evolved by the Government after consultation with unions and employer and producer groups. If a program involves profit sharing, productivity bonuses, union representation on boards of management and lowering the income tax scale, let us have it and let us have it quickly for the sake of this country. All the other fiscal, monetary and other traditional methods are failing to counter inflation because they fail to take into account the fundamentally important human resources of incentive and initiative. This simple human approach would no doubt be alien to the concepts of the socialist advisers of this Government. 
As serious as these and other specific policy issues may be, there is an even greater issue facing the Australian people. It is a philosophical question of far-reaching proportions. The Whitlam Government is clearly a socialist government. The Prime Minister is a selfconfessed socialist. Indeed he is a centralist, believing in unitary government. In Australia, approximately 40 per cent of the electors are keen or traditional supporters of Labor, while 40 per cent of the electors are staunch supporters of the non-Labor parties. There are 20 per cent of voters who are probably indifferent, undecided or uncommitted. It is to those 20 per cent of the Australian people that I make my appeal today. In these circumstances, they cannot afford the luxury of being undecided and uncommitted, now that the Whitlam Government makes no secret of its socialist intentions. The Australian people must decide whether they want a socialist society with one centralist government or a free enterprise society where the freedom and enterprise of the individual is of paramount importance. I am sure the majority of Australians desire the opportunity of being selfemployed, to run their own businesses, to own their own farms and to exploit their own resources for their own reward, rather than a system under which State control is supreme. So long as incentives are made available to such people, it will be these people who collectively will generate the wealth of the nation in an efficient manner. 
The actions of the Whitlam Government in its 15 months in office should lead to no doubt as to where it is leading us politically. Are we to fall to the socialist state, with its subordination of the individual to the officialdom of centralist government, or are we to clamour to ensure that governments are the servants of the people? This profoundly democratic principle has given the British people inspiration, individualism and direction for over 600 years. In 1972 people could have voted Labor in the belief that the Australian Labor Party was a reformed, revitalised and new party and in the belief that it was a party of reform rather than the same old Labor machine with its drab and dreary socialist doctrine. In 1974 let those who support this Government openly admit that they adhere to the socialist philosophy. Let no one who votes for the referenda and the Whitlam Government at the Senate election be heard to complain after the event that they did not know the gun was loaded. Socialism is not creative of human endeavour or initiative or of real wealth. It creates the illusion of wealth by increasing public expenditure and intensifying inflation. Every extension of government power and control means less freedom of choice for the people. Government control is monopolist. Monopolies deny choice. There is no choice for the producer, the customer or the employee. With no choice, there is no freedom. The centralist government, a unitary system of government, means one employer, one planner and one controller, all the ingredients of a monstrous totalitarian system of government, examples of which have blotted the modern history of man. 
I sincerely believe it and if you are fair dinkum that you do not believe it, you watch your own Party. By remaining indifferent to the wealth producing industries and by discriminating against the private sector of the economy, the socialists turn the illusion of wealth into a fraud, with money being worth less and purchasing power less, lt is this illusion of prosperity that reduces the incentive to work and to produce goods. Thus the production rates fall, shortages occur and black market begins and our material and spiritual standards decline. 
In this country, socialism will come in by the back door, through such Bills as the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill, unless we are vigilant. We cannot have socialism without reducing our freedom and we cannot have a controlled economy without government intervention and without controlling the daily lives of humans, who are still the greatest and most important element in the economy. Policies can be turned on and off like a tap but once the collective philosophical direction of our people takes another direction, the whole attitude and character of our people for generations to come will go with it. 
by leave - I certainly would like to support the statement and the report tabled by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  There has been a difficulty for some time with respect to the provision of teachers in the area of special education. 1 am very pleased with the move - I Know that my Party supports it- that has been made by the Minister to ensure that there will be more teachers in this field. 1 do not know why the University of New England was not included. Perhaps it did not apply, but I would hope that the University of New England will also be ableto play its part in future in asisting in such an important program. 
As time goes by the Minister might check on this to see whether the university could help the Government in its program to turn out additional teachers. 
Thank you very much. 
May I be permitted to make one comment before this debate is completely closed? I will not detain the House for any length of time. I would like to make it very clear that the Opposition has supported the Bill before the House but 1 think for the record and in fairness to all concerned I have to reply to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who was very critical of the former Liberal-Country Party Government for, as he wants to convey it, having allowed the wool market to fall to such an extent that wool sold at 30c or 37c per lb. The Minister is an intelligent man but he has an extraordinary capacity to oversimplify and to exaggerate a situation. The Minister would know that the world market forces that were applying at the time referred to were responsible for the fall in the wool market in this country and around the world. We reached a situation where wool prices plummetted and the former Liberal-Country Party Government moved to establish the Australian Wool Commission. The Government financed the operations of the Commission to the point where it bought in 970,000 bales of wool as a stockpile to try to prevent the wool market from collapsing completely. 
I am coming to that. The former Liberal-Country Party Government took that decision in the light of very severe criticism from practically every metropolitan newspaper throughout Australia. Almost every editorial writer had written off the wool industry and the wool growers of this country and wrote in terms of a restructuring of the industry and about doing away with the small wool growers because the wool industry was finished. There were Labor members of the then Opposition who also condemned the Government for having bought in almost one million bales of wool. This happened to be up to December 1971. It was entirely the operations of the Australian Wool Commission, financed and backed by the government of the day, that prevented the wool industry in this country from collapsing completely, and that is the truth of the situation. 
It is no use trying to make political capital because wool prices went up to some record figure last year. Wool prices are now 57 per cent below the price peak at this time last year, but I am not going to blame the Labor Government for that. This happens to be a world market problem. The Japanese have gone out of the market for reasons best known to themselves. I am sure that the Minister for Immigration, who is sitting at the table, would not want to take the blame for the current fall in wool prices. Conversely it is not right for people in this Parliament, where the truth is expected to be told, to try to convey an incorrect interpretation or an incorrect presentation of the reasons why the wool market collapsed in those dreadful years. It does not become anybody to try to make cheap political capital out of an event that has passed. I make no apology whatsoever for the steps that the former Liberal-Country Party Government took to try to see the wool industry through one of the worst crises in its history. But for the assistance that was given thousands of wool growers around Australia would have left their farms for good. So let the record show that it was the actions that were taken in association with the wool growers of this country that time which enable us to talk even today or to debate a Bill like this because the industry is still in existence. 
I hope that if the wool market should start to fall again - as indeed it is - at an escalating rate this Government will have the same courage and fortitude as did the former Government in the face of public criticism to back the Australian Wool Corporation and the wool industry with the funds that will be needed to buy up the wool and hold it in reserve until demand increases. I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for giving me the opportunity to try to put the record straight. 

 Mr GRASSBY (Riverina- Minister for Immigration) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In the Prime Minister's judgment from what date does  Mr Gair's  appointment - 
I certainly support the motion before the Parliament. The constitutional provisions relating to an electoral redistribution are set out, in section 25 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, which states: (1.) A re-distribution of any State into Divisions shall be made in the manner hereinbefore provided whenever directedby the Governor-General by proclamation. (2.) Such proclamation may be made - 
Whenever an alteration is made in the number of members of the House of Representatives to be elected for the State; 
Clearly the Government has a constitutional responsibility to provide for a redistribution in Western Australia prior to the next election, which we anticipate will be held on 18 May. Far from being opposed to this kind of action in 1972, as the then Minister for the Interior I was completely in support of the proposal to carry out the redistribution. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  would remember that the final figures from the Commonwealth Statistician did not come to hand until 27 September, and the day they came to hand the Chief Electoral Officer furnished a certificate which was tabled in this Parliament. I quote from a speech that the then Prime Minister made on 28 September. 
-In 1972. The then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  said: 
The Chief Electoral Officer has advised the Government that there is not now sufficient time to give effect to a redistribution of any State before the forthcoming House of Representatives elections. Nevertheless, the Government believes that it has an obligation to set in motion the machinery for a redistribution of Western Australia so as to ensure that that State gains its entitlement of an extra member from the beginning of the 29th Parliament. The Government therefore proposes to recommend to the Governor-General the appointment of distribution commissioners for Western Australia. 
Of course allegations were made, I think by the honourable member for Swan, and certainly by the then Leader of the Opposition, that the then Government was hedging on this issue. I pointed out to the House at the time that in fact it took between 28 and 30 weeks from the time that the certificate was issued to actually carry out a redistribution. Certain statutory obligations and limitations are imposed upon a government under the Representation Act. There are 14 separate steps that must be taken in accordance with statutory times, so it was impossible between 27 September 1972 and a proposed election day before the end of that year to undertake a redistribution in Western Australia. Let us get the record clear on that. I do not think the present Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  interestingly enough the shadow Minister responsible for electoral matters at the time, was guilty of making those charges. Perhaps he understood the Electoral Act and its requirements better than most other members of the then Opposition. He too undoubtedly has found that there is a time lag involved from the time that commissioners are appointed until the Parliament is able to debate a matter such as this. So let us not try to distort the facts and go back over the old ground that I covered effectively on 28 September 1972. 
I well recall the moves that were made to initiate steps for a redistribution in Western Australia but, I said earlier the Chief Electoral Officer,  Mr Ley,  was not able to furnish a certificate until he had the final figures which ultimately disclosed that Western Australia was entitled to an additional seat. One of the interesting facts that has emerged already from the redistribution in Western Australia is the number of electors in the various divisions at the time of previous redistribution on 19 October 1973. In Canning, the commissioners decided on a division in which the number of electors was 7.6 per cent below the quota for each State electorate. In Curtin the number was 12.43 per cent above; in Forrest it was 3.42 per cent below; in Fremantle it was 9.12 per cent above; in Kalgoorlie it was 1S.S7 per cent below; in Moore it was 6.3 per cent below; in the proposed division of Tangney it was 5.01 per cent below; in Perth it was 9.44 per cent above; in Stirling it was 5.06 per cent below and in Swan it was 14.12 per cent above. The shift of population that has taken place between that time and the end of February this year has been incredible. In Canning there has already been a movement of 1 per cent so that today Canning is 6.76 per cent below its quota. In Curtin there has been a shift of nearly 2 per cent and the number of electors is now 10.59 per cent above the quota. In Forrest it is 6.77 per cent below, which is a shift 1 per cent. In Fremantle there has been a shift of 4 per cent and remember that I am talking about what has happened in a matter of 4 months. 
In the electorate of Moore, which is changing its population character considerably at the time when the boundaries were redrawn the number of electors was 6.3 per cent below the quota. The number today is 0.92 per cent below the quota, which shows that the population has climbed rapidly since the redistribution. I think the electorate of Moore represented by  Mr Maisey  is indicative of the necessity that there be at least a 20 per cent tolerance above or below a quota for any division within a State, particularly within those States with vast and rapidly moving populations and with population shifts on the outer fringes of cities. Surely the trend of population becomes an important factor in trying to arrive at a mean or average for each electorate throughout Australia of within each State border. There is no way in the world that the elusive concept of one vote one value can be achieved unless there is a redistribution the day after a census and an election the next day or very closely to it. That is physically impossible. So those who advocate a policy of redistribution - whether it be car- ried out on the basis of number of population or on number of electors - based on anything less than 20 per cent above or below a quota are really not fully aware of the tremendous distribution changes of population that are taking place. 
 It does not necessarily favour the country seats. It depends on the trend. If the Commissioners were to take into account the trend of population they would find that it could favour seats on the outer fringes of the city areas. 
 The Commissioners have a responsibility to read the terms and conditions under which a redistribution shall be carried out. It is then up to this Parliament to debate the issue and determine whether it accepts the Commissioners' recommendations. In most cases - I am sure that in all cases - no one in this place would be prepared to say that the Commissioners were biased or that they would take a biased view. The Commissioners have taken into consideration a range of criteria such as geographical features, the size of electorates, the difficulties that representatives have in trying to represent vast areas as against small areas, and of course the new element which is the trend of population particularly in our outer fringe city electorates. 
In the electorate of Moore one can see that in a period of 4 months there has already been a 6 per cent variation. At that rate the variation could he up to 20 per cent in 3 to 4 years. But who is to say that the population of Moore will increase continuously at that rate? That is a matter which the Commissioners have to assess in order to arrive at a figure of tolerance for each of the electorates. These figures prove to me beyond any doubt that there is a need to continue to take into account the various criteria that were spelt out in the Electoral Act of 1965. Let me read them out. The factors to be considered are community of interests within the Division, including economic, social and regional interests; means of communication and travel within the Division, with special reference to disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance; the trend of population changes within the State; the density or sparsity of population of the Division; the area of the Division; the physical features of the Division; and existing boundaries of Divisions and subdivisions. 
Although the redistribution will probably change the character of a great number of electorates on the outskirts of Perth, I believe that the Commissioners have taken these factors into account in trying to arrive at the various possible redistributions of electoral boundaries in Western Australia. I share the view that was expressed by other speakers, that the Minister has made a wise decision in choosing to name the new seat Tangney, because it will honour the first women's representative in this Parliament. 
 I support this Bill. When I was Minister for the Interior in the previous Government I came under some criticism for not having moved to create an additional seat in the Australian Capital Territory. It was not that I was opposed to the idea philosophically or for any real reason, but that I foresaw ultimately a redistribution, perhaps in the life of the next Parliament, would ensure that the Australian Capital Territory should get its additional seat. Events have overtaken the situation. The House is agreeing to what &gt;is a quite unusual step in that the distribution commissioners' reports have not been presented or tabled. To cope with the urgency of the possibility of an election on 18 May this Bill has been introduced to ensure the creation of a new seat in the Australian Capital Territory. The Bill takes into account the enormous population increase that has occurred in the Australian Capital Territory during the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party governments. 
I know that the Minister does not like that comment, but we take some credit for the development of what is a beautiful national capital and for a population increase to almost 200,000. The people of the Australian Capital Territory deserve an additional seat in the House of Representatives. I was impressed with an observation of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  It was a shrewd observation. He knows the people of Canberra extremely well. He said that when there is a second seat the people will elect a Labor member and a non-Labor member. If they are shrewd they will probably play one against the other to achieve an even better deal for the Australian Capital Territory. Some people think that because a new seat is to be created in Canberra it will be a seat for the Labor Party. I should like to dispel that idea. Ultimately the results may prove me wrong, but I think that in the final wash we will see one seat in the Australian Capital Territory held by the Labor Party and the other seat held by a non-Labor Party member or an independent. Whatever the outcome, the people of the Australian Capital Territory deserve and have the right to a second member for the Australian Capital Territory. I do not know which one the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  will contest. 
The hardest side. 
He says that he will be very courageous in contesting that seat. He thinks it will be the toughest one. Anyway, the decision will be up to the people. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
How many people were on the waiting lists for Government (a) houses and (b) single, double and three bedroom flats as at 31 December 1973. 
What was the average delay in providing those on the waiting lists with (a) a house and (b) a flat as at 31 December 1973. 
How do these delays compare with the delays in previous years. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice: 
Will the Government establish a housing authority in the A.C.T. on the lines of the decision of the previous Government; if so, when. (2)If not, will he indicate whether a housing authority will be established in the A.C.T. on other lines. 
If a housing authority is not to be established what is the reason. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What are the names of those who have been appointed to the Australian Capital Territory Agents Board. 
What are their qualifications to serve on the Board. 
What will be their responsibilities. 
For what reason did he alter the former membership of the Board. 
asked the Minister representing representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by the Minister for the Northern Territory that a clash between whites and blacks in the Northern Territory is inevitable. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to the pre-election speech of the Prime Minister in which he said that the Australian Labor Party will establish once and for all Aborigines' rights to land and insist that, whatever the law of George III says, a tribe and a race with an identity of centuriesofmillenia is proprietary company. 
Can he say whether the latter statement has raised doubts in the minds of property owners outside Aboriginal reserves as to the security of their tenure and raised expectations among Aborigines that land now held by others will be given to them. 
When does the Government expect to receive the report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission. 
Pending this report, have all applications by Aborigines for titles to land on reserves been frozen; if so, how many applications have been frozen. 
When will the Government make a decision on this report so that doubts may be set at rest and a reduction in tension between the races brought about. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to my question No. 1338 of 15 November 1973, what is the definition of the term Aboriginal for the purposes of legal assistance which would be given by the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service and which would not be available to other Australians. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to my question No. 1341 of 15 November 1973, does the Minister intend to establish an all-Party committee, as foreshadowed in his statement in the Senate on 25 October 1973, to screen all applications for loans, advances and grants for Aboriginal enterprises; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What is the establishment of the Legal Service Bureaux in each State and Territory. 
What was the cost of the Bureaux in the year ended 30 June 1973. 
What is the proposed establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Offices in each State and Territory, inclusive of Head Offices. 
What will be the total cost of staff salaries, accommodation and support services of the proposed establishment in a full year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Was  Dr Bustard  in Australia on 5 March 1974; if not, where was he. 
What was the reason for his continued visits to Edinburgh, Scotland, at public expense. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the vacant position of Director in charge of the Northern Territory Division of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs been advertised inside and outside the Public Service. 
Was  Mr Harry  Giese formerly the holder of a similar position in the Department of the Interior. 
Is  Mr Giese  (a) still a member of the Public Service, (b) resident in Darwin and (c) effectively unemployed. 
If so, why did the Secretary of the Department not appoint  Mr Giese  to the vacant position before advertising it outside the Public Service. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration is supplementary to a question asked by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. Is the Minister aware that the new federal roads plan has been described by the Acting Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Charles  Cutler, as disastrous and that the cut-back in funds provided for rural roads will mean the retrenchment of about 2,000 employees of shire councils in New South Wales? Would the Minister confer with the New South Wales Minister for Local Government with the objective of ensuring that the savage reduction in the availability of funds for country roads does not cause the hardship of unemployment to 2,000 employees of shire councils in New South Wales? Will special grants be made available to local governing bodies in that State to enable them to try to initiate projects to compensate for the loss in funds provided for rural roads? 
Having listened to the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  I feel that I, as one who represents one of the largest wool producing and meat producing electorates in Australia, should rise tonight and appeal to the Whitlam Government. I do so in an objective sense and in no way in a political sense. Clearly the Australian wool industry will suffer yet another crisis unless the Government shows nerve and strength and quickly indicates its willingness to support the present buying policy of the Australian Wool Corporation during this series of sales. I listened with interest to the reply that the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  gave to my colleague, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  this morning. It appeared that he was in some sympathy with the wool industry and the difficulties confronting the Australian Wool Corporation. But this sympathy certainly was not shared by a number of his colleagues, notably the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who was busily interjecting whilst his colleague was answering the question. The Minister for Northern Development now has his chance, along with the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  in another place, to prove whether they have what it takes to win this battle for the industry. 
In spite of Press reports, the sale this week is not the opening of the new selling season. It is a deferred sale, closing the old season. It was deferred because of recent industrial stoppages. Although the Australian Wool Corporation bought in over 57 per cent of the offering yesterday and over 60 per cent of the offering today, there are only 2 days left in this deferred series. It is essential that the Government backs the Corporation to the hilt during the last 2 days of this extended series. If the Government does not support the Corporation, the Corporation can exercise its power to cancel the sales and make advances to the Australian woolgrowers who have their clips up for offer in this series. I submit that it would be a wicked injustice to the woolgrowers who are the victims of industrial stoppages if the Government ran away from its responsibility at this important time. 
I am confident that if the Corporation was forced to exercise its power to cancel the sales and to make advances to the affected growers - a decision quite within its power - the brokers would be prepared to make their contributions to clear delivery and so on. However, surely this should not be necessary. The Government has a clear responsibility to support the policy of the Australian Wool Corporation over the next 2 days. Clearly the trade and the buyers are testing the nerve of the Australian Government at a time when they do not like the July sales anyway and when deferred stocks are being offered. If the Government backs away from the Corporation and the woolgrowers now there will be serious economic repercussions not just for the Australian wool industry but also for the Australian economy. 
I recall that in November 1971 when the Australian Wool Commission sought the backing of the Liberal-Country Party Government for a guarantee to borrow $30m from the private trading banks, enormous pressures built up against the Commission and against the Australian woolgrowers. Certain interests used every device at their disposal to intimidate the Government and the industry. I am sure that the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  who is at the table, was well aware of the pressures from vested interests both here and overseas that were brought to bear at that time to try to stop the $30m going to the Australian Wool Commission, as it was known at that time. The national Press was opposed to further assistance. It was prepared to write off the Australian wool industry. It was prepared to desert the wool industry in its hour of need, thinking that Australia had found a new source of wealth - the mineral industries. From the day that the guarantee was given by the Liberal-Country Party Government to the Commission, the market stabi lised and the prices began to rise. At the end of 1971 the Commission held well over 900,000 bales of stocks. As the market improved the stocks were cleared. It was a test of nerve and strength but the Government and the industry won the battle in the interests of Australia. Not a cent of that S30m was used. It was kept in a trust credit account with the private trading banks. Wool prices subsequently rose to almost their highest levels on record. 
Surely there is a lesson in this for the Whitlam Government. Well over $20m must still be available at this time to the Australian Wool Corporation to enable it to trade and to do the job that it is doing at present. It should use its resources to stave off this challenge by the merchants, the traders and others who have a vested interest to see the commodity prices of wool fall in this country and in other wool producing countries. The Government must not panic or give, in to the antiindustry, anti-rural elements of its own Party. The wool industry is still the greatest single industry in Australia. 
Australia and South Africa between them supply 94 per cent of the world apparel wool requirements. We should not be bullied for short term profit purchases by overseas profiteers. 
The world wool stocks are not high. Japan's stocks are 18 per cent lower than they were at this time last year. In the United Kingdom stocks are 25 per cent lower, in France 23 per cent lower, in Italy 28 per cent lower, in West Germany 68 per cent lower, in Belgium 67 per cent lower and in the United States of America 2.5 per cent lower than they were at this time last year. In Australia our sheep population has fallen from 180 million in 1970 to 148 million this year and our own stocks are low. The Japanese worsted yarn stocks are high at 33,000 tonnes as against a norm of approximately 20,000 tonnes. However, information that has come to me in the course of this day indicates that in the coming autumn and winter the prospects for the Japanese worsted industry are bright. Japan is temporarily out of the market, but it is clear that she will be coming back into our market in our spring and summer. Therefore, it would be an act of crass stupidity to allow our price levels to slump over the next 2 days of this week, thus lowering the base price level for the opening of the new selling season next month. 
With the prospects for meat exports dismal and with mineral export prices declining the Australian economy cannot afford a crash in the Australian wool market. It is no good the Minister for Social Security being so half smart about the Australian wool industry in its hour of need as he was this morning at question time because he is going to require thousands of millions of dollars to carry out the social welfare ambitions of the Government. He will not be able to carry out those ambitions without viable wealth producing industries. The Australian wool industry will be one of those industries that will be contributing to the sort of policies that he has in mind. If the Australian wool industry is deserted over the next 2 days by the Australian Government, I believe that this event in itself will lead very quickly to the ultimate devaluation of the Australian dollar, an event that would no doubt compound the complex economic mess in which the Whitlam Government now finds itself. If the Government wants to show that it has any sympathy or common sense in the field of production, it will stand by the Australian Wool Corporation over the next 2 days and will allow the Corporation to confer with the Government in the interim period between the end of this week and the commencement of the new wool selling season. 
I rise to support the Canberra Water Supply (Googong Dam) Bill, and I am sure that is a fairly predictable stance for me because 'most of the. early planning for this project was done during the time that I was Minister for the Interior and when I had a responsibility for the National Capital Development Commission. I am well aware of the urgency of the measure because of the existing water supply problem for the city of Canberra and the Queanbeyan region. As the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  said in his second reading speech, the present facilities will supply the Canberra-Queanbeyan water requirements only until the year 1975-76. This does indicate the need to plan well ahead to provide this region with its water requirements. I have no doubt that the NCDC and other government bodies are planning further ahead to cope with the need that will arise by 1982-85 when the Googong Dam water supply will have met the total requirements of the city. 
Even with the provision of the Googong Dam, assuming that its construction commences in the immediate future, undoubtedly there will be some need, in the event of a dry summer or two, for some water restrictions before we are able to bring additional water supplies to the city of Canberra. So I can understand why the Minister has sought a fairly swift passage of this Bill; it is to accommodate the needs of the city and the whole of the area. I know how carefully the NCDC and the Minister have negotiated with the New South Wales authorities in regard to this matter and how helpful the Commonwealth Government has been, and would have been even had there not been a change of government, to the Queanbeyan area which undoubtedly will benefit to a considerable extent from the provision of this project. 
I, like the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  raise the point that it is regrettable that the environmental impact study has not been tabled and has not been made public. I think it must become a feature of government to table such studies with every project of this nature, whether or not it is being carried out by the NCDC Let us face it; the National Capital Development Commission should not have any prior right to be exempt from the scrutiny of the Department of the Environment and Conservation. I hope that in the future any proposal for a project of this type will be accompanied by an environmental impact study for the benefit of those who are concerned about environmental matters. Of course, a very big environmental factor is attached to the construction of the Googong Dam. This has been mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech. I refer to the Captains Flat area which has been the source of considerable concern for some time because of the degree of pollution that it does occasion to the Canberra lake. The Canberra lake, of course, is becoming a pretty good sump for all sorts of deposits. The city of Queanbeyan seems to have great difficulty in containing its sewage. The Canberra lake is almost becoming a still pool for the city of Queanbeyan and its environs over the border. It certainly would be unfortunate if the authorities, both in New South Wales and in the Australian Capital Territory, could not contain either the underground seepage of water from Captains Flat - there is some suspicion that there is some seepage underground - or the waste that is run off into the system. Undoubtedly by 1982-85, when the degree of flow from the Googong Dam will be lessened there will be less capacity to flush out the Molonglo River. The Captains Flat pollution problem will then intensify the environmental problems of the Canberra lake. 
I do not want to delay the House, but I am sure that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  will quietly agree with me that with every works project of this type there should be tabled an environmental impact study, whether it recommends that the project go on or whether it recommends that it should not. I think that the public generally expects this of governments today because of the increasing despoliation of our environment by greater numbers of people, by industrialisation and all forms of development. I commend the Bill and well understand the degree of urgency that the Government places on it in trying to get it through both Houses of the Parliament. I hope that there will be a degree of continued co-operation between the Australian Government and the New South Wales Government. I hope also that the landholders in the area are compensated at the earliest opportunity for land resumption. 
Well, we might have a talk about that later, and 1 hope that I can give the honourable member some support if his idea is sound and practical. 1 am sure that the honourable member for Hunter would not be putting to me a proposition that is not worth supporting. But we will have a look at the honourable member's idea to see whether we can help the coal fields in the Hunter area. In fact, we might go up and have a look at them some day. I might even accompany the Minister for the Environment and Conservation to see whether we can protect that delightful area of New South Wales. However, I was about to make the point that it is very important to ensure that the land owners in the area are paid their due compensation at the earliest opportunity. I find that governments are very slow in making settlement for land  resumption, and this often causes great hardship for the people concerned. They have to re-settle, re-invest and re-establish themselves in other forms of activity. I ask the Minister to ensure that those people who have had their land resumed are adequately compensated. I know that they will be adequately compensated under the terms of the Lands Acquisition Act, but 
I hope that the Minister will ensure that the settlement is expedited. I am sure that the Minister will respond to this point in his reply. 
I rise to support briefly the resolution and to support the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  in the sentiments that he expressed. He expressed some concern about the speed with which the progress towards executive responsibility in the Northern Territory is taking place. I do not want to recount the full program that was offered to the Northern Territory as the result of a statement that I made, as Minister for the Interior, in this House on 25 Otcober 1972. But after some months of negotiation and discussion, both within the various responsible departments and between the Ministers responsible for those departments and the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory, we came to a package arrangement which was designed to transfer executive responsibility to the Northern Territory legislature. At its June sitting in 1972 the Northern Territory Legislative Council passed a resolution in the following terms: 
This Council, notwithstanding its expressed dissatisfaction with the extent of constitutional changes discussed in the recent conference between delegates nf this Council and Federal Ministers, asks the 
Commonwealth Government to make a firm offer of the changes in form of the Government for the Northern Territory it is now proposed to make and of any other progressive proposals to which it is prepared to commit itself for future constitutional development. This Council acknowledges that transfer of executive powers to the Northern Territory would carry with it some responsibility for appropriate revenue raising. 
Of course, the statement that was made on 25 October was in response to that resolution. The full offer is contained in the booklet entitled 'Northern Territory Form of Government' and it was recorded in Hansard at that time. 
I go back over that ground for the purpose of showing that for some considerable time, both in the term of the last Government and since the Whitlam Government assumed office in 1972, discussions have been going on as to how we can transfer executive responsibility to the Northern Territory Legislative Council. If my memory serves me correctly, the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  was pretty much in agreement with the offer that was made at that time. 
That is true. I remember his contribution to the debate in October 1972, when he was critical of our Government for not having gone fast enough. In a sense I felt that perhaps we could have gone a little faster than we had gone, but I was mindful of the enormously complex problems that existed both within the structure of the Public Service and in trying to define the areas of relative responsibility as between the Commonwealth Government and a Legislative Council with executive power. I know that this Committee will press on with its hearings and try to achieve a recommendation that it can put to this Parliament and ultimately to the Government as the basis of further discussions on an enlarged Legislative Council. Of course, we did recommend in October that the Legislative Council be enlarged, that it be a fully elected Council and that it have executive responsibility. My hope now is that there will not be much further delay. 1 am pleased to see that in the Australian Capital Territory, for instance, there are moves towards embodying executive authority within a fully elected legislature. In the same way I believe that the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory has a right to determine the order of priorities that it considers best for the people of the Northern Territory. If there is to be in the Northern Territory an elected legislature with 19 or 20 members - it does not matter how many - it must assume responsibility for determining the priorities for expenditure and some responsibility for raising the revenue, or at least some of the revenue, to meet those priorities. I know that in the Northern Territory there has been a fear that if too much power is given to the Legislative Council it will mean a much higher cost and tax structure for the people in the Territory. I do not altogether go along with that, because if the elected representatives prove to be unacceptable to the people of the Northern Territory undoubtedly they will be voted out of office at the next election. That, of course, is how the democratic process should work. 
But I cannot stress too much the need to get on with the job. I do not believe that the actions which have been taken to date have been good enough. The suggestion that the Northern Territory should have two 3-year senators in my judgment does not compensate in any way for the slowness in achieving a form of constitutional advancement for the Northern Territory. I am sure that the Minister quietly agrees with the line that I adopt. I hope that the Committee can get on with the job as I am sure the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  would be wanting it to get on with the job. I will bet London to a brick on that when the Committee finally comes down with a recommendation it will not be too far away from the recommendation contained in the 1972 report to this Parliament. 
-! do not intend to take up much time at this hour of the night because I know that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is trying to get this Glebe Lands (Appropriation) Bill through the House before 10.30. I rise for 2 purposes. Firstly, I make it clear that I am not opposing the Bill and, secondly, I shall respond to a mention which 1 received in dispatches in the Minister's second reading speech. It is not often that a lowly creature like an honourable member of the Opposition gets a mention in a second reading speech; nevertheless I was mentioned. The Minister joined issue with me for what I said at a meeting in Sydney of the Real Estate Institute of New South Wales where I gave a very distin- guished address on 25 June called 'Co-operative Approach :o Urban Development'. I said that this Glebe project was undertaken without consultation with State or local governments. 1 said that up to that time there was no knowledge of what was planned or how the project would be implemented. I made that statement in good faith because that was the information, in a broad sense, which I received from the authorities in New South Wales. That is fairly correct, although it is not totally correct. 
In chronological order I shall give the way in which the Minister and his Department have negotiated with the New South Wales authorities. At no stage has there been any official approach to the Minister for Housing or to the  Chairman  of the New South Wales Housing Commission, either orally or in writing, from the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in relation to the Glebe property. It is understood that some minor discussion took place between one or two officers of the Minister's Department and officers of the Housing Commission. That was on a very shallow level. On 30 May 1973 the Minister wrote to  Sir Charles  Cutler relative to his proposal to commission a feasibility study. I have a letter attached to these notes which I shall table. In the absence of  Sir Charles  Cutler overseas the Minister's letter was acknowledged by the acting Minister,  Mr Jago,  on 1 June. There was an attached letter which I shall also table. On 2 June the Minister for Urban and Regional Development sent  Mr Jago  a telegram advising that a firm of consultants had been appointed and that he expected to have their report by the end of July. Following personal representations to him by  Mr Degen  M.L.A., on behalf of the Leichhardt Municipal Council, the Minister wrote to  Sir Charles  Cutler on 27 August 1973 asking him to keep the Premier informed of developments at Glebe. No further contact whatever was made by the Minister or by his Department with  Sir Charles  Cutler or his Department. The next development was an announcement in the Sydney 'Morning Herald' of 8 April 1974 that Federal Cabinet had that day approved of the purchase of Church of England Land, 47 acres, at Glebe, at a cost of $17. 5m. On 17 May  Sir Charles  Cutler wrote to the Premier advising him that no further approach had been made to him. I seek leave to table the relevant corerspondence which demonstrates the points. 
Yes. As one who has spoken to  Mr Claude  Renshaw. who has bee,i named - 
 I am one who has spoken to him,  Mr Speaker. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of the importance of Christmas Island as a source of phosphate, and in view of its strategic significance, does the Government propose to incorporate this territory within the Commonwealth of Australia. 
If not, what are the Government's plans for the future of Christmas Island. 
I rise tonight to discuss the importance of the Australian Wool Corporation and the very important role that it plays in marketing Australia's most important export income earner. Wool is still Australia's most important export trading commodity and, according to legislation, the Australian Wool Corporation has been given the very important task of marketing this clip. I am concerned that some of the happenings of the past week could in some way discredit the reputation and the integrity of an organisation that is doing a tremendous job for the Australian wool industry, the wool growers within it and the people who depend on the industry for their living, whether shearers, people living in country towns or supporting the trade in one way or another. 
The Australian Wool Corporation assumes an importance not just to the industry and those depending upon it but also to Australia as a nation. The export income earning industries will undoubtedly assume an even greater importance to the Australian economy as time goes on and when we face all sorts of internal economic problems. Therefore, it is essential that nothing is done in what is a difficult world trading situation to disrupt or impair Australia's capacity to sell wool, wheat, meat, ores or any product that can earn foreign exchange on the overseas markets. The Australian Government has embarked upon what is a most ambitious social welfare program. Its education program alone is going to cost many millions of dollars. This Government will have to rely upon the export income earning industries perhaps more heavily than any government has relied upon them in the past. Of course, the attacks that have been made upon the people serving on the Australian Wool Corporation are to be deplored. 
I should like to read from the Wool Industry Act the section relating to the way in which the members of the Australian Wool Corporation are appointed. It states: 
(1.) The Corporation shall consist of nine members, namely: - 
a Chairman; 
four members to represent Australian wool growers; 
one member to represent the Commonwealth; and 
three other members. (2.) The members shall be appointed by the Minister, the  Chairman  being appointed as a full-time member and the other members being appointed as part-time members. (3.) Before appointing the members referred to in paragraph (d) of sub-section (1.) of this section, the Minister shall consult the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
Honourable members should bear in mind that the Australian Wool Industry Conference is comprised of equal representation from the 2 major constitutent wool growing bodies in Australia - the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council and the Australian Wool and Meat Producers' Federation. Those organisations elect in a truly democratic fashion representation upon each of the national bodies. It is from that membership that the Australian Wool Industry Conference is established. The Act continues:  (4.) The members to represent Australian wool growers shall be appointed on the nomination of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. '(5.) A member referred to in paragraph (d) of sub-section (1.) of this section shall be a person specially qualified for appointment by reason of experience in the marketing of wool or wool products, in the processing of wool or in the manufacture of wool products or by reason of other experience in commerce, finance, economics or science. (6.) The performance of the functions or the exercise of the powers of the Corporation is not affected by reason of there being a vacancy or vacancies in the membership of the Corporation. 
I have quoted from the Act to demonstrate to the House and to honourable members opposite - to the few members who are in the House at the moment - the way in which the membership of the Australian Wool Corporation is constructed. Allegations that members have been chosen because of political affilia tion with the Australian Country Party are grossly unfair. In fact, I would not know what are the political affiliations of two of the members of the Corporation, nor do I care. However, I have a very high regard for the capacity and the ability of members to serve the Australian wool industry and Australia in this capacity. 
I want to give the House some idea of the qualifications that these gentlemen possess.  Mr David  Asimus has been a member of the Australian Wool Commission since 1970. He has been a Director of the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation since 1970. He attended St Paul's College, Sydney University, and won a Nuffield travelling agricultural scholarship to the United Kingdom. He is very highly regarded in the wool industry and in wool trade circles.  Mr Reginald  Vernon Sewell has been  President  of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers' Federation since 1964. "He has been a member of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation Board since 1968. He was  President  of the Wool Secretariat of the Farmers' Union of Western Australia from 1962 to 1964. He was Executive Member of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, a member of the Australian Wool Commission from 1970 and a member of the Export Development Council since 1969. 

 Mr Claude Dominic Renshaw has been a member of the Australian Wool Board since 1963. He has been  President  of the United Farmers and Woolgrowers' Association of New South Wales since 1967 and a member of the Australia Wool Realisation Commission from 1946 to 1952. He was appointed by the then Chifley Government to serve on this very important Commission. Who could charge that this man was appointed by a Country Party Minister because he may have had Country Party affiliations? Here is a man who has proved himself over a long period of years to have capacity and knowledge of the Australian wool industry. He is a man who has given long and distinguished service to public life in more ways than one. I might say that he happens to be the brother of a former Labor Premier of New South Wales who currently is the Labor member for Castlereagh. 
Yes, they claim that he is a Country Party stooge. He may have sympathy for the Australian Country Party but that is because that Party has given service to the Australian wool industry and to the farming community. Quite obviously those people who attack the Australian Wool Corporation merely because of its sympathy with the Country Party, or perhaps because some of its members have a sympathy with the Australian Country Party, are quite obviously frightened of the Australian Country Party. This Party stands on its record - a proud record of serving the rural community of Australia. We take some of the criticism with a degree of pride because it shows that some of the Labor rural members see the Australian Country Party as a real threat and will go to any ends to denigrate this great Party that has served the rural interests of Australia. 
Last week the few Labor members who represent rural electorates met in the Lodge to try to work out some way to wrest the Country Party's grip on the rural constituencies. If the shots that were fired here last week and this week were the first ways of doing it, all I can say is- 
I ask the Treasurer: Is he aware of the alarming fall in productivity in Australia? Is he aware of the figures of the Department of Labor and Immigration which show the following percentage change in each quarter from January 1973 to December 1973: March 1973 quarter 2.2 per cent, June 1973 quarter 0.6 per cent, September 1973 quarter 1.5 per cent and the December 1973 quarter minus 0.7 per cent? Does he agree that this falling rate of productivity is a contributing factor to inflation? Has the Government any plans to increase the incentive in the workforce and productivity in industry? 
I support the Prices Justification Bill which extends the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal. In doing so I recall some of the claims that were made when the Bill was originally introduced to the House last year. It was then said that the Tribunal would not in itself solve the problem of intiation but would, in effect, deal with the end problem of inflation. A Prices Justification Tribunal does not reach to the underlying causes of inflation. Unless some means are found to moderate wage increases and unless efforts are made to increase productivity, the Tribunal will simply review the effects of the Government's failures in these areas. 
This Bill, which provides for the extension of the Tribunal's powers to examine prices arises from the experience of the Tribunal's limitations. The giving to the Tribunal of a general power to inquire into and report upon prices charged by companies, irrespective of the industry involved and irrespective of the annual turnover of the industry, will only extend its charter, exacerbate its frustrations and increase its work load. However, if the Tribunal feels it can function more appropriately under its general charter, it should by all means be given the powers contained in this Bill. No doubt the existence of the Tribunal has had some moderating influence on price increases, if only for a short duration. 
But it is the underlying, the interlocking, the interrelated forces that contribute to price increases that one needs to comprehend. Unless the Tribunal is part of a general overall policy on incomes and prices restraint, its influence on the capacity to reduce price levels and inflation will, I believe, be quite minimal. Once wage and salary increases have been given, as they are almost daily, often associated with industrial action, strikes, stoppages and so forth, the difficulty in holding down prices is almost insuperable, lt is stupid to believe that goods will be produced and sold at a loss. Unless there is a profit in production there will be shortages in relation to demand and thus a further thrust to the inflationary forces. I mentioned the problem of wage restraint and the effect on prices. I also mentioned briefly the need to increase productivity. One of the most serious problems facing Australia is our declining productivity. Australia now has one of the lowest productivity increase rates amongst the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. In 5 years our productivity gain has fallen alarmingly. It has shown a drop from 5.7 in 1968-69 to 1.4 in 1972-73. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table supplied by the Department of Labor and Immigration setting out productivity rates. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is a means test being applied to applicants for Government batchelor flats in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, what is the permissible income for approved applicants for bachelor flats. 
Does this means test prevent a large percentage of unmarried public servants from obtaining bachelor flats. 
Is it a fact that the continuance of this policy could attract an increasing number of low income bachelors to the A.C.T. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs purchasing land for public purposes and for the use and benefit of Aborigines through the Department of Services and Property and using the provision of the Lands Acquisition Act in the normal way. 
Is this method being employed especially when properties are being purchased for Aboriginal companies. 
Is the device of establishing a company, with the Minister or public servants as shareholders; for the purposes of holding land, a method of getting around the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act. 
Does it effectively achieve this result. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many officers of the 2 former Canberrabased Divisions of the Department of the Interior which were concerned with Northern Territory affairs are now serving in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
How many were invited to join the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and did not do so. 
In establishing a new Department of Aboriginal Affairs, did the Secretary of that Department seek to bring into his Department all available public servants with experience in the field of Aboriginal affairs; if not, why not. 
Was this valuable source of experience lost because the officers concerned had loyally implemented the pledges of the previous Government. 
asked the Minister representing the 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In how many companies funded by public funds (a) does the Minister and (b) do public servants in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs hold shares in their official capacities. 
What are the names and objectives of these companies. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  I rise to respond to what I regard as one of the worst bouts of arrogance that T have seen a Minister display in this Parliament. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  obviously is adopting standover tactics in saying: 'You will pass this Bill or 1 will withdraw it and deny the States any more money for roads'. I believe this is a most arrogant attitude to a genuine attempt to try to amend the Bill to suit the requirements not only of State governments but also of local government which do not feel bound to have the Commonwealth Government tell them how to spend money they themselves raise. I think it grossly unfair to try to suppress opposition to bad principles contained in the Bill; to what  we  regard as bad legislation. Australia is supposed to be a civilised democratic country, not some banana republic or totalitarian dictatorship. I know the Minister lost his temper and was probably tired  last evening but that does not excuse him from spelling out an attitude- 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
On what basis are Government houses made available to applicants in the A.C.T. 
Under what conditions can persons purchase these houses. 
What are the terms and conditions of loans from the A.C.T. Housing Commissioner. 
What is the average cost of (a) 2, (to) 3, and (c) 4 bedroom houses. !(5) In what way does the new Government policy differ from the former policy. 
-We have just listened to what was probably one of the most frank expositions of the Labor Party's position in regard to this Bill.  Senator James  McClelland spent a good deal of his speech telling us quite bluntly that he agrees with the abolition of the Senate. Of course, that is the policy of the Australian Labor Party. So what an incredible fraud this whole exercise is. The Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are to be offered 2 senators each, but on the basis that the Labor Party will set out to abolish the Senate. The honourable senator is reputed to have advised  Senator Murphy  in that historic raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and since that event I do not think he has made one constructive suggestion to either the Government or the Parliament. 
In opposing this Bill I recall 2 relevant events that throw some light on the underlying reasons for this move ostensibly to give the Territories, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, representation in the Senate. The first one arises from the Prime Minister's first official visit to the Northern Territory in June last year. He is reported in the ' Australian' of 8 June 1973 as having said that there was no chance of statehood for the Northern Territory. The article is captioned 'Whitlam Tells N.T.: No chance of statehood '. It goes on to read: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  shocked Northern Territory leaders in Darwin yesterday by declaring the Federal Government would not give the Northern Territory statehood. 

 Mr Whitlam said it would be a 'disaster' to see the Northern Territory and the A.C.T. as Australia's seventh and eighth States. 
The statement was made at a civic reception . . . 
The article goes on: 

 Mr Whitlam, who had just spent three days wooing the Indians, shocked local leaders with his stern remarks on domestic matters in Darwin. 
That is one very significant factor that needs to be borne in mind- no statehood for the Northern Territory. 
The second significant matter is contained in the Australian Labor Party's Platform, Constitution and Rules'. It is enshrined in Labor Party policy. It clearly says in section 2 (a) of Part III as a result of the Launceston conference in 1971 'we will abolish the Senate'. It is against this background that we are discussing this legislation tonight. On numerous occasions the Prime Minister has made it abundantly clear that he does not favour the present Federal system of Government in Australia, but he does favour a unitary system of central government and regionalism. Indeed, he has lamented the disability that his Government suffers as a result of having a bicameral system compared to New Zealand with its unitary system. Those are his views. Perhaps those views are shared by other people, but not by the majority of the Australian people. The failure of Federal governments to achieve State powers by numerous referenda bear witness to that contention. True, he is entitled to his views but he is not entitled to force those views on the people either overtly or by stealth. It is against this background that I call into question the motives of the Whitlam Government in providing two of our many Territories with 2 representatives in the Senate. It has already been clearly pointed out, in any event, that they will not be equal senators in a strict sense. They will be different representatives serving in the Senate. They will be elected on different terms and at different times but with powers equal to any other bona fide senator. In a sense they will be second-class senators. They will share the same chamber, the same Standing Orders, but will be representatives for a different duration and for a different purpose. 
In moving to diminish the limits of power of the States through the Senate, the Government is taking another bold step to violate State rights by eroding the Senate's power, influence and prestige. This legislation violates the historical origins of the Senate and weakens the foundation of our 
Federation. In no way do I under-estimate the needs of constitutional advancement in the Northern Territory and in the Australian Capital Territory. As one who believes in the need for new States, I have sought to advance the Northern Territory towards full statehood with the consent of the people of that Territory. I am fully aware of the efforts that my friend and colleague, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has made to achieve constitutional advancement for the Northern Territory and Senate representation for that Territory. I deplore the unwarranted attacks that were made upon him by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  The Minister thinks that he can continue to hold his seat of Dawson with those sorts of personal attacks. If that is the best he can put up in this Parliament in a debate of this nature, I would say that he has a very shaky hold on that seat of Dawson. 
It was largely due to the pressures applied by the honourable member for the Northern Territory and the elected members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council that the former Liberal Party-Country Party Government made a firm offer to the Northern Territory towards constitutional advancement and executive power. It was my responsibility as the Minister for the Interior to lead the negotiations and discussions which resulted in this firm offer being made in October 1972. The proposal was tabled in this Parliament on 25 October 1972. It was a proposal that involved the efforts of many hours of work by senior public servants in many departments. What has happened to these proposals? Why did the Government not proceed with these discussions when it assumed office in 1972? This is a government which has a great propensity for haste, for change. Why have these talks not continued since December 1972? The Government chose to sweep the whole package under the rug and appointed a Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory. In other words, it washed its hands of those proposals and has given that Joint Committee a charter to investigate a form of constitutional advancement for the Northern Territory. 
In its eagerness and impatience to achieve its objectives the Government has pre-empted the Committee's deliberations and recommendations. It has pre-empted the constitutional review which is currently going on and in which both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are involved. I cannot believe that this proposal for 2 representatives in the Senate is designed to give more effective government or representation to either the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. It provides something short of Senate representation for those Territories. Such senators will not be there on the normal basis of Senate representation. 
Let us be frank. This Bill is brought into this Joint Sitting in the hope that when it is carried it will provide the Labor Government with a majority in the Senate thus enabling it to achieve its philosophical and policy objectives. It is purely a political stunt that could well slow down the constitutional advancement of both the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. Other speakers have pointed out that it makes a complete mockery of the Senate as a States House and there are all sorts of doubts as to its constitutional validity. No doubt these will be tested in the High Court at the appropriate time. Let me conclude by saying that I am diametrically opposed to this Bill for the reason that it destroys the concept of the Senate being a States House. As the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said it shatters the constitutional framework of this country. It deals it a mortal blow but it is in line with the general policy objective of this Government to ultimately abolish the Senate and to achieve a form of central government with regional councils. 
-We have just listened to what was probably one of the most frank expositions of the Labor Party's position in regard to this Bill.  Senator James  McClelland spent a good deal of his speech telling us quite bluntly that he agrees with the abolition of the Senate. Of course, that is the policy of the Australian Labor Party. So what an incredible fraud this whole exercise is. The Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are to be offered 2 senators each, but on the basis that the Labor Party will set out to abolish the Senate. The honourable senator is reputed to have advised  Senator Murphy  in that historic raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and since that event I do not think he has made one constructive suggestion to either the Government or the Parliament. 
In opposing this Bill I recall 2 relevant events that throw some light on the underlying reasons for this move ostensibly to give the Territories, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, representation in the Senate. The first one arises from the Prime Minister's first official visit to the Northern Territory in June last year. He is reported in the 'Australian' of 8 June 1973 as having said that there was no chance of statehood for the Northern Territory. The article is captioned 'Whitlam Tells N.T.: No chance of statehood '. It goes on to read: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  shocked Northern Territory leaders in Darwin yesterday by declaring the Federal Government would not give the Northern Territory statehood. 

 Mr Whitlam said it would be a 'disaster' to see the Northern Territory and the A.C.T. as Australia's seventh and eighth States. 
The statement was made at a civic reception . . . 
The article goes on: 

 Mr Whitlam, who had just spent three days wooing the Indians, shocked local leaders with his stern remarks on domestic matters in Darwin. 
That is one very significant factor that needs to be borne in mind- no statehood for the Northern Territory. 
The second significant matter is contained in the Australian Labor Party's Platform, Constitution and Rules'. It is enshrined in Labor Party policy. It clearly says in section 2 (a) of Part III as a result of the Launceston conference in 1971 we will abolish the Senate'. It is against this background that we are discussing this legislation tonight. On numerous occasions the Prime Minister has made it abundantly clear that he does not favour the present Federal system of Government in Australia, but he does favour a unitary system of central government and regionalism. Indeed, he has lamented the disability that his Government suffers as a result of having a bicameral system compared to New Zealand with its unitary system. Those are his views. Perhaps those views are shared by other people, but not by the majority of the Australian people. The failure of Federal governments to achieve State powers by numerous referenda bear witness to that contention. True, he is entitled to his views but he is not entitled to force those views on the people either overtly or by stealth. It is against this background that I call into question the motives of the Whitlam Government in providing two of our many Territories with 2 representatives in the Senate. It has already been clearly pointed out, in any event, that they will not be equal senators in a strict sense. They will be different representatives serving in the Senate. They will be elected on different terms and at different times but with powers equal to any other bona fide senator. In a sense they will be second-class senators. They will share the same chamber, the same Standing Orders, but will be representatives for a different duration and for a different purpose. 
In moving to diminish the limits of power of the States through the Senate, the Government is taking another bold step to violate State rights by eroding the Senate's power, influence and prestige. This legislation violates the historical origins of the Senate and weakens the foundation of our 
Federation. In no way do I under-estimate the needs of constitutional advancement in the Northern Territory and in the Australian Capital Territory. As one who believes in the need for new States, I have sought to advance the Northern Territory towards full statehood with the consent of the people of that Territory. I am fully aware of the efforts that my friend and colleague, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has made to achieve constitutional advancement for the Northern Territory and Senate representation for that Territory. I deplore the unwarranted attacks that were made upon him by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  The Minister thinks that he can continue to hold his seat of Dawson with those sorts of personal attacks. If that is the best he can put up in this Parliament in a debate of this nature, I would say that he has a very shaky hold on that seat of Dawson. 
It was largely due to the pressures applied by the honourable member for the Northern Territory and the elected members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council that the former Liberal Party-Country Party Government made a firm offer to the Northern Territory towards constitutional advancement and executive power. It was my responsibility as the Minister for the Interior to lead the negotiations and discussions which resulted in this firm offer being made in October 1972. The proposal was tabled in this Parliament on 25 October 1972. It was a proposal that involved the efforts of many hours of work by senior public servants in many departments. What has happened to these proposals? Why did the Government not proceed with these discussions when it assumed office in 1972? This is a government which has a great propensity for haste, for change. Why have these talks not continued since December 1972? The Government chose to sweep the whole package under the rug and appointed a Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory. In other words, it washed its hands of those proposals and has given that Joint Committee a charter to investigate a form of constitutional advancement for the Northern Territory. 
In its eagerness and impatience to achieve its objectives the Government has pre-empted the Committee's deliberations and recommendations. It has pre-empted the constitutional review which is currently going on and in which both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are involved. I cannot believe that this proposal for 2 representatives in the Senate is designed to give more effective government or representation to either the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. It provides something short of Senate representation for those Territories. Such senators will not be there on the normal basis of Senate representation. 
Let us be frank. This Bill is brought into this Joint Sitting in the hope that when it is carried it will provide the Labor Government with a majority in the Senate thus enabling it to achieve its philosophical and policy objectives. It is purely a political stunt that could well slow down the constitutional advancement of both the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. Other speakers have pointed out that it makes a complete mockery of the Senate as a States House and there are all sorts of doubts as to its constitutional validity. No doubt these will be tested in the High Court at the appropriate time. Let me conclude by saying that I am diametrically opposed to this Bill for the reason that it destroys the concept of the Senate being a States House. As the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said it shatters the constitutional framework of this country. It deals it a mortal blow but it is in line with the general policy objective of this Government to ultimately abolish the Senate and to achieve a form of central government with regional councils. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he ensure that (a) all who contributed to the Superannuation Fund during the period in which the surplus was amassed will share in the disbursement in proportion to their contributions, (b) any person who resigned, retired or was retrenched and accepted a lump sum settlement, during or after the period of the assessment, will not be disadvantaged and (c) where applicable, former members' dependants or estates will not be disadvantaged. 

 -Mr Speaker, in supporting the amendment moved by my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  I would say that although I have no concern or fear personally about having to conform to some system that would bring about the disclosure of my own personal wealth- and I say that quite sincerely- I am opposed to the principle that underlies the motive behind the motion under discussion. It violates a very basic principle that I regard as being of paramount importance, the basic principle of human rights, of personal freedom, the right of the individual to privacy in personal matters. Just because a person chooses to serve his community by becoming a member of this Parliament, it should not deny him as an individual the right to personal privacy. If that principle is violated in regard to politicians, where does it end? If members of Parliament are to be subjected to this form of public scrutiny, then why not the judiciary? Or are they men of honour and members of Parliament men without honour? Why not public servants? Surely they would need to be publicly scrutinised if this were necessary for members of Parliament. It could be that they had a pecuniary interest or a vested interest in policy advice, in policy administration, and indeed in their dealings with the public. Why not the personal staff of Ministers, of members of Parliament? Why not doctors? Who is to say that a surgeon may not have a pecuniary interest in the life of a patient? Why not trade union officials? As the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  said, why not journalists? Why not have those who sit in the gallery above this Parliament subjected to the same sort of inquiry? Let us go a little further. Why not the man in the street? Why not every person in the community? Why not index every man, woman and child so that we can put a tab on everybody? Why not earmark our population as we earmark sheep so that we can put them into their grades, into their yards, where we can scrutinise and label them? 
I did take an oath. I took an oath of allegiance 
I took an oath of honour. I hope we are all men of honour, because we are supposed to be. I see this move as a first step towards intruding upon the personal lives of people. If the move is one to establish a register, to acknowledge and record the shareholdings of members of Parliament in public companies then I would not be opposed to it in principle. After all, this information is available if you take the time to collect it. It would perhaps be easier for those who wish to know which members of Parliament have an interest in public companies if there were a separate register, but this goes much deeper than that. If pursued it will lead ultimately to the enforcement of the disclosure of private and personal assets and liabilities of a private member, of his wife, of his family. I say sincerely that if the Government is serious and sincere why does it not apply its own medicine to its Ministers, who are the policy decision makers? Why apply this to the private members of this Parliament who play no real part in policy decisions? Perhaps they assist in policy formulation but they are not the decision makers. Surely that is not necessary. As the honourable member for Moreton said, surely there is honour among the men and women who serve in this Parliament. Surely it is not necessary to destroy an important human principle that is essential to a free and democratic society. We are a Common Law country enjoying a system that has evolved over centuries, a system that protects the individual, a system that provides for those who violate the law or abuse their power or their privileges. Why is it necessary to assume that those who sit in this place are not honourable members, are a bunch of rogues, are men who cannot be trusted. What an indictment, that men should need to have their confidential private financial affairs disclosed to public scrutiny. I see it as an infringement upon the privacy of the individual, although that individual may happen to serve his community as a member of this Parliament. 
I find it repugnant that we should be asked to contemplate a system that enables, indeed invites, the public to gaze into the hitherto confidential area of an individual's life so that the public may know how much he owes on his ouse or his car, so that the public may know how much he owes his brother, so that the public may know how much jewellery his wife has. I see it as a threat to individual freedom. As I said before, how long will it be before it ultimately spreads from the Parliament throughout society? How long will it be before we will have to disclose our bedroom secrets to the  Clerk  of the House so that he can make the information available to the public. 
I heard an honourable member interject 'Lay them on the table'.  His  cynicism amazes me. Perhaps it is that sort of cynicism that has developed this approach to the honour that should live among us here. I do not oppose the principle of a parliamentary committee being set up to inquire into this matter, but I do oppose the contention that such disclosure should be an accepted practice. The honourable member for Moreton referred to the report of a committee of the House of Commons which was inquiring into a similar idea. Paragraph 78 of that report, at page 24, states: 
For all these reasons Your Committee are unable to recommend any form of register of Members' private interests. In so doing they have not relied on legalistic or technical objections- though it would be possible to list even more than were given in evidence. Their objections are ones of principle. Witnesses favouring a register agreed that there are bound to be loopholes in every scheme and evasions in the spirit and in the letter, but contended that this is no excuse for not tackling the problem. Your Committee believe that the real choice is either to establish a cumbrous inquisitional machinery which is likely to be evaded by the few Members it is designed to enmesh or to improve and extend the traditional practices of the House. 
I think that quotation sums it up, because if a man were roguish enough there would be no committee or no system that would enmesh him. All this principle would serve to do would be to create a precedent where the freedom of the individual and the privacy of the individual could become a matter of public property. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the current procedures involved between the stages when a block of land for detached housing in Canberra is passed over by the National Capital Development Commission to his Department and the stage when that block of land is in the hands of the person or builder to build on it. 
What is the average time currently involved in these procedures. 
Has he had these processes reviewed lately, and has he any proposals to shorten the time involved. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Did he say, as reported in The Courier of Thursday, 28 March 1974 that 'spec' builders were victimising home purchasers in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, what evidence has he to support this statement. 
Does he oppose the operation of 'spec' builders in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Is it a fact that reputable 'spec' builders have an important role to play in home building in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What are the details of the average costs of serviced blocks of land to applicants seeking blocks for (a) houses, (b) group schemes, (c) flats and (d) town houses since 1 July 1973. 
How do these costs compare with prices for similar land sold at auction for similar periods in 1 97 1 and 1 972 . 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the new method of making serviced blocks of land available to applicants for (a) private housing, (b) group schemes, (c) town houses and (d) flats in the Australian Capital Territory. 
) In what way does the new policy differ from the former method of making serviced blocks available. 
asked the Minister of the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the expected population growth rate in the Australian Capital Territory in 1974. 
How many blocks of land will be available for pur-  chase in 1974. 
How many of these blocks will be available for (a) flats, (b) town houses and (c) detached housing. 
How many new Government houses will be built in 1974. 
Approximately how many people will these new dwellings accommodate. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that self-goverment for the Australian Capital Territory means that ratepayers will have to finance from the municipal account the costs associated with the running of a Legislative Assembly. 
What are the estimated costs of operation under each of the following headings of expenditure over the first 3 years: (a) electoral, (b) Members' salaries and allowances, 
secretariat, (d) rent, (e) transport, (f) stationery and printing and (g) telephone and postage. 
In view of the concern expressed by many Canberra people, will he undertake to hold a referendum to enable the electors of the Territory to indicate whether they are in favour of self-government. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many blocks in the (a) restricted and (b) unrestricted categories were offered for sale by his Department in the Australian Capital Territory during 1973-74. 
How many blocks were made available for (a) town houses, (b) detached housing and (c) flats during 1973-74. 
Does this answer vary from that given on 3 1 August 1973. 
Was this quantity sufficient to meet expected population growth in the 12 months period. 
by leave- I rise to welcome the tabling of this report. I am sure that all honourable members will look forward to studying it in depth. In passing, I take the word of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  that it was he who gave the lead to the Australian Labor Party, to the Government and to the nation. It is certainly not a modest observation but one which could well be true. If it is true all credit must go to the Minister. The report is a monumental document and appears to be beautifully illustrated and is certainly printed and published in a manner that is not usually evident in such reports. I join the Minister in congratulating  Mr Justice  Hope and others on the Committee. 
I am glad that the Government is acting to establish a National Heritage Commission. The National Estate report not only recognises the need for the preservation of historic buildings and things like the Chinese joss house that was mentioned in the Minister's speech, but also the natural environment. I refer to the recommendations in the land use planning section. I quote this pan so that it will be incorporated in Hansard. The Committee recommends: 
To protect and conserve the natural environment requires conservation to be part of the normal planning and development process. A proper land-use inventory and over-all regional land-use plan, keyed in with the inventory, are vital. Therefore we recommend: that the Australian Government give its full support to, and discuss with the States possible help to them in setting up procedures for land-use inventories and regional landuse planning. 
Second, planners, designers, construction authorities and developers generally should accept the principles of 'design with nature' and act accordingly. We recommend: that the Australian Government seek to ensure as far as possible that land-uses are planned and decided in harmony with natural forces and conditions and not against them. 
I think that is probably one of the keys to the recommendations of the total report. I have felt for some time that too often in the environment protection field we have been treating the causes of abuse rather than trying to establish an inventory so that proper land use decisions can be made. I do not think that any political party can accept the blame for what has happened. I know that in New South Wales, for instance, after the last war it was the Australian Labor Party Government that introduced closer settlement to the western areas of New South Wales and carved up blocks of land that were far too small for adequate pastoral activities. We have seen great areas of western New South Wales virtually rendered a desert. 
It appears that several Departments have a responsibility and also a responsibility to liaise with each other in order that many of these recommendations can be achieved. One recommendation that I think is worthy of note is the composition of the 17 member interim committee. It is composed of Federal public servants and other interested persons. If it is to exclude State public servants I think a great mistake is being made. The report itself spends a lot of time in dealing with the constitutional constraints. I quote a section of the report which states: 
Some parts, and indeed important parts, of the National Estate are in the Territories, or, although within the States, are owned by the Commonwealth, but the greater part of the National Estate is within the States and so is subject to the general legislative control of the States. 
So it would be a great pity if the interim committee did not have State Public Service representation. If we are to make any real impact on this problem we need the co-operation of the States. 
The Minister exalts his own socialist philosophy and assumes that socialists have a monopoly of the concern for the National Estate. He quoted that great capitalist who had socialist beliefs, William Morris. William Morris had one great advantage in his writing days; he was writing in a cosy provincial environment which had been man-made for more than 400 years. I make that significant statement because it was the desire of all political Parties in Australia and indeed of the Australian people after the last war to develop Australia at an undreamed-of pace. 
I know. I am not talking about an Australian. The William Morris the Minister talked about was a very wealthy socialist and he lived in an environment where 400 years of manmade effort enabled him to assume the sort of statements and writings that he was able to produce. I relate this to the Australian scene. We have witnessed a great era of growth that has generated the wealth that has improved the general living standards of the Australian people. It is against that background that we can afford now to protect and conserve our environment. 
Perhaps one of the most unfortunate parts of the Minister's speech was that in which he singled out a section of the report to quote. It states: 
The Australian Government has inherited a National Estate which has been downgraded, disregarded and neglected. 
It is very easy to say these sorts of things. But what that report did not say was that the Australian people, during this period of growth, had their living standards lifted to equal the best in the world. It is only because of that situation that we can now turn our attention to preserving and conserving the environment and the national estate. So let us keep our ideas in perspective. We should not hesitate to respect and protect our great national heritage for future generations. This report and its recommendations should give us the lead. We are one of the last developed nations to have a large part of our environment left virtually in its natural state and it is up to all men and women, not just the socialists, to preserve as much of it as is economically and socially possible. That is the key to the whole approach. There has to be a balance. I am sure that the implementation of the recommendations against that background of consideration will be to the long-term benefit of the Australian people. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to my question No. 477 of 1 7 July 1974, does the Government regard the Territory of Christmas Island as having strategic significance now or in the future. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the great number of meetings being held in country areas to discuss the crippling level of industrial disorder and the inadequacies of the Government's rural policies to meet the difficulties currently being experienced? Is he aware that an estimated 5,000 people attended such a meeting at Moree? Will he give an assurance that he will meet representatives of these groups with a view to giving a sympathetic ear to the problems that are concerning a great number of people living outside the metropolitan areas of Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Postmaster-General call for and make public a report on the serious, and apparently growing number of errors and omissions in the new telephone directories, some with costly, and all with inconvenient and irreversible, impact for at least a year. 
) As subscribers do not see  errors  and omissions until the books are published and distributed, will the PostmasterGeneral introduce a better proof reading system that will allow subscribers to proof their own entries and check listings where amendment or new listings occur. 
Will the Postmaster-General consider the introduction of quarterly or half-yearly supplementary listings to more quickly correct error and list new connections. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice; 
What amount of superphosphate was used during the last recorded 12 months period in (a) the wool and sheep industry, (b) the wheat industry, (c) the beef cattle industry and (d) other significant industries. 
What was the cost of superphosphate as a percentage component of the input costs in each of these industries. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
How much phosphate was exported from Christmas Island in (a) 1972 and(b) 1973. 
How much went to (a) Australia, (b) New Zealand and (c) other places. 
What was the total cost per tonne of extraction and transport CIF Melbourne of Christmas Island rockphosphate to Melbourne. 
What is the cost per tonne of processing the rockphosphate into superphosphate. 
What is the difference per tonne between the cost of production of Christmas Island superphosphate and the world price. 
How is any profit expended. 
What is the probable life of the Christmas Island phosphate deposit. 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the Prime Minister 's recorded statement from New York yesterday, as broadcast on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'AM', that Australia has the potential to supply the world with greater quantities of food, and his recognition that enormous capital will be required for that purpose, will the Government review its rural policies? Will the Government review its elimination and partial elimination of a number of taxation and capital investment incentives that were removed from rural industries in the 1973 Budget, following the Coombs report? Does he agree that investment incentives to the Australian rural industry are a means of encouraging the private capital investment necessary to meet the Prime Minister's global aspirations, enabling Australian farmers to increase agricultural production to help minimise an impending world famine? 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the reported statement of the Federal Vice  President  of the Transport Workers' Union,  Mr D.  Carpenter, in the 'Canberra Times' of 7.8.74, referring to a decision of Justice Mary Gaudron of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as a powder-puff decision by a powder-puff judge. 
If so, what is the attitude of the Minister to this reference to a member of the Commission, and what action does he propose to take against the author of these remarks. 
-As one who represents one of the largest Aboriginal populations in New South Wales- and in my home town of Moree I have the largest Aboriginal population outside Redfern - 
-The honourable member is back in prehistoric days. I would like to take him up to Moree and introduce him to a community where people respect each other and work with each other, a community that is becoming well integrated. I think it is to the credit of the Aboriginal people and the Moree people generally that they have seen fit to try to work together as good Australians. I enter this debate to make some comment upon the administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I do not do this in any destructive sense because, as one who had the responsibility as Minister for the Interior for nearly 2 years, I am well aware of the very serious problems that confront not just the Minister but the Department in trying to come to grips with what is one of the biggest social problems confronting this country. So anything I do say I hope is taken with a degree of understanding. 
The appropriation last year of $59,613,000 was not in fact spent. I think an amount of $55,151,800 was expended. It could not be expended for a variety of reasons- no doubt shortages of materials and difficulty in trying to fulfil certain programs. In this year's program we see nearly $70m appropriated to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and no doubt there will be some difficulty in expending that amount. Of course, one of the problems in looking at bald statistics and at the amount of money that is being spent on Aboriginal advancement is that there is a very big percentage of that money going into administration, virtually going into the pockets of white Australians. When you do a break up of the figures they do become revealing, and I have heard so many Aboriginal people say this. Looking through the Appropriation No. 1 accounts one finds that $6.7m has been spent on salaries and wages and administration expenses. The administration of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee has cost a further $ 1 .08 1 m, bringing the expenditure up to close to $8m. The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies has had appropriated $1.6m, which brings us close to $9,400,000. The balance is split up between the Aboriginal Trust Account, $33.5m, and projects many of which have been put into operation without proper reference to the Aboriginal people. 
So many Aboriginal people complain that they are encouraged into activities- commercial undertakings and so on- without proper consultation. Very often they question whether this sort of investment is coming to grips with their greatest needs. In assistance to mission settlements and Government settlements $10m is being spent. Needless to say, a very considerable percentage of the funds that were appropriated last year and no doubt of those that will be appropriate this year in fact will not reach the Aborigines themselves. 
I make some reference to the revelations that have come out again in the Auditor-General's report, which indicates that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has not yet given good reason why some of its expenditure has been in excess of approved programs. In the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account, for instance, nearly $lm was spent in excess of an approved program. With respect to control over grants, the Department has not yet completed its follow-up of grants due to staff shortages. With regard to the now well known turtle and crocodile project, most audit queries remain unresolved pending completion of departmental examination. In the Legal Aid Services replies are still awaited from queries detailed in the March special report. The Operations Management Branch, the control branch of the Department, handicapped by serious staff shortages, was the subject of a comment rather than a criticism. Of course, this has followed on from serious allegations that were made by  Senator Georges  and others about the maladministration within the Department itself. 
One of the victims of the whole exercise is the Minister sitting at the table, who was removed from the portfolio, and I dare say that he suffered some anguish as a result of it. He did approach the task of trying to advance the Aboriginal people with perhaps more zeal than any other Minister has ever approached the task. I think it is probably unfair to cast too much blame on him or on the Department for some of the problems that have occurred, some of the mistakes that have been made. But I do believe that the Department now has a responsibility to answer all the queries that have been levelled at it by the Auditor-General and to clean up some of these untidy areas that have left it open to continuing criticism. 
I agree with the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  who made the observation that money in itself will not solve the Aboriginal problem. That is a very true statement. Money can lift hopes falsely and it can cause very great frustrations, because if the Aboriginal people are led to believe that expending $ 100m or $ 1 50m is going to be the cure-all, and if they do not get advancement or do not get what they expected to receive, then they sink back into a deeper frustration, and that ultimately leads to even greater and deeper human suffering. We have seen evidence of this frustration from  Mr Charlie  Perkins down. He has come out with a proposition that I think should be taken seriously, that is, to administer Aboriginal affairs through a statutory authority. This has not been advocated by many people. There is one great advantage in doing this, in my view, and that is that it would probably take some of the political sting out of the area. It is a suggestion that I do not think the Government should cast aside. 
I have on the notice paper a notice of motion calling for a royal commission to investigate the administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It reads: 
That this House believes the Government should set up a Royal Commission to examine the administration of Aboriginal Affairs believing that the Government have misled the Aboriginal community by denying them the right to achieve their aspirations. 
After a lot of thought I have decided to remove that from the notice paper. I will not proceed with it because I do not think it will serve any great purpose. I think it will probably stir up a lot of unnecessary party political debate. But I do believe that the Government should look at the prospect of establishing a statutory authority and putting more of the responsibility for the expenditure on, and the administration of, their own affairs upon the Aboriginal people themselves. It is better for them to make the mistakes than for us to make them because, out of good intention, we can make the mistakes, take the blame, become embittered and cause even greater divisions. 
The other problem I want to touch on is this dreadful problem of alcoholism that abounds in the Northern Territory and elsewhere. It is a problem that must be faced up to. It is a symptom of the frustrations and the deprivation of the people and I believe that much research needs to be done to try to overcome this very big problem. While ever they are addicted to alcohol their own human progress will be slow, indeed will be tragic, and I do not think we are doing enough to try to face up to this great tragedy of alcoholism amongst the Aboriginal people at the present time. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
How many candidates forfeited their deposits in (a) the last 2 elections for the House of Representatives and (b) the Senate election in May 1974. 
What were their political affiliations. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the annual cost to the Australian Government - of leasing office space in the Sydney metropolitan area. 
How much space is leased, and for what purpose. 
What are the addresses of the properties leased, and who are the proprietors of each property. 
What is the current rental of each of the premises. 
5 ) What is the term of each lease. 
How much have rentals increased for Government accommodation in the City of Sydney since 30 June 1 972. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the annual cost to the Australian Government of leasing office space in the cities of (a) Brisbane, (b) Melbourne, (c) Adelaide, (d) Perth and (e) Hobart. 
How much space is leased in each city, and for what purpose. 
What are the addresses of the properties leased, and who are the proprietors of each property 
What is the current rental of each property. 
5 ) What is the term of each lease. 
What has been the total increase in rentals in each city since 30 June 1972. 
-I wish to address myself to the estimates for the Department of Services and Property, particularly in relation to the cost of leased accommodation for Commonwealth departments, statutory bodies and so on in the various capital cities. On 16 October the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  provided an answer to question No. 1 1 87 which I placed on the notice paper seeking information about the current cost of leased office space in the city of Sydney. A similar question No. 1191 was placed on the notice paper seeking similar information in respect of Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart. The Minister provided an answer- if an inadequate answer- to that question as well. However, it is now clear that we have experienced a dramatic rise in rentals in our capital cities. 
Let me look at Sydney first. The annual cost of leasing space in Sydney is as follows: As at 27 September 1974 a total of 257,600 square metres of space was leased, costing $14,314,000. This compared with the leasing of 143,400 square metres at a cost of $7,42 1 ,000 as at 30 June 1 974. Thus while office space leased has increased by nearly 80 per cent in a 2-year period, office rentals have nearly doubled in the city of Sydney. This is an incredible increase in a 2-year period. I understand that office space is not in short supply in Sydney. I am led to believe- perhaps the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  who is sitting at the table can tell me whether my belief is correct- that we are in a more competitive situation as far as obtaining leased office space is concerned in the city of Sydney. But the staggering aspect of this revelation is that the cost to the taxpayers in a 2-year period has completely doubled. 
In the other capital cities office space leased has increased from 331,200 to 492,100 square metres, the cost of which has increased from $12,371,000 to $21,703,000. This, of course, is a fantastic increase in rental costs. I regret that the Minister was so unco-operative in scheduling the information I sought in parts (3), (4) and (5) of question No. 1 187 which I placed on the notice paper. I will read them to the House. They read: 
What are the addresses of the properties leased, and who are the proprietors of each property. 
What is the current rental of each of the premises. 
5 ) What is the term of each lease. 
The Minister's reply to those questions reads: 
The information requested by the honourable member is tabled regularly in an abridged form in both Houses of this Parliament in accordance with section 7(3) of the Lands Acquisition Act. 
I do not propose to provide further details for a number of reasons, particularly that to do so would be an unwarranted intrusion into the private affairs of individual lessors; nor would it be in the interests of the Australian Government in negotiating further leases. 

 His answer is certainly brief and not very helpful. In fact I almost detect an angry tone in his reply. The attitude that seems to pervade it is: 'To hell with him. He is a member of Parliament and he can make his own inquiries in another way'. A similar question was placed on the notice paper by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  when I was the Minister for the Interior.  His  question related to accommodation in the city of Sydney and my Department listed the lessors in accordance with the information that he required. I believe that the Minister for Services and Property could have asked his Department- no doubt the Department would have been prepared to do this- to catalogue the information that we require, as my Department did when I was the Minister. Yet the Minister for Services and Property, of course, is not averse to giving detailed information, particularly information in great chapter, verse and detail, about the use of charter flights that were approved by me when I was the Minister. 
-For the very reason that the Committee on Public Works, of which the Minister was then a memeber objected to the building of office space at Woolloomooloo in Sydney and also in the city of Melbourne. I remember saying to the honourable member across the table at the time that the taxpayers of Australia would pay dearly for this because those who have office space to let will put the Australian Government over a barrel, and that is precisely what these lessors have done. Admittedly there has been a proliferation of task forces and commissions and no doubt additional space has been necessary to try to house them. 
-That is right. I said in the early part of my comments on these estimates that every capital city has shown a substantial risenearly double what is was 2 years ago. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)Order!  I would like to interrupt the friendly discussion across the table and ask the honourable member to direct his remarks through the Chair. 
The Minister for Services and Property could have gone much further than he did. in reply to the questions which I have read to the Committee. I intend to press the questions again in another way, particularly in view of the Auditor-General's report on the Department of Services and Property in which concern is expressed about the space for which the Commonwealth is paying rent but for which there is no occupier. This situation has existed for some time. It even goes back to the time when I was Minister for the Interior. Apparently we are still paying rent for space which is not being used. The Auditor-General has quite rightly drawn attention to this in the hope that the Minister and the Department will do something about it. 
The critical issue of course is that the Australian Government now is paying nearly double the rent that was being paid in 1972. 1 want to know why this is so. Is it due to the proliferation of various statutory commissions, bodies and task forces or is it because the Government has decided to find plush accommodation rather than the type of accommodation that was available in 1972? Is it because rentals have increased across the board? I would like to know the reasons. I think that the Committee and the public have a right to know the reasons. The AuditorGeneral's report reveals that in one case the Commonwealth is paying $110,000 a year in dead rent for rented office accommodation because no Commonwealth department is in fact occupying the space. Surely good reasons will have to be given either to the Committee or to the Public Accounts Committee as to why there should be such extravagance in this area. I hope that the Minister for Housing and Construction, on behalf of the Minister for Services and Property, in this debate, can be more explicit in answering the questions that cause me some concern than the Minister himself who apparently has chosen to treat the whole issue in a cavalier fashion. If we do not get the right sort of answers I think that the Public Accounts Committee could well look at some of the extraordinary costs and will want to find out the reasons for the fantastic increases in the rental of accommodation used by Commonwealth departments, bodies and so on. Surely any payment which doubles itself in a 2-year period is a matter of some considerable concern. 
-In addressing myself to the estimates for the Department of the Environment and Conservation I wish to draw attention to the way in which the administration and programming of expenditure on the environment is fragmented between the Department of the Environment and Conservation and the Department of Urban and Regional Development. This is somewhat emphasised in the Budget Speech, Budget paper No. 1.I do not have the departmental estimates as such but I would assume the estimates for the 2 departments aggregate the total amount of expenditure on the environment. It will be noted that on page 49 of the paper, under section 6, 'Urban and Regional Development NEC and the Environment', the section headed 'Protection of the Environment' deals with Department of Urban and Regional Development initiatives and we find that $250,000 is listed within that category for a national air monitoring program and $100,000 is listed for an education program to develop a public environmental awareness. I have just spoken to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  and I have found that that does in fact reside within his own area. On page 52 under the heading of ' Wildlife and National Parks', which comes under section 7, 'Culture and Recreation', an amount totalling $9.9m, including $9m to the States, has been set aside for the acquisition of land for nature conservation; a further $8m has been set aside to help the States preserve the national estate in accordance with the recommendation, I suppose, of the report of  Mr Justice  Hope. I make the point that the national estate could comfortably reside within the Department of the Environment and Conservation. 
It is not easy for the ordinary layman- indeed it is not easy for those of us in this House unless we spend a lot of time going through the Budget papers- to readily add together the total amount being spent in the preservation of the environment and in nature conservation. I think the Minister should take note of that, because he would do himself a great deal of justice if this was given some prominence and he would also do some justice to his Department. A further example is in the allocation in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1974-75 of $475,000 to such bodies as the River Murray Commission for water resources research, the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, the United Nations convention and forum for the protection of the world cultural and natural heritage, the Australian Environmental Council and so on. Grants in aid to conservation organisations total $448,000 are also provided for in the appropriation for the Department of the Environment and Conservation, yet the Department of Urban and Regional Development appropriates $299,000 to other conservation groups and to the various trusts in each one of the States. 
I question why we see this splitting of a responsibility. Is it because our big brother Tom, or Uncle Tom, wants to be in the act? Surely these grants and appropriations should be the responsibility of the Department of the Environment and Conservation and its Minister. This splitting serves to weaken the role of a very important department and the influence of its Minister at a time when people generally are conscious of the environment, conscious of the  need to try to protect it. I am in no way critical of the Minister, because I know that he approached his task with a great deal of sincerity, indeed honesty, but he is going to have the task in front of him, as indeed any Minister would in this relatively new area of trying to build up its importance, its prestige and its capacity to make the sort of impact that it must. The way the appropriations are laid out does not meet the requirements and the stated responsibilities of the Department, which was created on 19 December 1972. Its stated charter was described as follows: 
To provide focus in the machinery of government for conservation of the present state of the Australian environment and the social, technological and ecological factors relating to the proposed actions or evolutionary changes affecting it and for recommending environmentally beneficial courses of action. 
Although the definition is in some ways vague, although it does not give the Department a full policy making function and limits it to focusing on the machinery that should be adopted, in my view the Department of the Environment and Conservation should have a full responsibility in the areas to which I have referred. Surely the administrative structure of the Department should be related to its announced or intended functions. I suggest- I do so in a personal way- that those functions should include the environment and the national estate, urban and rural land use strategies and policies, anti-pollution, wildlife and nature conservation, responsibility for the education of the community in conservation, water and soil resources and conservation policies, and the administration of those areas. I am convinced- again I am speaking for myself- that there should be a complete restructuring of the Public Service and its administrative functions. 
There would be some sense in grouping more departments together under the one command but departmentalising them within that one system. In the resource area, mining, agriculture, manufacturing, urban and regional development, housing and works, and environment and conservation could well come together within the one unit. The Department of the Environment and Conservation should have an important liaison role with all the resource use areas, possibly with one senior liaison officer in each component resource area which would make up the single unit. Such a pervading influence should extend into government and non-government groups, but in a way which will achieve cooperation and not confrontation. I know that it has been the desire of the Minister to tread carefully and to try to get other departments, the Government as a whole and the community going with him in a common objective, but it should be the responsibility of the department whose permanent concern and responsibility lies within the area of the quality of life- a phrase which has been used so often. 
There is just one other point I would like to make in the 3 minutes left to me. It concerns the recycling of waste paper. I base my comments on personal observations I have made in the Australian Capital Territory on days, particularly during the garbage dispute, when I have had occasion to take my garbage to one of the dumps. It is a sickening sight to me and, I am sure, to many other people to see the amount of paper that is blowing to waste and being destroyed in the national capital. Surely in the national capital we should be giving a lead to the States and to other communities on how to recycle waste paper. The other day I received a letter from the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  seeking my views on how milk should be handled in the Australian Capital Territory and asking me whether it should be put into bottles or cartons. I firmly believe that we must stick to the use of bottles rather than litter the place with a lot of cartons which are very hard to dispose of. 
Right in this Parliament tons of waste paper are burnt every day. A machine is available in Great Britain at the present time- I have brought this matter to the attention of the Departmentwhich can effectively turn the waste paper from this establishment into bricks that can be recycled profitably to those who are engaged in this operation. I commend that idea. Let us set an example in the Parliament, let us set an example within the various Public Service departments and let us set an example in Canberra that is second to none in Australia. We have a golden opportunity to ensure that recycling in fact becomes a possibility and to show that it is good for the community. I make that plea to the Minister. I have had discussions with his departmental officers about such a proposal and I know that they are interested in it. I hope that it will be implemented before long. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs who demonstrated outside Parliament House on the occasion of the opening of Parliament by The Queen commit offences against the Public Service Act. 
If so, are they to be charged; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is it stated in the pamphlet produced by the Metric Conversion Board entitled 'Motoring goes Metric on I July 1974' that the present 60 (mph) speed limit signs will be replaced by 100 (km/h). 
Have the 60 (mph) speed limit signs been replaced by  80 (km/h) signs on the Federal Highway between Antill 
Street and the A.C.T./N.S.W. border. 
3 ) What other variations of speed limits were made in the A.C.T on the introduction of metric speed signs. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name and age and what are the qualifications of the newly appointed Chief Electoral Officer for the State of Tasmania. 
Was this appointment made from within the ranks of the Australian Electoral Office; if not, why not. 
Has the appointee ever been a member of the Australian Labor Party. 
Did the appointee at any time seek pre-selection as an Australian Labor Party candidate for any electoral Division within the Commonwealth of Australia. 
If the answer to part (3) or (4) is in the affirmative, does this equip the officer to discharge his duties in a bipartisan manner. 
-I move: 
That this House requests the Government to urgently present a program to stimulate rural production and to restore confidence in the rural sector of the economy in Australia as a proper basis for any positive plan the Government may sponsor or support at the forthcoming World Food Conference organised by the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organisation in Rome during November. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What are the qualifications of each of the Commissioners appointed in each of the States to undertake a redistribution of electoral boundaries. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many (a) builders' licences and (b) builders' special licences are current in the Australian Capital Territory. 
How many were there in each of the years 1970-71, 1971-72, 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
asked the Minister for Health, who directed the question to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture upon notice: 
Has he appointed a Director to head the Animal Health Bureau. 
If so, what is his name, and what are his qualifications. 
Was the position advertised; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the names of the street intersections in Canberra where most motor accidents have occurred during the last 12 months. 
When was each intersection completed, and how many accidents have occurred since at each of these intersections. 
3 ) What actions are being taken to reduce the accident incidence at these intersections. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to the answers to my questions Nos 477 (Hansard, 23 July 1974, page 546) and 927 (Hansard, 19 September 1974, page 1635) and having regard to (a) the importance of Christmas Island as a source of phosphate for Australia, (b) its strategic significance and (c) the Government's policy on de-colonisation, is it a fact that the Government still does not have any proposals under consideration to change the status of Christmas Island. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many accidents involving motor vehicles occurred at the Barney Crescent/ Anzac Parade intersections prior to the installation of 'Stop' signs. 
How many have occurred since the installation of these signs. 
3 ) What are the details of each accident. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that his administration of Norfolk Island is the cause for alarm. 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement of the editor of the only newspaper of Norfolk Island that the Island population wants to begin moves to secede from Australia. 
If so, what is the attitude of the Government to these moves. 
What action is proposed by the Government in respect of these local moves. 
-The other day I read a poster which stated: 'He's had a fair go and he's stuffed it'. It is strange language but a compelling message. 
It is strange language, as the honourable member for Hunter has said, but I think that there is a compelling message in it. On a closer examination it was apparent that the poster referred to the record of the Government and of the Prime Minister who leads it. It is a sad commentary because I understand that it was written prior to the second 1974 Budget and prior to the deepening unemployment crisis. The unemployment rate is now standing at the seasonally adjusted figure of 190,000 people and is predicted to reach - 
The unemployment rate has been predicted to reach 250,000 or 300,000 people by April or May of next year. The poster does represent a sad commentary on what has been an incredibly bad government. In the heady days of late 1972 the Australian people were promised a new deal, a new horizon. They were promised a humane government. They were promised a stable economy. We were told that there would be a cessation of industrial disorder. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 'We are a government of the unions. We know the unions. We know how to deal with them'. We were promised an end to the unemployment situation, which had resulted in just over 100,000 people being out of work at the peak of the problem. The Prime Minister promised an end to inflation; yet we have seen inflation reach record heights. We were told that the Labor Government would be a low interest rate government; yet today interest rates are at the highest level on record. 
The Prime Minister looked good in those days. The Australian Labor Party looked good to the uninitiated. We were told that it had an ongoing program. The Australian Labor Party appeared to have a social conscience and a concern for the worker, the farmer, the townsman and the businessman. The people were led to believe that 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government had destroyed the fabric of our society. The truth of the matter is that 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government brought unprecedented economic growth, industrial development and one of the highest standards of living in the world. The mesmerised voters who swung to the Australian Labor Party in 1972 did not read the small print of the Australian Labor Party's platform; that is, the pledge to socialism, a pledge which is signed by every Labor Party candidate. As a result those who swung to it have been disillusioned and dismayed by the spiralling events since 1 972. 
From the day the Australian Labor Party was elected to office we saw a new style of government in this country. In the first 10 days there was a 2-man Ministry. A plethora of advisers, of armchair strategists, was called in to fulfil the charter of advising the Government on ways and means of restructuring the economy and of reallocating resources. There was to be a new rationalisation to achieve the socialist objectives. Decision after decision was taken rushing the Australian people and the economy into confusion. Soon the private sector got the message as to what the Government was about and all confidence took flight. One recalls the memorable phrase in this year's second Budget speech of the now discredited Treasurer. Is he Treasurer tonight? Will he resign tomorrow or the next day? Is he going to be sacked? The Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  in the pivot to his Budget Speech, said: 
The relatively subdued conditions and prospects in the private sector provide the first opportunity we have had to transfer resources to the public sector. 
Last night we were treated to the third Budget in 3 months. On the face of it, it is a complete somersault. The Prime Minister is now trying to convince the business sector, the multinationals and the overseas investors that they can bring their money into this country if they are game enough to do so and that the Labor Party loves them after all. He is trying to convince those in the private sector who are trying to run their farms and businesses that the Government loves them after all because it is prepared to give them a tax cut. But is the Government fair dinkum? Is it afraid that it might be forced to the people against the background of disastrous gallup polls and shattering electoral results in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory? 
I submit that if the Government were fair dinkum it would have done 2 simple things to restore confidence in the private sector in addition to the actions it has taken. The first would be to defer the collection of the quarterly company tax, thus leaving $400m in the private sector. Even the Premier of South Australia has pleaded to the Government to adopt that course. Every group representing the private sector has made that plea to the Government. The other course of action that it could have taken but failed to take was to increase the first advance on this year's wheat crop to $1.80 per bushel by agreeing to advance to the Australian Wheat 
Board an additional $240m from the Rural Credit Section of the Reserve Bank. 
-The Australian Wheat Growers Federation put that proposal to the Government. I am surprised that the honourable member for Robertson has not been informed about it because his good judgment might have had some influence upon the result. The Prime Minister postured at the United Nations in New York just recently, saying that Australia had the capacity to produce food for the starving peoples of the world and giving the impression that the Government would provide an incentive to the wheat growers to help them to produce the grain that is necessary to feed the starving millions. The Government is helping to starve thousands and thousands of people throughout the world by its policies. The Government has failed to provide any incentive although it has had a chance to do so. The wheat decision was an act of political stupidity, apart from anything else. Wheat is today selling on the overseas market at over $4 a bushel; yet the Australian Government has refused to increase the first advance on this year's crop beyond $ 1 .20. It is not a handout that the Australian wheat growers want; it is an advance from the Reserve Bank of Australia in relation to which the wheat growers themselves will have to repay both the capital and the interest. I believe that the whole exercise has been a fraud, a stunt. This socialist government is not interested in the private sector. 
-The Government of which the honourable member for Hunter is a supporter, with its doctrinaire philosophy, will lead to its own destruction and to the destruction of our way of life. 
-Take your point of order and take your bat home. 
asked the Minister for Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 )  Has the Government any evidence to prove that there will be no additional pollution to the Murray River as the Albury/Wodonga growth centre develops to reach its  300,000  population target. 
Will he give an undertaking that his Department will ensure that water quality in the Murray River will be regularly monitored below Albury/ Wodonga. 
What authority will be charged with this responsibility, and will its findings be published regularly. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
When will he announce the establishment of a Housing Authority for the A.C.T. 
I am surprised that members of the Government are not defending their position in relation to this Bill. I am surprised also that the Government should proceed with a Bill of this nature, particularly in view of the fact that, under legislation which the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  who is at the table, was responsible for, we witnessed the conduct of an election in the Northern Territory to return 19 members to the new Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. That Legislative Assembly has not yet had powers conferred upon it. Indeed, we are awaiting the report of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory before the Government considers the range of powers that this new Assembly should have. 
For the record, I wish to read the first part of the terms of reference that were contained in the motion carried by the House of Representatives appointing the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. That motion reads: 
1 ) That a Joint Committee be appointed- 
to examine and report on measures that might be taken in the long and short term to provide the Northern Territory with responsible self-government in relation to local affairs- including appropriate divisions of legislative and executive responsibility at the National and Territorial or other level- having regard to: 
the Government's wish to establish a fully elected Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory by 3 1 December 1 974; 
the relationship that will need to exist between a local executive and the National Government; 
the size, composition and diversity of interest of the population of the Territory including the special difficulty of providing for effective participation by the Aboriginal people in a political system which is alien to their traditional culture; 
the extent to which the people of the Northern Territory wish to accept greater responsibility for its government; 
any other special considerations which the Committee considers relevant to its conclusions; 
vi) financial arrangements, and 
b) to inquire into and report on such matters relating to the Northern Territory as are referred to it- 
by the Minister for the Northern Territory, or 
by resolution of either House of the Parliament. 
While I was Minister for the Interior, the last thing that I would have done with regard to the Northern Territory would have been to introduce Bills for Acts relating to such matters as urban land and other aspects as I would have regarded these matters as falling within the Statelike responsibilities of the then Northern Territory Legislative Council. In fact, I am sure that our Government would not have tried to steamroll over the responsibilities of the elected people of the Northern Territory in the manner in which this Government has attempted to do so in the last 18 months. 
If this is to be the pattern and the way in which the Northern Territory is to be treated I forecast that members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly could well do more than walk out of that Assembly as former members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council did in other years. Just how long are the people of the Northern Territory going to stand for this sort of treatment by this Government? In fact, I think that the vote that we witnessed in the Northern Territory where in the 19 electorates, all contested by the Australian Labor Party, the Labor Party did not win a seat- 17 seats were won by the Country-Liberal Party candidates and 2 were won by Independents- 
As the honourable member for Boothby has said, it was a complete annihilation. But the people did not act in this manner without some good reason and some good cause. I do not really think that it was a vote of no confidence in the personality of the present Minister. In fact, I have always had the feeling that the Minister was fairly highly regarded by most people in the Northern Territory. But the Minister is trying to administer the Northern Territory within a hopeless framework in which other government departments are trying to rape his Department of its powers. This is not a new process. I can assure the House that when I was Minister for the Interior I had the experience as well of other departments trying to pull the rug from under my feet. This has gone on to the point where I think the Minister must stand up, fight and be counted for the sake of the people of the Northern Territory. 
On 25 October 1 972,I made a statement in the . House of Representatives outlining proposals for the transfer of a range of functions to the Territory legislature and executive. I propose to read a section of those arrangements and proposals, or powers, that were considered at great length for two or three years by way of joint discussions between various Ministers and representatives of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. That part reads: 
Subject to general acceptance in the Northern Territory, the Government is prepared to transfer full legislative authority to the Legislative Council and concomitant executive power to a Territory Executive for the following State-type activities: 
Local Government responsibilities and functions, and the following forms of community services 
Libraries 
Fire Brigades 
Building standards 
Bus services 
Cemeteries 
Inspection of scaffolding and machinery 
Control of the following forms of social legislation 
Workers compensation 
Gambling 
Liquor licensing 
Censorship 
Consumer protection 
Rights of women 
Rights of minors 
Daylight saving 
Control of firearms 
Crown Law functions to lower court level including criminal law administration but excluding the Supreme Court and control of companies. 
Electricity, water and sewerage operations 
Housing (excluding Commonwealth staff housing ) 
Northern Territory Public Service- 
Treasury 
Personnel administration 
Police 
Printing Office 
Prison administration 
State-type taxation, such as- 
Stamp duties 
Succession duties- 
And now we come to the important one, urban land. Under the heading 'Urban land' the functions proposed are: 
Acquisition, allocation and subdivision of land within the control of the Territory Executive and urban arterial roads 
Urban traffic including- 
Motor vehicle registration- 
And so I could go on. We made that offer on 25 October 1972, not because we were nearing an election but because the time-table that it took to conduct the discussions fell within that period. We were awaiting a reply from the Northern Territory Legislative Council to that proposal. There was an election, honourable members might remember, on 2 December and the then Government was defeated. As a consequence a move was made to set up a joint committee to examine the form of executive responsibility to be transferred to an enlarged Legislative Assembly. I do not want to debate the rights or the wrongs of this principle or the way in which we may try to stabilise land prices. I do not think that matters. It does not matter to me. 
The Government is rushing headlong in characteristic style to administer the land by legislation passed through this Parliamentlegislation that should fall directly within the responsibility of the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory. I know that land availability and land prices are a very real problem in and around the city of Darwin. There has been a shortage of serviced land for some time. I well remember the attempt to try to overcome this by the Brinken development and other programs the former Government was trying to get off the ground, getting private enterprise involved to speed up the provision of serviced land. I am also well aware of the enormous areas of land in Darwin occupied by the Department of Defence- by the Royal Australian Air Force, by the Army and by the Navy. 
A number of inter-departmental committees met with a view to trying to come to some arrangement to release a lot of this land that was tied up by the Service departments, but I assume that this investigation has not been proceeded with. I think it is a great pity that it has not because some of the choice residential land in Darwin is now occupied by some of the Service departments. As the honourable member for 
Boothby said, this Bill is clearly designed to sidestep the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act, under which land must be acquired on just terms. Where is the protection for the existing land owners? Are they not entitled to a fair go? Are they not entitled to just terms? If they own a block of land of 20 acres or 2 acres or an acre, does that mean that they have to be subject to penalty? Does it mean that they are not entitled to just terms? Does it mean that that sort of land should not be purchased under the terms of the existing Lands Acquisition Act for a Commonwealth purpose? 
The appeal provisions under this Bill are nowhere near as fair to anybody who might wish to appeal as are those under the Lands Acquisition Act. The Government has run away with its land grab schemes, so much so that not many areas throughout the Commonwealth today want to be designated as growth areas- not a great number. A great number of areas were looking at their own centres a couple of years ago as being likely growth centres, but not a great many are doing so today. Rumour has it- I do not know whether it is true- that the Albury-Wodonga plan is on the verge of a breakdown. I am told that no fewer than 20 separate authorities and bodies have their fingers in the pie of development. Confidence in the area is apparently falling rapidly and Albury-Wodonga will not get off the ground unless there is confidence within that area by private enterprise because it will be built with private capital. Surely the Government, with its social welfare scheme, will not be able to generate the sort of capital that is necessary to dig trenches, to build drains, and to service blocks of land. I am told- I do not know whether it is true- that Victoria is on the verge of withdrawing from the Albury-Wodonga proposition. 
I feel sorry for the Minister for the Northern Territory because I think he has been forced into this ugly position that he is in in which he has to take action to try to push through legislation at a time when the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory has not tabled its recommendations and when the Government has not determined what powers will be vested in the 19-member Legislative Assembly which the Minister was responsible for establishing. I support the amendment. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the Prime Minister's stated concern to boost the private sector of the economy, does this put paid to the Treasurer's now well quoted strategy in his Budget Speech last September, part of which I now quote: 
The relatively subdued conditions-in prospect in the private sector provide the first real opportunity to transfer resources to the public sector. 
If the Government is concerned about the private sector and the credit squeeze, why did not the Government defer the collection of quarterly company taxation thus leaving $400m in circulation? Why did not the Government agree to advance sufficient funds from the Reserve Bank to the Australian Wheat Board to enable a first advance of $1.80 a bushel for this season's crop now selling on the overseas market at $4 a bushel, thus injecting another $2 50m into the banking system? How serious was the Prime Minister when he expressed concern in New York about the world food crisis and Australia's capacity to produce more grain? Does the Prime Minister agree that such an increase- 
-The 2 Bills before us which are to be taken in a cognate debate are the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill 1974 and the Aboriginal Loans Commission Bill 1974. The first Bill provides financial assistance to the States for the purpose of assisting Aboriginal people. This is the eighth such Bill. The former Liberal-Country Party Government commenced the principle of allocating funds to the States to assist Aboriginal people. Therefore this is not a new initiative of the Whitlam Government but an extension of a policy developed by former Liberal-Country Party governments. 
One should note that the Government proposes to alter the title of the legislation from the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Act to the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Act. I believe that the motive underlying this change is commendable and desirable. I think that it does in fact take away a degree of the patronising attitude connoted in the title of the legislation. The Bill provides for a total of $40. 79m to be paid to the States which represents a 26 per cent increase in funds over last year's allocation of $32.25m. This increase in expenditure is not inconsistent with the increases that have taken place since 1969-70. The schedule attached to the legislation shows that the increases since 1969-70 are as follows: In 1969-70 $5,410,000, was allocated under the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill as it was known then; in 1970-71 $7m was allocated; in 1971-72 $9.2m; there was a very substantial jump in 1972-73 to $22m which represents the largest percentage gain; and in 1973-74 there was a further substantial leap to $32,250,000. Again this year there is to be a 26 per cent increase to $40,790,000. 
A breakup of the funds roughly reflects the needs of the States and the number of Aboriginals in those States. The Opposition supports the granting of funds for this purpose but deplores the blackmailing tactics of the Government, the blackmailing standover tactics that it has adopted against the Queensland Government and the Queensland people. The Queensland Government has the administrative machinery to expend efficiently its share of the grant for the purpose of assisting Aboriginal people in regard to housing, education and other forms of assistance in that State. I believe that the Queensland Government probably has a far superior administration in its State than the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has in Canberra which he himself has called a disaster area. I want to quote from the second reading speech of the Minister because I think what he said is quite relevant to what I will say later. The Minister said: 
Honourable members will also notice that an increase of $400,000 is provided for Queensland in this Bill. The House will be aware of the intransigence on the part of the Queensland Government in respect of the Australian Government's attempts to achieve a collaborative approach to Aboriginal affairs throughout Australia. A large measure or co-operation has been achieved with all other States. Not only have the Queensland Premier and the Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs refused to co-operate, they have refused even to participate in discussions on matters of mutual concern to the Queensland and Australian Governments in the Aboriginal affairs field. In the light of this attitude, the Australian Government has decided to make funds available under this legislation to the Queensland Government only for programs for which an unavoidable commitment has been entered into. 
They are very strong words to express in a second reading speech, and I can only describe them as being standover tactics. No wonder the Aborigines are protesting against the Minister and his Department. No wonder we see a first assistant secretary of the Department,  Mr Charles  Perkins, protesting outside Parliament House with those who were gathered there. I do not give him any marks for doing it, but that was his decision. A Minister who resorts to these sorts of blackmailing tactics does not earn the respect of his staff or, indeed, of the Aboriginal people. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  informs us that since the Queensland Government will not play his game, will not do what he wants it to do, will not do what it is told, the Queensland Government will be cut back by about $3. 19m and will be left with only $400,000 more than it received last year, in spite of a 20 per cent inflationary cost factor in all levels of administration. The $3. 19m that Queensland will lose will be split amongst the other States, New South Wales getting $ 1.87m, Victoria $730,000 and South Australia $583,000. A great split up, because the Queensland Government is a naughty Government so its money is taken away, it is split amongst the other States, and the Minister says that he will provide additional funds direct to Aboriginal communities in Queensland. I will read the section of the Minister's second reading speech where he referred to this. He said: 
The Australian Government will ensure that additional programs in Queensland will be carried out through local Aboriginal community organisations, the Australian Department of Aboriginal Affairs and other instrumentalities. We will ensure that the Aboriginals and Islanders of Queensland are not disadvantaged by this decision and we believe that, because the Australian Government's approach is to involve Aboriginals to the maximum extent possible in matters affecting them, this decision will ensure greater benefit in the long term to the Aboriginals and Islanders of Queensland. 
That is a very, very wide sweeping statement and one with which I am sure most people could argue. I suppose the Minister will say that funds will go into such organisations as housing associations; yet in the last financial year $9m was unspent out of funds that were allocated for this purpose. The Minister admits that the housing associations, which are community associations, had not developed as fast as they could have and that they were slow to get off the ground and get under way, and this does not surprise me one iota. 
Early last year I brought a delegation from Moree to meet with the Minister for the Capital 
Territory  (Mr Bryant),  a deputation consisting of the Mayor of Moree and a number of Aboriginal people. The deputation was seeking to obtain funds to try to rehouse 150 Aboriginal people who were then housed in 2 1 caravans. The local council and the New South Wales Government in 1971 moved them out of a flood area and put them into caravans on a temporary basis. Those 150 people had been living- and some still are- in deplorable overcrowded circumstances. Undoubtedly the Minister for the Capital Territory, who was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, now sitting at the table was well aware of the problem because he said: 'You go home and form a housing association. Get your articles of association drawn up and we will provide the funds'. In fact he said: 'What is your next problem?' And that was early last year. Only last week I introduced another deputation from Moree led by  Mr Neil  Mackerras, who is with the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, which was seeking to find out just where the funds have gone. They have formed their housing association, they have developed their articles of association, but they still have not received the money to get their association off the ground to overcome the immediate problem- and the urgent problem- of people who are still housed in deplorable conditions in caravans in my home town. 
In the meantime, the New South Wales Housing Commission and the Housing for Aborigines source of funds has given the only real help to the town of Moree in its efforts to overcome the great backlog of housing needs. As I said earlier, there are still people crowded into 6 caravans at Wiradji Crescent in Moree. So far the housing association concept in Moree has been a failure. The existing Housing Commission facilities in the State of New South Wales have proved to be by far the most effective and efficient means of getting funds to the people who need them most. It has proved that it can deliver the goods as long as it has got the funds available to it. The Housing Commission of New South Wales is a well established body, a body with very experienced officers who are well equipped to undertake projects and programs on a scale that we would like to see take place in Moree, Walgett, Bourke and all the other centres where there are great numbers of Aboriginal people still living in humpies and in deplorable conditions. 
As a matter of fact the graziers or the farmers provide probably the only source of employment for a lot of Aboriginal people in the Walgett-Collarenebri area, and the farmers and the community in the Walgett and Moree districts are not anti-Aboriginal. In fact, we do have a great degree of community participation, as the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  well knows. It is a very old hat, unfortunate idea that a lot of people have that those who live amongst the Aboriginal people, whether they be farmers, graziers or townspeople, are antiAboriginal, therefore racist. I have seen this written and I have heard it said. Of course there are people who do not treat the Aborigines well but by and large there is a great degree of cooperation today among people out in those areas to try to ensure that the Aboriginal people get a fair go. It may not always have been that way but I can say that that is the general attitude today. 
I want to turn now to what I was saying about the housing commissions. The New South Wales Housing Commission and the similar facilities and bodies that exist in all the States, including Queensland, surely provide the most efficient way to channel funds quickly and directly to the sources of need. It will take some time to set up housing associations, community organisations, and we are not always sure that we are going to get value for money. I am positive that it has been a great blunder on the part of the Government not to try to meet further with the Queensland Government to get that $3. 19m into areas of need in Queensland. I believe that out of spite and childish pique the Minister is going to deny housing to the Queensland Aborigines. The Aborigines themselves have had a taste of the Minister's standover tactics and his threat to cut off funds to the legal aid service unless it does as it is told, unless it is prepared to act as he wants it to act. I have in front of me some clippings of headlines and reports in various newspapers on this subject. In the 'Canberra Times' of 8 November, under the headline 'End intimidation, Aborigines told' the following report appeared: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  said yesterday that he would not talk to Aborigines on the present conflict between the NSW Aboriginal Legal Service and his department until 'all intimidatory action indulged in at Canberra ends'. 
A department spokesman confirmed that  Senator Cavanagh  wanted two tents put up by Aborigines opposite Parliament House removed and a planned demonstration today by 3 busloads of Aborigines called off. 
The report continues: 

 Senator Cavanagh, who was reported to be upset at the action of the Aborigines, telephoned his statement to the department in Canberra while on a 10-day tour of Aboriginal settlements in Western Australia. 
The honourable member for Macquarie asked me how I feel about the tents. That is a good question. Quite frankly, I do not think that it is a right and proper way in which to protest. I have demonstrated that in a very honest way. I did so publicly to my own disadvantage, but I had a job to do. I did not attempt to blackmail the Aborigines opposite Parliament House when the Government of which I was a Minister felt that those tents had to go. If one believes that they should not be there one should not, as a Minister of the Crown, try to blackmail people by saying: 'If you do not remove those tents you will not get your money'. I turn to a headline in another newspaper- the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. 
It is tolerance? All right. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 8 November 1974, under the heading 'No cash until tent goes', reported: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  has told the Aboriginal Legal Service of N.S.W. that he will not consider restoring funds to it until the Aboriginal 'embassy ' on the lawns of Parliament House is removed. 
Confirming this last night, a spokesman for  Senator Cavanagh  said Aborigines would also have to end all forms of protest in Canberra before talks could begin. 'Canberra blacks stop over funds' was the heading given to an article in the Melbourne 'Age' of 30 October. Another one in the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' said 'Hawke move to mediate with Minister'. We have Bob Hawke coming into the act. The article reads: 
The Federal  President  of the ALP,  Mr Hawke,  agreed last night to mediate in the dispute over the N.S.W. Aboriginal Legal Service. 
Good for Bob. I have no doubt that he was responsible for overcoming some of the difficulties because the heading given to an article in the Melbourne 'Age' of 9 November reads 'Cavanagh gives in to blacks. Money talks to be held Monday'. The article stated: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs . . . yesterday backed down in his row with the N.S.W. Aboriginal Legal Service. 
Good on him. I hope that he also sees the wisdom of backing down on what has been a blackmailing tactic against the Queensland Government. Therefore I move the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill: 
That all words after "That" be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the passage of this Bill the House is of the opinion that the Government's action in reducing the grant to the State of Queensland by $3,190,000 is contrary to the best interests of the Aboriginal people of Queensland and that the Government should take immediate steps to grant to that State a further sum of $3,190,000 as promised in the Budget. 
As I said earlier, I believe that the action that the Minister has taken against the Queensland Government and those who are protesting outside this House is a blackmail tactic, a petty tactic. Is it fair to the Queensland Aborigines to deny $3. 19m to the Queensland Government and to say: 'We will make it up by diverting funds to housing associations when they are established, when the money might be available'? It may not have the resources to spend it. Indeed, I suspect that it will not because, as we learned from this year's Estimates, $9m in that fund was unspent in any event last year. I believe that the action taken by the Minister, on behalf of the Government, is a contemptible one. I believe and the Opposition believes that it shows no regard for the people for which he is responsible. The protesting Aborigines certainly do not rate either the Minister or his Department highly. Indeed, they seem to want a royal commission of inquiry into the operations of the Department. Some are screaming for the abandonment of the Department and its replacement with a statutory body to administer Aboriginal affairs. In fact, I think that they want almost anything other than what they have at the present time. 
The Queensland Department could well be a more effective, acceptable and efficient means of distributing funds for the purposes of advancing the Aboriginal people. Take the Lewis Street project in Redfern. I am sorry that  Mr Speaker  is not in the chair because I am sure that he would listen with great interest to what I am about to say about this matter. Surely it must be a bad example, a shoddy example of the Department's housing programs. I understand that, due to the Department's inability for one reason or another to fund it, the project has now almost stopped, thus dashing the hopes of the enthusiastic Aborigines who started the whole thing off in the time of the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, no doubt with the best intentions and the best will in the world. The Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs and its Director have a relatively good record for a State with vast and difficult geographic and climatic conditions; yet they are to be denied $3. 19m because the Queensland Government apparently will not do as the Minister tells it to do. 
Of course there has been a history of some dispute between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government on this subject. I remind the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  of the former Minister's visit to Queensland in the early days after his assumption of office when he tried to interfere with the rights of the Torres Strait islanders. 
You,  Sir. I  think that the former Minister suggested at one stage that we might be able to trade some of the Torres Strait Islands. Was it not you who did that? 
I beg your pardon, but was there not a dispute? Did you not make a run up into the area and was the Premier of Queensland not concerned? 
The honourable member for Maranoa might have all the facts. I have a memory which does not always serve me well, but I do remember the rather lusty former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs - 
-No, I will not do that. That is not fair. I would like to return to the provisions of the Bill. I have noted that nearly one half of the $40.8m being allocated to the States is for housing. The balance is to be spent on education, health and other areas of need. From my experience in Aboriginal welfare I am bound to say that there is such a diversity in the level of advancement of Aborigines and in the levels of their living conditions that there is no simple common answer to the problem. The problems not only differ from State to State but also from community to community within a State. However, in most situations the greatest needs are housing, employment opportunity, education and adequate health care. 
In Moree, I would list the priorities in that order. I mention Moree because it contains the biggest Aboriginal community outside the city of Sydney. Dealing with housing in Moree, the current shortfall is still a very serious problem. As I have already said employment opportunity is very important in today's economic climate opportunities are not there, although I hope that some of the Regional Employment Development schemes may provide opportunities for the Aborigines in the near future. This, of course, leads to education and vocational training facilities for the young and, indeed, the adults. 
Pre-schools are essential. This has been proved in Moree where the Daughters of Charity conduct the Pope Pius Mission. They go right through the town of Moree and to the outskirts of the town each morning with 2 buses and bring every child of a pre-school age to the Pope Pius Mission for pre-school activity and also for medical check-ups. Every doctor in the town is an honorary doctor and, on a roster system, they attend to the health needs of the children. This is proving to be of tremendous advantage to the Aboriginal children. It is proving that this sort of care for the Aboriginal child equips him to enter the primary school, certainly to continue on into high school and hopefully into vocational training and worthwhile, satisfying employment. It will be a long hard road for those who genuinely set out to achieve the resolution of Aboriginal ambitions. It will take all the co-operation we can muster between governments, between black and white, between the Aboriginal communities themselves and, for that matter, between political parties. 
I am glad to say that the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, upon which I served under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  is, I think, performing a very valuable role because I do not think any body can serve on a committee that is less party political and which endeavours to approach its task with a more worthwhile objectivity. We must all set out with that common objective to work together to overcome one of the greatest social problems that plagues the country. I am sure that the Government does set out with good intentions. The amount of funds that the Government is allocating to try to overcome the problem I think is indicative of that. 
The extension of the Aboriginal Enterprises Assistance Act and, indeed, the Aboriginal Loans Commission has been a very wise step because it will provide a facility now for Aboriginal families to obtain such important household items as refrigerators, furniture, all types of floor coverings and so on. It will give the Aborigines a facility for loans that is not available to them elsewhere and at reasonable interest rates. The Opposition supports both Bills. Whilst it does not oppose the passage of the Bill it is of the opinion that the Government's action in reducing the grant to Queensland by $3, 1 90,000 is contrary to the best interests of the Aboriginal people of Queensland and that the Government should take immediate steps to grant that State a further sum of $3, 1 90,000 as promised in the Budget. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) In view of the announced total abandonment of the Area Manager concept within the Australian Post Office and the publication and acceptance in principle of the contents of the Vernon Committee Report, will the Postmaster-General ensure that the residual organisational aims are not being pursued by the Engineering Branch in country areas of New South Wales, in particular, the centralisation of some of the District Engineers' functions from Armidale and Narrandera to their respective area headquarters at Tamworth and Wagga Wagga. 
Will the Postmaster-General also ensure that a moratorium will be declared on any further administrative changes, which could pre-empt Parliamentary decisions on this matter, until the Postmaster-General submits the necessary legislation to the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice:  in view of the apparent inconsistencies in the Department's attitude to interim management systems developed prior to the introduction of some or all of the recommendations in the Vernon Committee Report, what recommendations in detail will be incorporated into legislation of the Government platform, and will they be implemented by the same or equally competent consultants who acted as advisers to the Vernon Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General ensure that Post Office staff will not be disadvantaged by any changes arising out of the Vernon Committee Report, in particular, that the status, promotional prospects and location of all serving offices will be preserved. 
-The Opposition supports both these Bills. I just want briefly to deal with the River Murray Waters Bill 1974. It is a Bill for an Act to amend the River Murray Waters Act 1 9 1 5- 1 973. The purpose of this Bill is to provide a more satisfactory basis for the employment of staff by the River Murray Commission. The Bill brings staff of the River Murray Commission within the scope of the Officers' Rights Declaration Act 1928-73 and the Superannuation Act 1922-74. In addition, the Bill permits the salaries of the statutory officers to be determined under the Remuneration Act 1973-74. An almost identical Bill was introduced to the House of Representatives on 7 March 1974 but lapsed with the occurrence of the double dissolution. We fully support the measure and hope that the legislation passes so that we will be better equipped to ensure that those who are employed by the River Murray Commission benefit from the provisions of the legislation. 
The States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Bill provides for grants to the States for the financial years 1974-75 and 1975-76 for the measurement of water quality of surface and underground water resources. In 1964 the Australian Water Resources Council recommended the adoption of an accelerated program of surface and underground investigation. The then Liberal-Country Party Commonwealth Government and the States adopted such a program to improve the knowledge of the rate of flow, the quality and the variations in the quantity of Australia's water resources. It has been a most successful co-operative program between the various States and the Commonwealth. Needless to say, the States have done most of the work, being responsible for most of Australia's water resources. However the former Ministers responsible, the Honourable David Fairbairn, and  Sir Reginald  Swartz who has now retired from the Parliament, must rate a mention of praise for the way in which they sought the co-operation of the States and for the way in which they succeeded in achieving this co-operation. 
Let no one assume that the Australian Government alone is giving the initiative or bears the brunt of the responsibility for water resources. Because of an inadequate reimbursement formula suffered by the States for many years these funds become necessary to assist the States in a comprehensive program. Clearly this is a typical area where the Commonwealth Government can and does, and indeed should, co-ordinate the resources of all the governments in the national interest. This Bill will enable the States to meet their commitments to the water quality assessment program- an objective endorsed by the Water Resources Council. 
Under the program the Australian Government contribution for water quality assessment is on a dollar for dollar basis with the States up to the specified sum of $807,905-5446,305 for surface water quality assessment and $361,600 for underground water quality assessment. 
Clause 4 of the Bill provides an amendment to section 3 of the principal Act to that 'assessment' is defined to include water quality measurement in addition to water quantity measurement. The schedule outlines the amounts to be allocated to each State for the purposes of assessing the surface and underground water resources. The cost of the program in each State has been determined by that State. It is an immensely worthwhile extension of the water resources assessment program. The data on quantity and quality of Australia's water resources is essential to a planned program of water conservation and water control, and indeed to the proper management of Australia's limited water resources. 
Water is fundamental to life. We occupy the most arid continent on earth. I wish to quote from a publication produced by the Australian Water Resources Council. It is Technical Paper No. 7 entitled 'A Compilation of Australian Water Quality Criteria '. It states: 
Except Tor the Antarctic, Australia is the most deficient continent in permanent bodies of standing water lakes, lagoons and ponds. Restricting consideration to permanent lakes, the only extensive natural lake land in Australia is that or the Tasmanian central plateau. This area contains lakes and ponds ranging in depth from less than 1 metre to more than 200 metres and in area from a fraction of a hectare to about ISO square kilometres. In addition, 5 permanent lakes occupy glaciated basins in high altitudes in the Australian Alps. Numerous lakes are found on the rest of the Australian mainland; they are frequently impermanent and may have high concentrations of dissolved minerals. 
I think that more or less gives some sort of background to the total problem that Australia faces with regard to its water resources. The economic growth of Australia could well be determined by the success or failure of our governments to assess the availability of water resources and their quality, to adequately conserve and use wisely our often limited water and to develop sound land and water use policies. There is an interaction and integration of forces which should ultimately determine land and water use patterns. I see water resources and land use as being interlocked. It is essential that there be: Firstly, effective use of our land resources; secondly, effective long term improvement of our land resources as well as an effective use of water resources and long term plans for the provision of good quality water. 
No civilisation, regardless of its technical or industrial sophistication, can exist without sufficiently cared-for topsoil. The example of the bad effects of early civilisations on land in the Middle East has surely left behind its lessons to mankind. The day has gone when man can simply take unto himself a block of land and exploit its total yield and productive capacity in his own lifetime. We can no longer tolerate the ruthless raping of our water and land resources and leave the next generation to get on the best way it can. Effective land use policies must be based upon the realisation that there are multi- purpose uses of the resources of the land and the water, that each reacts upon the other with long term and often disastrously unforeseen results. 
Although this Bill deals with water quality assessment I want to press a view that I believe needs to be heeded. Research in land use and water use should be against the following backgrounds: Firstly, the acceptance of the interaction of the multi-purpose uses of water and land; secondly, the population distribution; and thirdly, regional considerations often determined by river valleys and the natural forces of the terrain, and not State boundaries. Thus the Federal system of government in Australia will have to be made to work in a co-operative land and water use sense in the interests of all Australians. 
Probably the best example of the need for a national land use policy is the Murray-Darling basin. This is the largest Australian river system. It drains a vast area of the eastern States inland from our eastern highlands. This vast catchment stretches from northern and central Queensland, close to Melbourne and across to South Australia. Most of the terrain is gently sloping, has a relatively low rainfall and the geographic and climatic factors, while contributing to a wide ranging agricultural activity, contain in them nevertheless inherent dangers, such as: First, the effects of low rainfall; secondly, the effects of flooding; thirdly, water pollution which takes some time to pass through the system; fourthly, salinity levels in the rivers and salinity problems affecting agricultural production; fifthly, water supplies to urban communities; and sixthly, water supply problems so far as quality and quantity are concerned and their effect upon South Australia, which is becoming an industrialised community. 
Although we are gathering water quantity and quality data in a co-ordinated manner as between the States, there is no apparent desire to develop co-ordinated or coherent agreed land use policies which take these factors and other interacting factors into account. The lack of land use strategy in the Murray-Darling basin is now beginning to show its ugly head with the emergence of the serious salinity problem in that valley. It is a problem of which, I know, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  is aware. 
The problem is a cumulative one. It will not be solved by piecemeal methods. There is a need for an agreed land use policy, not ordered or administered necessarily by the' Australian Government but devised on a co-operative basis among the States and administered by the States. If the Commonwealth can assist in a coordinating role, it should do so, but I believe this should be only at the request of the States. The Commonwealth should finance the States in a program, first, to undertake a land use survey; secondly, to establish a land use inventory; and thirdly, to develop a national land use strategy. In the process of developing this strategy it is essential that the desirability of such a program is understood by the people. It is the community at large which will either accept or reject such concepts. It is the community at large which will have to pay the costs of such a policy. 
The Murray-Murrumbidgee system provides 20 per cent of our food needs as a nation. It is a region to which special consideration should be given. In order to understand the problems of the area much research will need to be undertaken. A lot of money ultimately will need to be spent to overcome the problems which have occurred. But I believe that that expenditure should be met by the community at large. It will be necessary to have co-ordinated controls to re-establish the land and to enhance its productive capacity for coming generations. However, in such national programs to preserve our soil and to improve the quality of our surface and underground water no one section of the community should pay. It should be a charge against the national account. 
I have digressed from the sole purpose of the Bill, but I do hope that we see a co-operative effort among the States and, indeed, the Commonwealth, to bite the bullet before it is too late. It should not be done in any doctrinaire sense in order to achieve State ownership of land or State control. It should not disturb man's relationship to his land or to his sense of private occupancy of that land, but more as an effort to ensure that he is assisted to adopt sensible land use practices in accordance with an overall national strategy and to ensure that the land's productive capacity is not denied to future generations. I believe that this should be an objective that we should all set out to achieve. I do not think that we can afford to witness a situation where State and Commonwealth governments are not prepared to share jointly a responsibility for what is probably one of the biggest problems concerning land use in Australia. I know that there are differences among the States as to how these matters should be tackled. But too much procrastination could well reduce the productive capacity of this country to a dangerous level for future generations. 
In conclusion, I quote  Mr R.  G. Downes. I think his comments are worth reading into Hansard. He said: 
Conservation is an exercise in applied ecology to fit man into his environment so as to provide for his needs now and in the future in a manner which will maintain a satisfactory human habitat. 
Surely that is what we should be setting out to achieve. I believe that the States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Bill 1974 does provide some of the facility that is necessary to achieve the sort of research that will be required to establish the data upon which we must hasten to adopt a strategy for the proper use of land in Australia, and to overcome this very real problem of salinity of which the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and certainly the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  are so well aware. I have not had an opportunity to visit this area in recent years, but I hope to go down there in the not too distant future to try really to come to grips with and to see for myself the great problem that farmers and the community are suffering as a result of this most serious difficulty. I commend both Bills to the House. The Opposition supports them. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.56)- I congratulate the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  on his contribution to the debate on this legislation. I also support the States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Bill 1974 because it provides $807,905 for the assessment of water quality, in addition to the present water resources program for the assessment of water quantity. When the principal Bill was introduced in May 1973 1 made the statement that the States sharing the grant of $ 15.1m had an obligation to protect the quality as well as the quantity of our streams. It is some satisfaction tonight to be able to support a Bill which indicates that the States are entering into a partnership with the Federal Government to provide for water quality as well as water quantity and to assess concurrently water quality and water quantity. 
It is hard to understand why the Australian Water Resources Council, set up in 1964, has taken so long to recommend this provision. The reason could be that the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government made a grant of only $2. 8m in 1964 and that 6 years later this grant had risen to only $8.2m. How could the States be expected to take on greater responsibility if they have never had enough funds to cover those responsibilities that they already had in hand? Labor saw the problem. In 1973 it increased the grant to $ 15.1m. This was an increase of 85 per cent. In my opinion this action spells out clearly the Australian Government's determination to provide a sufficient quantity of water. The Bill before the House indicates the Government's determination to provide for proper quality of that water, so necessary for our own agricultural, industrial, domestic and indeed recreational requirements. Our efforts nevertheless will be in vain if we allow our streams to be polluted as they have been in the past. 
I have no doubt that this Bill will bring much satisfaction to people in my electorate. For a long time they have been concerned with the discharge of highly saline water from Lake Hawthorn into the Wentworth Lock Pool which is upstream from Coomealla and Curlwaa pumps. This Bill should result in some light being focussed on such happenings. At present it is the responsibility of the Victorian Government to pump water from Lake Hawthorn into evaporation basins further away from the river so that the water cannot flow back into the Darling River. Five years ago $ 1.6m was made available by the Commonwealth so that the Victorian Government could carry out this function, but unfortunately during periods of high flow large quantities of highly saline water are allowed to flow back into, the river. I have pointed out in previous speeches that River Murray Commission reports have shown that less water has been pumped each year into the evaporation basin, yet more water has been allowed to flow back into the River Murray. As a matter of fact, it fell from 2,150 acre feet in 1969-70 to as little as 755 acre feet in 1971-72. Yet in the Barr Creek disposal scheme, which is of a similar nature, the quantity increased from 6,810 acre feet in 1969-70 to 10,570 acre feet in 1970-71. 
Water users in New South Wales and South Australia claim that Victoria is concerned about the quality of the water that passes through Victoria but is little concerned with the quality of the water further down stream. The 1 973 River Murray Commission report shows, fortunately , a substantial increase in the amount of water that has been pumped from Lake Hawthorne. It states: 
The Lake Hawthorne pumps diverted to the Wargan basins a volume of 4,638 acre' feet containing 2 1,455 tons of salt. 
This is a big improvement on the figures I mentioned previously. However, one must still have grave doubts about the Victorian Government's concern for the quality of water further downstream, because the River Murray Commission report also states: 
At Merbein in 4 of the 12 months, the salinity exceeded 300 p.p.m. TDS and at Waikerie the salinity exceeded 500 p.p.m. TDS in 7 of the 12 months. 
I point out that 'p.p.m.' means part per million and 'TDS' means total dissolved solids. The report goes on: 
It would appear that the present amounts of saline inflows in the Sunraysia area, the dilution flow requirements of the agreement are not capable of maintaining 300 p.p.m. TDS at Merbein during severe drought conditions. 
It seems as though during severe drought conditions the Victorian Government is concerned about the quality of the Victorian water, but further downstream at Merbein salinity reaches 300 p.p.m., and at Waikerie it is already 500 p.p.m. I think this indicates that water users have some grounds for saying that something is happening in Victoria that is not in the best interests of the water users further down. I ask anyone who disagrees with this statement to examine another report entitled 'Water Resources Newsletter', No. 22 Winter, 1 974. On page 33 it states: 
Water quality is to be improved at Stanhope, and at Strathfieldsaye in connection with augmentation of supply to meet further needs. At Robinvale urban ratepayers have the option by vote of a new pump and rising main to draw water from the Murray River upstream of discharges from town drains and of effluents from partial treatment works. 
This means that a pump is installed upstream from where the water is polluted, but the pollution runs further downstream. The report also contains a good statement made by an overseas expert on water pollution problems. The report states: 'Australia faces critical water pollution and should act now, ' said an American expert, Professor W. W. Eckenfelder who is professor of environmental and water resources engineering at the University of Nashville, Tennessee. 
I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the remainder of this section of the report. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there a relatively high per capita wastage of paper and other goods in the Australian Capital Territory, which could be recycled. 
) Has his Department the responsibility for the recycling of waste paper, bottles and other goods in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, what action is being taken in Canberra to implement an exemplary system for the rest of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 479 which I placed on the Notice Paper on 17 July 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the report from the Woodward Commission of Inquiry into Land Rights for Aborigines, has the Government now determined on what basis it will proceed to provide land for the Gurindji at Wattie Creek (Daguragu). 
Will people of tribal origins, other than Gurindji, living at Wattie Creek be able to share in the land obtained by the Gurindji. 
Can the Minister indicate when he will make a firm announcement on this matter. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the Chair to refer to the acoustics in this chamber. In the course of question time this morning you had occasion to remind the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to talk into the microphone. It is not the first time you have had to remind him and other Ministers at the table. I ask that, in the summer recess, some effort be made by the Joint House Committee or whoever is responsible to improve the acoustics in the chamber. Since an attempt was made to improve the acoustics by the installation of the apparatus that we see around us, the acoustics on the floor of this chamber have gone from bad to worse. 
It is the opinion of most honourable members more of whom nowadays are using ear phones or ear plugs, but there are not enough points for plugs. It will be noticed that the honourable member for Kennedy and the honourable member for Fisher are using the only 2 plugs available on the front bench where members of the Australian Country Party sit. Insufficient plugs are available for those who wish to hear as accurately as possible answers to questions. I ask,  Mr Speaker,  that some effort be made to try to improve the acoustics of this chamber during the summer recess. I believe they are appalling. 
-The Opposition supports the Aboriginal Land Fund Bill which derives from an initiative developed in 1971 by the McMahon Government. On 26 January 1972 the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  in an Australia Day statement on Aboriginal policy stated: 
Land Off Reserves 
There are many Aborigines in Commonwealth Territories living outside Reserves, some of whom belong to recognisable communities or groups. 
The Government desires to give them the opportunity of access to specific areas of land to use and develop for economic and social purposes. 
We intend therefore, as opportunity offers, to acquire properties off Reserves for this purpose. 
Most of the areas outside Reserves have, however, been alienated to other holders for a variety of purposes. But such areas of land do, from time to time, become available for purchase. 
When they do, the Government will use Commonwealth funds to make purchases for Aboriginal communities. 
To this end the Government has decided to appropriate a sum of $5m for the first year and would contemplate a further $2m in each year for the ensuing 4 years. 
The funds allocated for the purchase of land for Aboriginal communities will, with the co-operation of the States, be available for the benefit of communities in the States as well. 
So the House will see that the initiative was developed in 1971. It was announced on Australia Day 1972. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  made this comment in his second reading speech: 
In addition to recommending that Aboriginal reserves and certain other lands in the Northern Territory should be vested in Aborigines, and that machinery should be 'set up to enable Aboriginal claims to other lands to be considered, the report recommended that a fund or funds should be set up from which additional lands could be purchased for Aborigines . . . Arrangements proposed in the Bill will formalise existing Government policy and practice in respect of acquisition of land by Aboriginals. Although the former Government did not recognise Aboriginal rights in land, it did recognise the need of many Aboriginals living outside reserves for land to use and develop for economic and social purposes. 
He goes on to say that Prime Minister McMahon on 26 January announced a new policy to purchase land outside reserves for Aboriginal communities. It is not exactly true to say that the former Government did not recognise Aboriginal rights in land. In the strict legal sense to which the Minister probably referred it did not but in the Northern Territory at the time that that Government went out of office it had approved 1 10 rights to land or tenures to land or entitlements to land. Of these, 2 pastoral areas had been granted, one at Roper River and one at Port Keats. Two others had been approved but the final details had not been resolved. In order to settle applications from differing groups in the Northern Territory for leases where there was perhaps a conflict between one Aboriginal community and another the former Government set up what is called the Northern Territory Land Board. That Board had a membership of five, two of whom were Aboriginal people who were chosen from the area from which applications came for areas of land. So it was not quite true to say that the former Government did not, as the 
Minister has said, recognised Aboriginal rights in land. Indeed we recognised that the Aboriginal tribes and clans in Arnhem Land certainly had unalienable rights to the land in which they lived and on which they hunted. We saw some difficulty in trying to apply this policy off reserves. I am sure the present Government is finding a similar difficulty. 
Within the reserves in the Northern Territoryand there are 92,000 square miles of them- we have, I think, one-third of the Aboriginal people. The areas that are encompassed by the boundaries of these reserves were arbitrarily drawn by white legislators. They took no account of the conflicting needs or rights of the Aboriginal clans at all. We always sensed that there would be some difficulty in trying to apply this land rights principle to Aborigines living off reserves. To overcome that problem it was resolved that we should set up a land fund to buy land for Aborigines off reserves both in the Northern Territory and in the States. The Opposition fully approves the establishment of a commission with 5 commissioners, two of whom shall be Aboriginal people. In accordance with the policy of the former Government this Government has adopted the principle of providing 2 members out of the membership of five on the commission to help determine matters of ownership. 
The Opposition also would like to draw attention to the fact that a number of properties have already been acquired for Aboriginal groups throughout Australia. The Minister refers to the properties of Willowra and Kildurk in the Northern Territory and Everard Park in South Australia. Interestingly enough, all the properties that the Minister mentioned and indeed most of the properties that have, in fact, been acquired for the Aborigines throughout Australia were the subject of negotiation, if not acquisition, at the time the Labor Government achieved office. I wish to make some remarks to put paid to some of the criticisms and comments that have been levelled at my Party, the Australian Country Party. It has been called a racist party by those whom it suits to call it a racist party. Indeed the Liberal Party has also been called a racist party. In fact, I think the Labor Party has been called racist from time to time by those who want to call it that. But there is a general trend towards trying to overcome this great land problem for Aborigines by most political parties. 
It is pleasing to see the Government moving ahead with some of its initiatives and perhaps taking a bolder approach than the former Government did in achieving some justice for the 
Aboriginal people. The Opposition also endorses the concept that land vested in Aboriginal corporations cannot be alienated without Government approval. This, of course, will ensure that land acquired will not be disposed of without proper consultation. This is rather important because I am sure that people will appreciate there would not be much sense in setting aside areas for the use and benefit of Aboriginal people, or even purchasing land for them whether it be Everard Park or Willowra Station, to find that in 10 years time, or less than that, those who have purchased the land have sold it to another person or group- it could be a white person- without giving due consideration to the problem of dispossession of the Aboriginal people. I think this is a proper consideration and I commend the Government for having taken it into account. 
I want to direct my attention to the unsatisfactory methods of valuation and acquisition of land for Aboriginal communities. When the Opposition Parties were in government they considered the methods that should be adopted for acquiring land under the new fund for the purposes of Aboriginal communities, groups or individuals. Two options were open- the first by using the Lands Acquisition Act and the second by providing funds to Aboriginal groups, trusts, or associations enabling them to buy the land. Clearly, the Government has adopted the second method, which does not provide the protection of the Lands Acquisition Act to either the purchaser or the vendor. The system being employed by the Whitlam Government is conducive to the possibility of vendors raising prices where a private sale is involved. The method adopted by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs throws the door open to possible unsavoury commercial practice and/or bad commercial practice. 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs has not altogether earned itself a great reputation for being sound in commercial judgment. I refer to the Queensland turtle enterprise which was exposed by  Senator Georges  and which leaves no doubt as to the Department's capacity in the field of commercial enterprise. It is due to the option chosen by the Department and the Minister that I have placed on the notice paper a number of questions regarding the purchase of land for Aboriginal communities. I asked the Minister in Question No. 790: 
1 ) Is his Department purchasing land Tor Aborigines oft* reserves in accordance with the terms of the Lands Acquisition Act. 
If not, what methods of acquisition have been adopted. 
Will he provide details of all property and land purchased by the Government for Aborigines throughout Australia, giving the names of the vendors and the buyers and the amount paid for each property. 
On 6 November I received the following answer 
No. 
Funds are being provided to communities to permit them to purchase land. 
The following properties have been purchased by Aboriginal communities since December 1972 - 
The properties included Kildurk Station, the purchaser being Kildurk Station Pty Ltd, the vendor being Reg Durack and the amount paid being $829,000, walk-in walk-out. Also listed were Willowra Station and Glenairy/Sunnyside in New South Wales. The vendors were Rice Brothers and the amount paid was $ 1 30,000. 
I then placed another question on the notice paper as follows: 
1 ) With reference to the answers to my Questions Nos 1225 of 6 November 1973 and 1339 of 15 November 1973 which stated that Kildurk Station was valued by private consultants at $9 19,000 - 
I emphasise the words 'valued by private consultants '-  and that Glenairy/Sunnyside was similarly valued at $125,000, will the Minister obtain, and provide the House with, the Valuer-General's valuation of these properties at the time of their purchase. 
On 20 September the Minister replied as follows: 
1 ) No. I am satisfied that while Government valuations were not made, satisfactory valuations were obtained from private consultants. 
Here is a situation in which millions of dollars of public funds are about to be spent on the acquiring of land outside the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act, not using the Valuer-General's valuations but using private consultants. The reply continued: 
The Auditor-General's report of March 1972 on the Department of Aboriginal Affairs referred at pages 8 and 9, and 38 and 39 to the purchase of Kildurk Station; the properties referred to in paragraph 1(c) of Appendix A to the Report were Glenairy and Sunnyside. It is evident therefore that these transactions have been reviewed by the Auditor-General. 
That might satisfy the Minister but it does not satisfy me. I do not think the Auditor-General was particularly satisfied because the AuditorGeneral 's report on Aboriginal Affairs, at page 9, deals at length with Kildurk Station. Although the Department provided some information to try to satisfy the Auditor-General, his comment was thus: 
Serious deficiencies existed in the Department's administrative and financial control over substantial expenditure from the Trust Account. The Department has assured my Office that it is no longer making payments of grants before the moneys are required. Advice has also been received of action taken or proposed to improve the departmental control over the expenditure by organisations, etc., of grants received from the Trust Account. It is a matter for concern, however, that the Department considers it impracticable and unrealistic at this stage to undertake the task of confirming that all grants made in previous years have been expended for the purposes for which they were approved. If the control over grants is to be effective it should be maintained on a current basis. 
That does not really cover the question I raised about Kildurk Station. I am documenting this for the purposes of Hansard because I do not like the way things have gone. On 15 October 1974 I placed on notice another question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I want to read it because it remains unanswered. It is question 1306 and reads: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to my question No. 498 (Hansard, 26 September 1974, page 1928), were the funds for the purchase of Kildurk Station and Glenairy-Sunnyside provided by way of grant or loan and, if by way of loan, what were its terms. 
Is it a fact that the valuations by private consultants of Willowra Station in the Northern Territory were higher than that of the Government Valuer, and was the price paid that recommended by the private consultant. 
Was the same private consultant used in connection with the purchase of Kildurk Station as for Willowra. 
What action was taken to confirm the recommendation of the private consultant advising on the value of Kildurk to ensure that the property was not purchased from public funds at an excessive price. 
The fifth part of that question is very significant and will need to be answered. It reads as follows: 
Has the firm of consultants who advised on the valuation of Kildurk Station any role as adviser in running AmanbidgiPty Ltd. 
I will be very interested to see whether there is relationship because we could well see a situation where funds are being provided by the Australian Government to an Aboriginal loans commission fund and purchases or acquisitions are being made on the advice of a valuation tendered by a consultant who we might find is the same consultant responsible for advising the Government or the Aboriginal community as to how that farm, property, land or undertaking shall be run. I think those sorts or things lead not just me but the public and the Auditor-General to run a critical eye over the activities of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I believe that the whole administrative procedure is appalling; it reflects discredit on the Minister, the Department and the Government; and it gives some credence to those Aborigines who seek a royal commission into the Charles Perkins allegations. I do not know whether those allegations are right or wrong, but while the administration of Aboriginal affairs is conducted in this way there will be criticism of it. The Government can spend as  many millions of dollars as it likes, but if the department has a smell about its operation, if it can lay itself open to charges of malpractice, it can destroy the value of its intention. 
My principal concern is that there appears to be a wish to avoid proper procedures within the departmental structure. If there is to be a statutory authority it is a new ball game, but while the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has a responsibility it must follow proper procedures; it should follow the normal regulations. If land is to be purchased for a Commonwealth purpose, the Department should surely use the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act rather than acquire land at great cost, running into millions of dollars, use consultants to determine the value of that land in the Northern Territory or wherever it might be, and then use the same consultants to advise the Government as to how the land should be utilised after its purchase. It does not look good on the surface. I do not suggest that there is anything wrong below the surface, but it leaves the doors open for incriminations and allegations, and I do not think that it protects the public coffers as well as it should and I do not think that it protects the Aborigines from abuse. 
Certain procedures have been designed to prevent the Government from paying prices that are too high for properties for Aborigines outside reserves, and this House is entitled to know whether the amounts of public money expended to buy Willowra, Kildurk Station in the Northern Territory, Everard Park in South Australia and Panther Downs in Western Australia accord with the values of the properties as assessed by the Valuer-General or the Government's valuers. If more was paid for these properties than the valuation imposed upon them by the Valuer-General, we are entitled to know why. Unless the Minister is able to assure the House that the prices paid were no more than the values assessed by the Government's own valuer, then there is a clear case for a royal commission. 
It is these sloppy approaches to the administration of Aboriginal affairs that hastens me to caution the Government against taking over the administration of Aboriginal affairs from the States. I know that there are problems in the States, but I do not think that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is ready or is in any shape or form to try to take over responsibility for Aboriginal people in Queensland or New South Wales or South Australia or Western Australia. It has not been able to achieve its targets. It has not been able to free itself of all sorts of allegations and charges in areas where it has direct responsibility. So before expanding its areas of responsibility the Department needs to put its own house in order. Then, having done that and having gained the expertise that it would require, that would be time enough to think about taking over the administration of Aboriginal affairs in Queensland or elsewhere. Having said that, we support the Bill in the hope that action will be taken to tighten up the sloppy procedures in land purchase and to clean up the whole shoddy business. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented. 

 -No. Mr Speaker. 

Yes, I want to reply to something that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  attributed to me. 
-I will not pursue it further. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What sum in public funds has been invested in improving working equipment and conditions on the Australian waterfront during the last S years. 
How much has been invested in each port in Australia during this time. 
Has any attempt been made to measure the increases in productivity and efficiency as a result of this investment. 
Has there been any improvement in the turn around in general cargo vessels in the Port of Sydney during this period. 
-I raise one matter in relation to something that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  happened to say in the course of his address to the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Bill. I agree with the honourable member for Adelaide that very little publicity is given to the debates in which the Opposition in fact agrees with legislation that is brought into the House by the Government. I think this is a great pity. I believe that at times not so much the standard of reporting but the standard of editing in our national newspapers is not in the best interests of the public. This is because so much legislation passes through the Parliament in regard to which there has been agreement between the Opposition and the Government but in regard to which some very constructive suggestions have come from honourable members on this side of the House. Of course, this passes without the general knowledge of the public. I think it is a great pity that this is so. That far we are in agreement. However, I hope that the honourable member did not suggest or understand that I was not in agreement with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  who spoke in this debate earlier today. 
Very well. So we are in agreement on the first part at any rate. 
I preface my comments on the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill and also the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Bill by thanking the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  for his frank and ready co-operation in an endeavour to reach consensus on a number of matters that have concerned the Opposition. One cannot help but commend the Minister for the initiatives he has taken. The Opposition has some criticisms of the drafting of the Bill and also of the means by which it seeks to achieve the objectives which the Minister sets out in his second reading speech. However, I do not have any reservations about the Minister's sincerity or his concern. I also appreciate the readiness with which he has offered me his co-operation and that of the officers of his Department. 
I am sure that the Minister agrees with the view that the environment does not belong to any one group or party or section of the community. It belongs to and embraces everyone. It evokes the past, it belongs to the future and it is the responsibility of the present. For that reason I would deplore any attempt to play party politics in dealing with a Bill of this nature. Co-operation rather than confrontation is certainly what I, speaking on behalf of the Opposition, will offer to the Government. We need co-operation amongst the members of this Parliament, amongst Federal, State and local government bodies, and amongst parties at all levels and the community at large. The people must know what we are seeking to achieve and how and why we will achieve it. It was an essentially practical politician, President Pompidou, who coined the phrase 'environment ethic'. A French writer explained: 
The need for such an ethic is only too obvious. It would be impossible to pin down all the factors that influence the quality of life and to reshape and codify them into a rule bookone that stood a ghost's chance of being respected- without the general support of the public, or at least its benevolent neutrality. Each person who makes noise or otherwise contributes to polluting the environment - 
Or, I would add, transgresses the regulations governing a national park-  cannot be shadowed by a policeman 24 hours a day to keep him in line. In exercising his freedom the individual must respect the  feedom  of others. Hence the need for him to live by a set of rules that he himself has acquired more by education or by the example of his elders than by logic or morality. 
I ask the Minister to accept the Opposition 's criticism of the Bill and the amendments which the Opposition proposes as being prompted by the wish to see a wider acceptance of this environment ethic, and to see this Bill becoming a potent force in securing that acceptance. 
I wish to deal with the Bill as a whole, but not in detail. Other speakers from the Opposition will devote their attention to other aspects of the legislation. I understand that the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  will deal with some of the constitutional factors that arise from the Bill and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  will deal with the powers of rangers, etc. My colleague and friend the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  will bring to the Minister's attention some of the factors relating to wildlife conservation in the Northern Territory. The Minister, in his second reading speech, stated: 
The Bill proposes the establishment of a professional service to enable the Australian Government, for the first time, to bring a co-ordinated approach to the management of nature conservation resources in areas under its direct control. 
The Opposition is in broad agreement with this proposal, with the reservation that every effort must be made to ensure that in the  Northern  Territory, for instance, the local authorities are involved in both an advisory and administrative capacity. The Minister went on to say: 
The Government will move quickly for the proclamation of a number of outstanding areas. Foremost is the proposed Kakadu National Park. 
The Minister quoted the words of my predecessor as Minster for the Interior, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  I think it was in 1970, when indicating the former Government's intention to survey and develop a park in  the top end of the Northern Territory, that he said that the areas 'could produce a great park for public interest and enjoyment as well as making a major contribution to conservation'. Naturally I agree with the view that he expressed then and the view that the Minister has expressed since. I approve of the avowed intention of the Minister. However, I do not consider that the announcement of the proposed proclamation is anything more than a declaration of good intent on the Minister's part at this stage. The issue in the Northern Territory is a broader one than the mere proclamation of one national park, with the promise of more to follow. The future of all the 37 reserves under the control of the Northern Territory Reserves Board is the real point at issue. The Minister has very rightly sought the comments of the Board on the proposed legislation. The  Chairman  of the Board has sent me a copy of his comments and I think they deserve serious consideration. The main recommendations made by the Board are: 
The Board resolved that it be suggested to the Minister Tor the Northern Territory that he recommit to Cabinet its decision concerning some of the functions allotted to the Department of Environment and Conservation, to enable it to take account of some aspects of this matter that may have been overlooked when its decision was made. 
For example, the Board recommends that- 
Responsibility for national parks and wildlife remain under local control. 
b ) National parks and wildlife be combined 
The controlling body be a statutory authority and not a branch of the Department of the Northern Territory. 
) It be adequately staffed and better funded. 
The Reserves Board be restructured. 
The Board considers that the Department of the Environment and Conservation should act as a policy body and give assistance with finance, co-ordination etc., for all States and Territories. 
I draw the Minister's attention to the relevant portions of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate. Chapter 3, paragraph 235 of the report states: 
Perhaps of all the parks authorities in Australia, the Northern Territory Reserves Board stands out as one which exercises unequivocal control over its areas, subject to limitations of staff and finance. 
It then quotes from the Reserves Board's submission to the Committee, which states: 
It is considered that a land use study should be conducted as a matter of urgency so that the land and resources of the Northern Territory can be used to the best adavan.tage . . . It is the Board's opinion that unless this opportunity is seized by the Australian Government at an early date the extent and value of available land will deteriorate rapidly. 
Knowing the Minister's commitment to the cause which this Bill is intended to promote, I feel confident that he will appreciate the urgency of the situation and the importance of the views of the Northern Territory Board members and of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate. I feel confident that he will appreciate the opportunity presented to him of making the national park system in the Northern Territory a model of enlightened and far sighted cooperation at all levels of government. I ask him to consider the views of the newly elected members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I was asked to quote from a telegram I received on 18 November 1974 from  Dr  Goff  Letts, who is the majority leader in the Legislative Assembly. It reads as follows: 
National Parks and Wildlife Bill due further consideration this week will have greatest impact Northern Territory. There have been no public hearings or proper consultations as suggested in first principle of stated functions of Department of the Environment and Conservation. I have prepared statement for first meeting Legislative Assembly this week. Not opposed certain concepts in Bill, for example greater national co-ordination, facilities for training, consolidation existing statutes and organisations but must insist on local participation in control and management wildlife and national parks. Without any consultation the Canberra Bill will supersede local legislation. Minor amendments not enough. Recommend defer or withdraw Bill until (a) Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory tables report, (b) Government considers executive role newly elected Assembly after studying above report, (c) Ministers for the Northern Territory and the Environment have discussions with Assembly representatives, (d) Northern Territory public properly consulted. Further passage Bill this week would show contempt Territory people and the new Assembly. 
This matter was given due consideration, but the Opposition was not of the view that it should be deferred at this stage. It believes that the views of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly should be noted, considered and dealt with in a proper way by the Minister and his Department. For that reason I move the following amendment to the motion for the second reading: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'Whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, this House is of the opinion that the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory should not have been bypassed and that statutory authorities and voluntary environmental and conservation groups in the Territory should be directly and continuously involved in the preparation and review of the plans of management and the administration of parks, reserves and wilderness zones within the Northern Territory'. 
The Minister stated that the second objective of establishing a national parks and wildlife service was to 'facilitate co-operation with the States in the national nature conservation effort'. The States Grants (National Conservation) Bill,  which provides $9m to the States for nature conservation purposes, is a highly desirable objective. I commend the Government and the Minister on this Bill and on the initiative that has been taken to assist the States in acquiring suitable additional areas for national parks, reserves, sanctuaries and wilderness areas within their own boundaries. 
The Minister stated that the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers, set up on this Government's initiative, will help in the development of a national approach to the conservation of our unique fauna and flora. Undoubtedly we all support the objective and the initiative of the Government in this regard. CommonwealthState co-operation in this area is essential. If a national approach is to develop the States will be looking to the Federal Government for reassurance. The first requirement will be that the Federal Govenment does not intend to take over State responsibilities for their proclaimed national parks and duplicate nature conservation programs in the States, and secondly, that it does not intend to override the States in regard to wildlife control. With regard to the former, I would like to remind the House that the achievement of some of the States and the Northern Territory Reserves Board in the declaration of national parks and State parks is outstanding. I have already mentioned that the Northern Territory Reserves Board has successfully developed 37 reserves during the past 1 8 years. The honourable member for the Northern Territory was for many years one of the driving forces in the Board's achievements. Certainly the efforts of  Colonel Rose,  who I think has retired, have been monumental in the field of nature conservation in the Northern Territory. He was one of the great pioneers of conservation in the Territory. 
In New South Wales declared park areas have more than doubled in the last 8 years and now total over 4 million acres. Few honourable members would be aware of the fact that within a radius of 72 miles of the centre of Sydney 18 per cent of the land is parkland- a figure matched by few other cities in the world. It would be the height of folly to disrupt or duplicate the efforts which the States have already exerted in this field. For that reason I propose to move an amendment to this Bill which is designed to prevent the Federal Government from taking over the States' responsibilities in existing reserves unless requested to do so. 
In the second area of concern- the preservation of the rights of the States in regard to wildlife control- the Minister expressed the hope that the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers would help to achieve co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. I am afraid that this hope is some way from being realised. In its present form and in the present climate of opinion the Council is achieving and is likely to achieve very little. As the Minister will recall, this Council was established on 2 1 January 1 974 to replace a regular conference of national parks Ministers which was achieving considerable success in developing a national approach. The attitude of one of the State Ministers was expressed in these words: 
The Council of Nature Conservation Ministers has been singularly unsuccessful in this regard, and this has been due to the present Government's actions in respect of kangaroo conservation - 
Another Minister's comments were more trenchant. He wrote: 
One of the first actions taken by  Dr Cass  was to promote the formation of a Council of Nature Conservation Ministers. So successful has this been in promoting Federal Government assistance and co-ordination that New South Wales has refused to join and the 2 meetings I have attended have been taken up with round-the-table wrangling on the kangaroo export ban. The difficulty is that the only Federal Minister with any constitutional power in this field is not even a member of the Council. I refer to  Senator Murphy,  who is using his Customs powers to implement major conservation policy. The situation is untenable. 
The same Minister said of  Senator Murphy's  intervention: 
The action of  Senator Murphy  in banning kangaroo exports, taken unilaterally, not even on the advice of  Dr Cass,  but on the advice of Professor Harry Messel, a physics professor, and Marion Newman, a Washington housewife, has made the present Government a laughing stock in country areas. Reputable scientists in the States and CSIRO are astounded and dismayed that their advice was not sought prior to  Senator Murphy  taking this action. 
I have quoted enough to show that something less than perfect confidence exists between the Federal and State governments on this issue. The House should bear this in mind when debating this Bill. Properly drafted, and enjoying support from all parties, it could be a major instrument for allaying the fears of the States and laying sure foundations for future co-operation. 
So much for the Opposition's general feelings about the Bill. Before looking at some of the clauses I want to make a few other comments. This Bill provides a broad framework for the Australian Government to establish and manage national parks, reserves, wilderness areas and sanctuaries anywhere in Australia or in the coastal seas. It would appear that the constitutional powers relied upon to enable the Australian Government to achieve its objectives in this Bill are to be found in clauses 5 and 6. Clause 5 states: 
This Act binds the Crown in right of Australia or of a State. 
Clause 6, however, is the key to the Bill. This clause purports to set out the objects of Part II of the Bill. It states that the heads of power relied upon are the appropriation power, the Territories power, the power with respect to Territorial water and the Continental Shelf, the external affairs power, and the trade and commerce power. However, I will leave matters relating to the constitutional aspects of this legislation to my colleague, the honourable member for Went.worth (Mr Ellicott) 
I turn now to the clauses that have been of concern to the Opposition. Broadly, they can be summed up as follows: First, there appears to be provision for the Commonwealth to acquire existing areas proclaimed as reserves or wilderness areas in the States, I seek an assurance from the Minister that this is not the intention of the Australian Government. Secondly, it is clear that the Government has vested power in itself under the provisions of this Bill to proclaim any land in the States vested in the Commonwealth either as a national park, reseve or wilderness area, and place it under the control of the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. While I do not in" any way argue against the Australian Govenment exercising its powers in this regard in the interests of conservation, the Opposition is concerned that such actions could be taken without consultations with the States concerned. Moreover, I believe that if the Australian Government acquired and proclaimed any areas under its control in the States in the interests of nature and wildlife consevation. the management should be vested in the State wildlife services if the States express a wish to have it so. On the other hand, if a State felt that the Director of the Australian Government's National Parks and Wildlife Service was better equipped, the Australian service should be able to undertake the management. Any other policy would lead to massive duplication of effort and ultimatley friction between the Australian service and the State services. Such confrontation should be avoided at all costs. It is not in the interests of conservation, of efficient usage of resources or cooperation. We want co-operation with the States, not confrontation. 
The third area of contention is the mining section provided for in clause 10 of the Bill. Let us look at the best feature first. This clause is involved with the plan of management principle and the prohibition of mining in wilderness areas. I think they are excellent provisions. However, one wonders why clause 10 (2) is worded the way it is if private enterprise can mine in a park or reserve, provided such activity accords with a plan of management. I personally have some reservations about mining in national parks but I accept the view that came out of a report from the Advisory Committee to the Minister for National Resources on the revision of the Mining Act in Ontario- a view, I am sure, adhered to by the Minister and a great number of conservationists, that if mining in national parks is to be prevented the chances of getting national parks will be very remote indeed. 
In spite of verbal assurances, it is doubtful whether clause 10 allows mining by the private sector. One also wonders why the Minister for Minerals and Energy is empowered to give approval. In any event why should not the GovernorGeneral make such an important decision instead of just the Minister for Minerals and Energy? Why should not the whole Cabinet do so? As clause 10 stands it appears that, if an exploration company found a viable mineral deposit within a park, it would then require the approval of the Director, the 2 Ministers and both Houses of Parliament before the company could begin development. Of course, it would have to meet all the stringent provisions of the plans of management before it could begin to operate. Indeed it should. 
Fourthly clauses 11(2) and 11(10), as they were worded, were the cause of some concern because of the apparent lack of consultation with existing land owners, home owners etcetera who would be within the vicinity of an area to be proclaimed as a park or within the park itself. I am pleased to say that the Minister has taken measures, in the amendment circulated, to ensure that adequate public notice is given to all persons with an interest or involved in the area before a proclamation is made. I think that is terribly important. The fifth area of concern is clause 19, where it is clear that the Minister believes that his head of power under the external affairs provisions of the Constitution, as a result of having signed international agreements, is such that he has the power over all wildlife in Australia. Not only will the Director, subject to the Minister's approval, have powers to manage parks and reserves in Commonwealth Territories but he will be empowered to control wildlife throughout Australia not necessarily on reserves, and will formulate and control culling and commercial harvesting of wildlife, again not necessarily on reserves. God forbid that such powers should be concentrated in Canberrra. This provision would create hostility, confusion and, in my view, very poor administration unless there is consultation and co-operation with the States. On behalf of the Opposition I will move to amend clause 19 to ensure that there is Commonwealth and State co-operation in such a program and to ensure that the States are not rendered powerless in this area. I could not imagine that a centralised service situated in Canberra could administer regulations relating to wildlife control in Western Australia any better than, or indeed as well as, a similar service situated in Perth. I hope the Minister will give very serious consideration to accepting the amendment. 
The sixth area of concern is in the clause dealing with powers of wardens and rangers. I am pleased to say that the Minister agreed to modify some clauses after some discussions I had with him. The Opposition is concerned also about clause 65, the averment provision. My colleague, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  will be moving an amendment in regard to this matter. The other areas of deep concern rest in the regulation making powers and we will move to amend the clause in accordance with normal provisions and prudence. As I said earlier, the clause dealing with the Northern Territory is one of great concern and one to which I hope the Minister will give due consideration. 
The Opposition supports the initiatives which the Government is taking with regard to the management of nature conservation resources in areas under its direct control. It is concerned, however, that this be done with the full cooperation of the people of the Northern Territory, its authorities, and also with the authorities and the people of the States. We particularly approve the suggestion made by the Board in its submission to the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate. I mentioned that earlier. I believe also that the Commonwealth should set out in this Bill, indeed in all the other Bills relating to the care and the preservation of the environment, to seek the closest co-operation with all the governments and statutory authorities. Unless this is done, I do not think we will promote the sort of attitude in the public that will be necessary to achieve the targets that the Minister, the Government and others are seeking. The Opposition supports the State Grants (Nature Conservation) Bill without reservation. It moves an amendment to the motion for the second reading in regard to the Northern Territory and will also be moving amendments in accordance with the views that I have expressed in the course of my second reading speech. 
-The Opposition supports this amendment which alters the definition of 'area' by deleting the words 'as a national park or public park' and substituting therefor the words ' for the purposes of a national park, nature reserve or wildlife sanctuary or for similar purposes'. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I seek clarification. The Opposition supports the amendment moved by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  but wishes to move an additional amendment. 
-The Opposition supports these amendments. In supporting them we thank the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  for taking into account the wishes of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aboriginal Affairs which brought this matter to the attention of the Minister. The first amendment will broaden the definition of 'Aboriginal'. Also I think that the Minister has taken a sound step in spelling out the definition of 'wildlife' to include migratory animals that periodically or occasionally visit Australia. The third amendment covers matters that I have been discussing with the Minister in an effort to ensure that all people concerned are adequately consulted in regard to the proclamation of a national park, reserve or wilderness area. This could involve people such as land owners, home owners and land users who may live either within the area or in the vicinity of the area. We feel that this amendment gives greater justice to those people who may be concerned in the event of a public notice being issued to let the public at large understand what is in mind. As the Bill stood, I felt that insufficient consideration had been given to that aspect but now, as suggested in this amendment, the director will be required to publicly announce his intention to report on an area as well as to receive and consider appropriate reports. I think that comes later. I fully support the amendment and thank the Minister for taking those views into account. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 4 and 5- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Object of this Part) 
I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following sub-clause: '(2) Land shall not be acquired by Australia for the purposes of this Part if it is land that is dedicated or reserved under a law of a State, without consent of (he State, for purposes related to nature conservation or the protection of areas of historical, archaeological or geological importance or of areas having special significance in relation to Aboriginals.'. 
The Opposition feels that this amendment is necessary to allay the concern of the States, some of which feel that as the Bill now stands it is possible for the Australian Government, under the Lands Acquisition Act, to acquire existing areas as defined in that amendment. The Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  has assured me that that is not the intention unless the State itself requires the Australian Government to, or suggests that the Australian Government may, take over those areas if it feels that the Australian Government may have more resources or is more adequately able to cope with the preservation of such areas as historical, archaeological or geologically important areas, or areas that may have a special significance to Aboriginals. 
I have had discussions with various State Ministers and, on behalf of the Opposition, I gave an undertaking that we would move this amendment to ensure that the Minister's and the Government's intention was inscribed in this legislation. It is not moved in any sense to frustrate the Minister in his objectives. It is moved to try to ensure that there is no occasion for the States to have the fears that apparently they have at the moment. It has been suggested that perhaps the right Act to amend is the Lands Acquisition Act but we are not dealing with that Act and, of course, to amend it would require other legislation. Whilst this clause does not specifically mention the Lands Acquisition Act it does, in fact, affect it. If this sub-clause is agreed to it will provide the assurance necessary to gain the sort of trust and co-operation for which the Minister will be looking in trying to achieve the preservation of wildlife and the conservation of our fauna and flora generally and of areas that are of special significance or importance to people in the States, particularly to Aborigines. I ask the Government to consider, between now and when the Bill goes to the Senate, the wisdom of accepting this sub-clause which is moved in good faith to allay the fears to which I have referred. 
-The Opposition feels that to make this legislation completely clear with respect to the rights of miners, mining companies or exploration companies that may have rights, licences or permits within an area of the Australian coastal seas that may be considered for proclamation purposes, an amendment is necessary to this clause. Accordingly I move: 
After sub-clause 6, insert the following sub-clause: '(6a) Any proclamation shall be subject to any rights, licences and permits acquired under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-1973.' 
It has been said that this matter is covered in paragraph (b) of sub-clause (1) of clause 7 which reads:  an area of the Australian coastal sea in respect of the seabed and subsoil beneath which no right, title or interest is vested in a person other than Australia:  1 have had conflicting legal views- such as one is likely to get- regarding the totality of the meaning of that paragraph. It is felt that to make the legislation perfectly clear with respect to rights, licences and permits that may have been acquired under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-73 in an area that could be an area to be preserved or proclaimed by the Governor-General for the purposes of establishing a marine national park, an amendment is necessary. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2) omit 'Minister of State for Minerals and Energy, by or on behalf of or in co-operation with Australia or an authority of Australia and', substitute 'GovernorGeneral'. 
The reason that we of the Opposition have moved to have this change made to clause 10 is that we wonder why the Minister for Minerals and Energy should be given this special power to approve mining within a park area. We know that he has a general power in regard to mining. But in the case of Kakadu National Park, for instance, which of course looms very large in our minds and I am sure in the minds of the Government supporters in regard to this legislation, a decision has to be taken ultimately as to what mining will take place in the Park and by whom. A decision has to be made as to who in fact will be responsible for the granting of the authority for mining to be undertaken. 
The question arises as to whether the mining shall be done by those private enterprise companies which are already there or whether it will be taken over by the proposed Petroleum and Minerals Authority. I do not think for a moment that the legislation should be used to invoke the powers of either the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  or the proposed Petroleum and Minerals Authority which is currently under challenge before the High Court. Rather than try to tie down clause 10 and leg-rope it to the Minister for Minerals and Energy and secondly to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority I feel that this amendment should be made. Of course, our amendment would require just not the approval of the Minister as such but the approval of Cabinet as the 'Governor-General' means Cabinet. It would require the approval of 27 Ministers rather than the approval of 2 Ministers- in the first instance the Minister for the Environment and Conservation and certainly, as prescribed in the clause, the Minister of State for Minerals and Energy. If approval or authority is to be given for mining to be undertaken on Kakadu National Park or in any other area that is reserved or proclaimed for the purposes of wildlife and nature conservation I believe that this should be done by the corporate body of the executive of the Government itself rather than that power being vested in the hands of a sole Minister who, being a Minister for Minerals and Energy could, of course, have a degree- and I do not say this would be the case with the present Minister for Minerals and Energy but at some future date a Minister for Minerals and Energy could be a mining fanatic - 
-No. But how long will he be there? The next Minister could say: 'To hell with the magpie, geese and to hell with fauna and flora; we want the coal, the gold, the uranium or whatever it might be '. So I think it is important to look at the legislation as something that will stand and determine the course of actions and policy in regard to national parks and wildlife conservation for a very long time. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (4), after 'reserve', insert 'controlling authorised scientific research'. 
This amendment arises from a suggestion from  Dr Geoff  Mosley of the Australian Conservation Foundation, who pointed out to the need for an amendment to sub-clause (4), which now reads: 
At a time when no plan  or  management is in force in relation to a park or reserve, sub-section  (3  ) does not prevent the Director from performing his functions in that park or reserve for the purpose of preserving or protecting the park or reserve, protecting or conserving wildlife in the park or reserve or protecting persons or property in the park or reserve. 
In accordance with the Foundation's suggestion that the words 'controlling authorised scientific research' be added we have moved the amendment so that the end of the sub-clause would read: . . . controlling authorised scientific research or protecting persons or properly in the park or reserve. 
As the Minister said to me in a private conservationI hope it was not too private- before the debate started, this is provided for in the next sub-clause, sub-clause (5). But what  Dr Mosley  was getting at was that there could be some time between the time a declaration is made or the reservation is made until a plan of management is actually approved. This delay could represent a considerable time. It would be quite unthinkable for a wilderness area to be set aside for any length of time and not to be available for scientific research.  Dr Mosley  felt that the power should be vested in the Director to enable scientific research to take place under his direction in accordance with his authority until such time as the plan of management is ultimately determined and approved by both Houses of Parliament. I think it is well worthy of the Government's consideration. I have thought a lot about this amendment and I feel that it is justified. I hope the Government agrees to it. 
-The Opposition supports the amendment. As I am a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, I feel that I should thank the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  for being so co-operative in this matter. He went to the trouble of meeting with us and sought to understand and to accept the position, particularly with respect to the Northern Territory. This BUI will have prime application in the Northern Territory where a number of areas will ultimately be taken over by the Director. I have no doubt that other areas will be proclaimed. It could well be that these will be cases where land will be vested in Aboriginals or in a body corporate. I feel that the way in which the Minister has rearranged this provision will enable what is proposed to be better understood and more appreciated by the Aboriginal people concerned. The Opposition wholeheartedly supports the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 19. 
1 ) The Director may formulate and implement, or take part in formulating and implementing, programs designed to manage and regulate the culling and commercial harvesting of wildlife in accordance with generally accepted principles of conservation. 
A program formulated under sub-section ( 1 ) shall he based upon, among other matters- 
an examination of the habitat of the wildlife to which the program relates; 
an evaluation of the extent to which parks and reserves (including parks and reserves established under a law of a State or Territory) assist in the conservation of the wildlife to which the program relates: and 
an assessment and analysis of the population of the wildlife to which the program relates. and shall provide for the review, at appropriate intervals, of the matters referred to in paragraphs (a ), (b) and (c). 
A program shall not be implemented by the Director under this section until it has been approved by the Minister. 
I move: 
Omit paragraph (2) (c). 
It is felt that this paragraph provides too broad a power base for any Government to enact law by regulation rather than by a Bill for an Act. It covers a very broad area of legislative responsibility, an area to which the Australian Parliament should be directing its attention. I suppose it could be said that increasingly this Parliament is becoming involved with local and regional issues and responsibilities that have hitherto been the responsibility of the States. Yet we are moving to a position because of the pressure of legislation where we are trying to broaden the regulation making provisions within Bills. I think that this circumvents the proper responsibility of the Parliament. Therefore the Opposition feels that paragraph (2) (c) should be omitted. 
-The Opposition supports the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Bill 1974. We have some reservations with respect to some of the provisions and to some of the powers which are provided to the commissioners. I foreshadow that some action may be taken in the Senate to limit the powers of the commissioners. The Bill will have farreaching effects on the environment. In 1971 the former Liberal-Country Party Government formed the first Ministry with environment as one of its specific responsibilities. Full credit must go to the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe,  Mr McMahon,  for the first initiative in recognising the environment as a dimension that should be taken into consideration when coming to a decision on any proposal of a structural nature or otherwise which might affect the environment. 
The former Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, the honourable Peter Howson, established the Australian Environment Council which is a council of State and Commonwealth Ministers. I believe that it has a tremendous role to play in trying to bring about the sort of co-operation which is necessary to achieve a total involvement in the consideration of problems and matters which affect the environment. On 24 May 1972 the first ministerial statement on Commonwealth policy was tabled in this House. That stands in the records in the name of the honourable Peter Howson. In that statement it was announced that the Government had decided to introduce a system of environmental impact statements designed to protect the environment. Quite frankly, from memory, that was the first time that 1 heard the term environmental impact statement used. This is not to say that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  who is sitting at the table, and other more enlightened people had not come into contact with the phrase prior to that time. This week such terms have been dignified by inclusion in a Bill- that is the Bill which we are debating- which has been introduced by the Minister at the table. 
Apart from being notable for the introduction of this legislation the month of November 1974 must be remembered and be regarded as an appropriate time to contemplate the present and future status of environmental impact statements in this country. The nation's first few environmental impact statements have been released so that we can decide, with a reasonable amount of confidence, whether they are worth the time and expense which is involved in their preparation and, more importantly, whether they will be an adequate vehicle for bringing environmental considerations into the processes of government decision making. The Bill we are debating gives the Minister power to ensure that any project of any organisation or agency or, indeed, the Commonwealth Government or any project involving Commonwealth funds within the States which is likely to have a significant effect on the environment should be accompanied by an environmental impact statement. 
In cases of particular significance an inquiry will be conducted by a commissioner or commissioners appointed by the Minister but not subject to directions by the Minister. That is an important point to note. The inquiries are to be held in public except in exceptional circumstances. So we will see the public making a contribution towards decision making with respect to projects of a significant nature. The Opposition generally approves the provisions of the Bill although it recognises that the Minister will not have an easy task. We have heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  talk about Nervous Nellies. I sense that the Minister for the Envoronment and Conservation could well be an Aunt Sally on many occasions. It will take a lot of courage from the Minister to try to exercise the sort of influence which will be necessary to satisfy the public on the one hand and environmental action groups on the other. Members of these groups are rather purposeful people who want to get their projects agreed to at any price. 
No, he is not nervous. I do not think he is even an Aunt Sally. I think he has the stamina, the capacity and the sincerity to be able to hold the fort on the occasions when it will be necessary. I certainly do not envy him the battles which lie ahead. There are so many people in the community, whether in the Public Service or private industry, who want to achieve their objectivesI do not say that they are petty objectivesregardless of the consequences. 
Not necessarily to make a profit. The honourable member came in quickly there. He assumes that everybody in the private sector is just interested in profit. There are people in the public  sector  who are interested in prestige. I suggest that we look at the Black Mountain tower. That is a case in point. 
One can see it going up. I can never get the idea out of my system that the people who wanted the Black Mountain tower were those who wanted to build a monument to the organisation with which they were associated. We will live to regret the day that that decision was taken. It was actually taken in our time. The decision was upheld in the early days of this Government. (Quorum formed) 
Having touched on these matters as an introduction to a debate on this issue, I think I should say that a number of State governments are concerned that the provisions in the Bill could tend to take away some of their decision making responsibilities and tend to superimpose the will of the Australian Government upon the activities of the State governments. I think in fairness that I should read a message that I have received from the Premier of Queensland, who indicates that he is not completely opposed to the legislation. His message reads: 
If clause 5 of the Environment Protection (Impact Proposals) Bill covers works included in programs approved by the Loan Council, it is considered inordinant delays will result. If loan works were to be made the subject of environmental impact studies the consequent delays would mean without doubt that it would be impossible for approved allocations to be expended in the same year. The only approach that could produce some satisfaction would be the separate planning and construction years. This would mean that preplanning, environmental impact studies and design work would have to be carried out at least a year in advance. While eventually momentum could possibly be regained there would certainly be a long period of inactivity before such a position came about. The legal position as to whether the Act could be applied to loan works is not clear. 
Where Commonwealth funds have been directed to local authorities for particular works and if such works involve rezoning in town plans actions before the local government court could be prejudiced by open commissions of inquiry appointed by the Commonwealth Minister prior to the sitting of the local government court. A similar situation could arise in regard to land court hearings. 
I have read that message into Hansard because I think that the Government needs to take into consideration whether the environmental impact proposals will cover the applications from the States for funds from the Australian Loan Council. If if does, I see great technical difficulties and a slowdown in some of the important public works that are necessary. I ask the Minister to check whether in fact that provision is catered for in the legislation. I have also received a message from the Minister for Conservation in Victoria, the honourable W. A. Borthwick. I think his comments should be brought to the light of day. The message reads: 
Re Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Bill 1974. Section 5(c) when read with section 11 and the general tone of the Bill is of concern to this State. 
The essential elements in dispute are - 
whether the Commonwealth has either the constitutional right or the heed to be concerned about the environmental effects of projects financed from borrowings by the States or its instrumentalities as the result of an agreement on total borrowings at the Loan Council meeting. 
whether or not this legislation would lead to a duplication by the Commonwealth Government of the environment assessment procedures and activities of the appropriate State organisations, and 
the sheer impracticability of the proposed procedures with regard to many kinds of work carried out by State and local government authorities. 
There is no doubt that the Commonwealth has the constitutional right to insist on environmental satisfaction with respect to works- 
financed by Commonwealth funds 
financed jointly by Commonwealth and State funds 
where it may be asked to issue export licences for the products resulting from any particular works projects or other activities. 
However it is my opinion that works carried out with Loan Council funds are legally of no concern to the Commonwealth Government and in many instances they arc used to finance works proposed and approved at relatively short notice to meet particular local situations. 
The whole tone of this legislation is one of apparent desire for dominance by the Commonwealth Government in an area where the majority of the problems are those which must be faced by States and local governments and for which the States have at least as good if not better expertise for the consideration of environmental problems involved. 
The legislation seems to be saying that the States have not looked after environmental matters and they must be subject to some oversight on the grounds that some of the matters which may arise will have national as opposed to local, regional or State significance. 
It is precisely to overcome such an attitude that the standing committee of the Australian Environment Council established a working party to put forward the principles which should be observed in the assessment of the environmental effects of projects and these principles were agreed to by the Council at its last meeting late in 1973. If the States observe these principles, it should be perfectly satisfactory for the 
Commonwealth Government to accept advice that any project has been subject to an environmental assessment of its effects in accordance with this agreed set of principles and of the outcome. There should be no argument from the Commonwealth Government in this approach  becuase  even if State Governments did not exist and the Commonwealth had the whole task itself, it would still need to decentralize its operations to similar responsible groups in States or regions. 
There appears to be no disagreement between the States and the Commonwealth that projects of various kinds need to be assessed so that the decision makers are aware of the environmental effects when making decisions. There seems to be no disagreement with regard to the procedures and principles for making an assessment of environmental effects of any particular project. There may be differences in the relative importance and degree of emphasis which should be placed on some pans of those procedures, e.g. public hearings. There seems to be no disagreement that the Commonwealth Government is justified in seeking environmental satisfaction with regard to all projects for which it has some constitutional right to seek that satisfaction. 
Yes, I am. He goes on: 
The disagreement arises with regard to whether the Commonwealth should be involved to the extent to which it has been suggested in this legislation on each occasion, whether or not the Commonwealth is prepared to rely on the capability and expertise residing in the States for making such assessments provided certain principles and procedures are observed and whether or not the procedures suggested in the proposed procedures are in fact reasonably practical, or merely represent some bureaucratic 'Big Brother' desire for the Commonwealth to participate more intimately in matters which are essentially a function of the State. 
-I understand that  Mr Borthwick  is highly regarded by a great number of people. I think that the Australian Conservation Foundation has been working closely with the Victorian Government and the Victorian Minister for Conservation. Perhaps the Victorian and the New South Wales Governments have moved as far as, if not further than, most governments in the whole of the Commonwealth to try to ensure that the procedures that are adopted with respect to environmental assessments are in fact sound, and more than just window dressing. So I think that is rather important to note one specific thing that  Mr Borthwick  mentions in that message. That is, that the Australian Environment Council should meet as soon as possible after this legislation becomes law to ensure that there is a general acceptance of broad guidelines so that much of the necessary work is done at the regional or State level. I do not for a moment suggest that the same principles, guidelines or details can be applied in each State or region, but the States themselves have the capacity, and I am sure must have the will, to try to come to some common agreement to work within the broad framework of the Bill that is before the House. The Australian Environment Council is the essential vehicle for such agreement. 
As I have said, the purpose of the Bill was stated by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation in his second reading speech to be the introduction of the environmental impact study technique into the Government's decisionmaking processes. The Opposition does not oppose that concept. As I said earlier, in 1972 the former Liberal-Country-Party Government legislated for the introduction of the EIS procedure. Furthermore, as the Mnister stated, there has been basic agreement by State Ministers sitting on the Australian Environmental Council on what statements should cover. However, in the present legislation before the House many questions have been left unanswered. Anyone told that such and such a technique is the best way to handle a certain problem is entitled to ask for a desription of that technique That is what this Bill just does not do as far as the EIS technique is concerned. Perhaps there is good reason why it should not. Perhaps as time goes by regulations arising as a result of experience will make it far easier for the Government to achieve these sorts of details with respect to techniques. Its success or failure could well depend on the procedures adopted. These apparently have not yet been decided, and I hope they will not be finally decided upon until there has been a general discussion with the States. 
The Minister stated: 
The detailed requirements for impact statements and hearings will be set out in the procedures to be established under clause 6 of the Bill. 
Clause 6 merely states that the GovernorGeneral may, from time to time, by order, approve or disapprove variations of administrative procedures for the purpose of achieving the object of this Act. The actual form that these procedures take may well decide the success or failure of the whole proposal. For example, it would appear that the Minister has given a great deal of power in calling for or refusing an environmental impact statement. What are to be the opportunities, if any, for redress for the public or other interested parties? What is to be the element of Public participation? Public participation will not be possible if the Minister decides not to hold a public inquiry. Naturally, the Government will not be willing to undertake a full study of every proposed work because of the expense, the manpower and the total resources involved, but there should at least be an opportunity to appeal against the Minister's decision. 
Again on the question of public participation, if the EIS technique is to succeed it will have to involve real participation from the public, not just allowing the public to blow off steam. I suggest the adoption of a procedure similar to that adopted under the Electoral Act when redistribution proposals are made, or as laid down in Victoria under the Land Conservation Act. This Act calls firstly for a study report, then public comment on that. The next stage calls for the drafting of recommendations, and again public comment is sought on those. All of this precedes the tabling of the final report and the public's comments and submissions received. 
The Bill before the House seeks to involve governments, both State and Federal, in a very sensitive political area- an area in which nongovernmental organisations, private individuals and public opinion have been the pacesetters. The Bill will succeed only if due acknowledgment is made of this fact and if the procedures adopted give adequate, legal and automatic rights of public participation. That is why I say that the administration procedures adopted are all-important and why they should be embodied in or at least accompany the Bill. I fear that the Bill in its present form will leave the Minister on the receiving end of constant attacks from his colleagues, the State Governments and public opinion. That is why I said at the outset that he could well become the Aunt Sally in the whole exercise. 
Needless to say, as I said the other day at the Academy of Science when the Minister was present, the Public Service has a very real role to play. I am told that there is a great divergence of opinion concerning its role. Some people, I am told, would like to see its members as rubber stamps- this is in relation to the whole environment impact assessment exercise- which can absorb the energies of the concerned public. Others see them as advocates to Cabinet or as environmental policemen. A member of the Public Service" informs me that the greater part of the energies of government environment bodies up to now have not been directed against pollution or even in warding off public protests, but have been expended in interdepartmental rivalry and pitched battles which are usually lost. From my short experience as a Minister of the Government I know that that is certainly possible. The Minister has taken a very courageous step and great credit must go to him for having been able to bring to the House a piece of legislation which is inherently controversial because undoubtedly it will have its vocal and silent opposition. 
In Cabinet and outside it. The New South Wales Government undoubtedly is very concerned that the Bill could well intrude into its own areas of responsibility. I have received messages from the New South Wales Minister who was very concerned about clause 5 (c) of the Bill. I am sure that the Federal Minister is in a position to allay the fears of all the State Ministers and the State governments through the Environment Council by indicating to them that the purpose of this Bill is not necessarily to intrude into their decision making processes but to ensure that in all decisions that are taken, where Commonwealth funds are expended, the dimension of the environment is taken into account according to procedures that are generally agreed to between the Australian Government and the State governments. If the Minister can achieve that degree of confidence and co-operation from the State governments, his battle will be more than half won. Once having done that, I am sure that we will be able to develop a degree of respect and confidence amongst the community at large for the importance of taking environmental factors into account before taking decisions on a whole range of projects. 
I am just about to resume my seat and then you can go to sleep again. Why do you not get yourself a couch and stretch right out, you lazy old fat cat? 
-I will not detain the House very long in speaking to this Bill because I know there is a tight timetable. I want to say briefly that the legislation owes its origin to an initiative taken, I think in 1971, by the Australian Agricultural Council when it received a report from the Standing Committee on Soil Conservation. It provided a factual basis for the 
States requesting financial assistance for soil conservation programs. As a consequent of that event, an interdepartmental committee was established in 1972. The interdepartmental committee reported in July this year. Discussions have been taking place with representatives of the State governments, the State authorities for soil conservation and the Commonwealth body. The interdepartmental committee agreed that soil conservation activities should be considerably increased, certainly well above the existing levels throughout Australia, and that it would be appropriate for the Australian Government to bear most of the financial responsibility. I have been informed that it was estimated a couple of years ago that about $350m would be spent during say a 5-year period to try to overcome the problem of the backlog that exists. 
The Opposition welcomes the decision of the Government to assist the States in a long term program that could cost well in excess of the figure that was estimated a couple of years ago. I think the Minister was thinking that it could rise to over $500m. As I said in my speech on the motion for the second reading of the States Grants (Water Resources Measurement) Bill there is a need for a national co-operative effort. I will not quote from that speech because of the shortage of time. This Bill is termed by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  as an interim program of financial assistance to the States. A pre-condition to the provision of funds for the States will be an agreement by them to participate in the program. So far, New South Wales is the only State that has not agreed to participate in the program. I well understand the position of the New South Wales Government which has currently an ongoing program. It spent in 1972-73, $6. 175m; in 1973-74, $6.8m. In 1974-75 it is planning to spend about $7. 4m; in the next financial year it expects to spend a further $8.5m; and it is planning to spend $9.3m in 1976-77. The New South Wales Government asks: Why should it seek the Minister's approval for its total $7m or $8m program when the Australian Government, under the schedule of this Bill, will contribute only $ 1 10,000 in this financial year? 
The New South Wales soil conservation service is a well developed sophisticated organisation. It is probably one of the best in Australia. Needless to say, the capacity and expertise that is available to the New South Wales Government is not likely to be available at the present time to the Commonwealth Government. There is a great problem of duplication and one that must be avoided. The States will not give up easily their constitutional responsibilities for soil control. But in order to make the impact necessary on the problem of soil conservation and restoration, the States will require more financial assistance than is available to them at the present time. The States will require financial assistance and they will, therefore, require Commonwealth aid. On the other hand, there will be a need for consultation between the States themselves and the Commonwealth. There will be a need for cooperation between these governments ultimately to achieve co-ordination. 
I see this Bill as an interim measure and I hope it does ultimately lead to a total program with all States being involved. It will do this, of course, and the Australian Government will achieve a national objective if it is able to resolve the feeling that appears to exist in the mind of the Government of New South Wales that this is an attempt to take over in a doctrinaire fashion the responsibility for soil conservation. As I said in my speech on the motion for the second reading of the State Grants (Water Resources Measurement) Bill, if we approach the task in some doctrinaire, socialist way, trying to take over the control of the tenure of land from a State the whole program would be fraught with ultimate disaster. I hope that that does not eventuate. 
I have had discussions with the Minister on this matter who I must say again has been prepared to see the arguments that have been put to him. I am sure that if he maintains that sort of an approach he will be able to resolve some of the outstanding difficulties that exist with at least one State in the Commonwealth. I hope that that degree of understanding and co-operation will be ultimately achieved. I do not know whether the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is sunburned or whether he is getting worried about the time of the day. We are trying to get through this legislation. The Opposition will be moving amendments at the Committee stages. I understand that the Government is prepared to accept those amendments. We will, therefore, support the measure and wish it a speedy passage through this House and the other place. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.19)-As a member who comes from an area that has suffered severe financial and physical disadvantages caused by the lack of concern of previous national and State governments for soil conservation, I know that I will have the endorsement of all sections of my electorate when I say that 1 support the States Grants (Soil Conservation) Bill 1974. This Bill is concerned with the provision to the States of financial assistance for 1974-75 and 1975-76 for what the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who has just resumed his seat, termed an interim program of financial assistance for soil conservation. As a result of what has happened in my electorateindeed, in my home town- I feel sure that it is necessary for the national Government to take over the lead in projects and measures to protect our national resources for the well-being of the present generation and of future generations. 
The Bill before the House, in my opinion, gives tangible expression to the importance that the Government places upon the preservation of our natural resources and shows a willingness to give the lead that is necessary. In his second reading speech, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  informed the House that the first significant Federal attention that was drawn to this problem was in February 1971 when the Australian Agricultural Council received a report from the Standing Committee on Soil Conservation. That report was titled: 'The Study of  Community  Benefits of and Finance for Soil Conservation'. From early 1971 to late 1974 seems to be a fair lapse of time and no doubt the Opposition will infer that the Government should have acted before this time, but by reading only the foreword to the report we find that the committee was set up in 1946. In my opinion, this demonstrates a great deal of procrastination by the Liberal Party and the Country Party in showing concern for our national resources and is a bit inconsistent with the argument that they have been putting forward recently in respect of the environment. 
I do not think that anyone in this House was surprised to learn, when the Minister for the Environment and Conservation stated that the precondition for the provision of this financial assistance was an agreement by the States to participate in this investigation, that, at this stage, New South Wales has not reached this agreement. If members of the Opposition were consistent in what they claim the Government should be doing in regard to increasing food production at this time of, as they have pointed out on several occasions, a world food shortage, one would expect that they would be loud in their condemnation of the delay by New South Wales. 
When we think of soil conservation, we naturally think of soil fertility, soil erosion and soil erosion control. This brings us to the most important part of this report. The Standing Committee on Soil Conservation forecasts in its report that at the present rate of progress for 1971 it would take 100 years to achieve soil conservation. I do not want to read what the report says because, in common with the honourable member for Gwydir, who preceded me in this debate, the time available to me is restricted. The report sets out measures to solve this problem in 30 years. If I had the time, I could refer honourable members to the revelant pages. Another cause for concern raised by the report is that those measures to reduce the time required to achieve soil conservation from 100 years to 30 years would cost, at 1970 values an estimated annual amount of $12m. I point out that this does not mean that the land cannot be used for other purposes. It can be used for production at the same time because conservation means more than mere preservation. 
I think we can say that rational utilisation of resources should play an important part in any scheme of land conservation. The Standing Committee's definition of soil conservation is: 
Application to land, cultural, vegetational, structural  and  management measures, either singly or in combination, needed to develop a system of use and management which would enable the desired level of productivity to be attained without damage or loss of soil fertility on this or other land.s. 
I believe that our major responsibility in soil conservation is to ensure that both public and private landholders do not adopt systems of land use which would secure benefits for themselves but which, at the same time, would cause other users and the community greater expense. 
I have been asked, as was the previous speaker, to assist inexpediting the consideration of the Bill by curtailing my speech. The town from which I come represents the best example of soil conservation practices that anyone will find anywhere. I speak of the work of the mining companies at Broken Hill. In my young days, there were skip dumps all around the town. The skips were blown all over the common and the vegetation was ruined. A gentleman called Albert Morris undertook regeneration right around the town. He established a regeneration area which was half a mile wide. The soil and the vegetation now in that town are, I would say, the best that anyone will find anywhere in Australia. I commend the Government for its actions. I hope that we can really push forward and see some worthwhile action undertaken in the area of soil conservation. 
-The Opposition wishes to move an amendment to clause 4 on page 2, line 2 of the Bill by omitting the word approval' and substituting the word 'consideration'. I shall move this amendment on behalf of the Opposition for the reasons which were stated by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr 
Kelly) who regrettably was interrupted by a premature motion that the question be put. I am sorry that this happened, because I thought that the contribution he was making to the debate was a very good one and one that needs to be taken into account. I know that the Minister was interested in what the honourable member had to say. I would like the honourable member to finish what he had to say in support of this amendment, because as the Bill stood it was an indictment of the States. The States have to submit a total program to the Minister for approval, when in fact many of the States- I speak for New South Wales- have a sophisticated, wellestablished soil conservation service. 
In New South Wales $8m is being appropriated in the next financial year for soil conservation, whereas under the Schedule of this Bill $ 1 10,000 is being appropriated. We know that it is an interim measure and that bigger things are to come. But to force the State of New South Wales to submit its total program to the Australian Government or the Minister for approval, I think, is a provocative approach and one that would not get the sort of co-operation that would be necessary to carry through the total objective. For that reason I wish to move 2 amendments to clause 4, which states in part: 
1 ) For the purposes of this Act, a State may, before or during a period to which this Act applies, submit to the Minister for approval a program of works to be carried out and other things to be done by the State in connexion with soil conservation during that period. 
Where a State submits a program to the Minister under sub-section ( 1 ) the Minister may- 
approve the program: or 
modify the program by omitting such parts of the program as he thinks fit and approve the program as so modified. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)-Is  the honourable member moving 2 amendments? 
Yes, together. It will save time. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted for 2 amendments to be moved together? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (I), omit 'approval', substitute 'consideration'. 
Omit sub-clause (3), substitute the following sub-clause: '(3) Where a State submits a program to the Minister under sub-section ( I ) the Minister may- 
approve the program; or 
after consultation with a State, modify the program by omitting pans of the program and approve the program as so modified. '. 
The essential difference between the amendment we move and what is standing in the legislation is that the amendment will make it necessary for the Minister to consult and confer with the States before modifying a program. I personally feel that the Minister and the Government have in their minds to do just what is stated in the amendment, but I think that it is essential to write it into the legislation so that Ministers in the future and the Government in the future will be bound to confer and consult with the States and to complete the program. As I said earlier in my speech on the second reading, it will be absolutely essential in any national program for the States to have the carriage of the administration of the program. Trying to do it from Canberra would result in a waste of resources and we would not achieve the objective with what is, as the honourable member for Wakefield said, a totally grass-roots problem. The problem goes right back to the grass-roots within States, regions and districts. To try to administer a massive program from Canberra or through a central authority would be fraught with disaster. I hope that that is not the intention of the Government. I thank the Minister for showing his willingness to take in good faith the points we have raised and for agreeing to the amendments. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the level of infant mortality among Aborigines in the Northern Territory during 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973. 
Is the current level of infant mortality causing the Government concern. 
What actions are being taken to reduce the level of infant mortality among Aborigines. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Government now proceed to service the 6 1 applications from Aborigines for exploration licences over areas of Northern Territory reserves. 
As applications were suspended pending recommendations of the Woodward Royal Commission into Land Rights for Aborigines, when will a final decision be made in regard to Aboriginal applications for exploration licences. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) With references to the publication entitled "The Packaging Plague" recently published and widely circulated by the Australian Conservation Foundation, are the figures quoted therein in agreement with those held by his Department, and does his Depanment support the conclusions of the publication. 
If the Depanment has not studied these figures to ascertain their accuracy, will he ensure that it does so. 
Whether the publication is found to be accurate or inaccurate, will he make the findings known publicly; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Have there been adequate and completely satisfactory discussions between officers of his Depanment and the Department of the Environment and Conservation regarding the administration of national parks and wildlife conservation in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Will all the national parks, reserves and wildlife sanctuaries in the Northern Territory be under the administrative responsibility of the proposed Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Will he confer with the officers of the Parliament to ensure that an adequate recycling process is installed in the Parliament to prevent the enormous wastage of paper and other goods that are recyclable. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Will he locate the headquarters of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service in the Northern Territory, where most of the Director's responsibilities will be found; if not, why not, and where will the headquarters be situated. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his Department entered into comprehensive discussions with the Department of the Capital Territory regarding the administrative responsibility for nature conservation and wildlife protection in the A.C.T. and Jervis Bay. 
If so, what administrative or co-ordinating arrangements have been agreed to by the two Departments. 
I must say that the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  has followed the usual pattern in a debate of this type by trying to scare the nation about the presence of multinationals and their activities in the Australian community. We know that multinationals have perhaps not developed the best reputations in the United States and some other countries, but I have not yet had proved to me that multinationals in this country have been engaged in underhand activities. If we have any such evidence, if we have any such proof, surely this, the national Parliament, is the place in which we should be receiving this information from the Government in power today. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  presented a number of very powerful and persuasive arguments against this Bill and he has left no doubt in our minds about just how far this Government is prepared to go in intruding into the freedom of people in this country. The honourable member for Phillip said that the Government wanted to clear out the slush funds and let in the light. The real fact of the matter is of course that the Australian Labor Party wants to know who supports what particular party. In other words, I see this as a Bill which gives some demonstration of the stickybeaking nature of the political party that now governs this country. It does not want to let in the light, it wants to let in the Labor Party. The Labor Government wants to be in the know so that it also might get on the bandwagon. 
The charge against the Opposition- against the Liberal and Country Parties- that it has received money from multinationals falls pretty shabbily to the ground when it is well known that prior to the last election in May an attempt was made- and I think a successful attempt- by Ministers, ministerial staffs and other Labor stalwarts to obtain money for the purposes of their election campaign. There is evidence to prove that, I understand. I believe that photostat copies of letters are available for those who doubt that this is so. So it is a pretty hypocritical situation when we hear these charges levelled against the Liberal and Country Parties for opposing a measure such as this simply on the contention that we are trying to deny the Government and the community generally information about what multinationals do or do not support particular parties in this country. It comes before us in the guise of a further attempt by the Minister to achieve electoral reform in Australia, but none of us should be deluded about the real purposes of this Bill. While I am the first to agree that the Electoral Act needs certain reform and amendment I see this Bill as being in violation of the spirit and of the principle of the secret ballot. I shall explain why. While a voter is free to cast a vote by secret ballot under this Bill he will not be free to support in an anonymous way the political party of his choosing or a candidate belonging to that political party because his financial contribution, if he wishes to support his vote in that way, will be available for public scrutiny. So it does break down that anonymous approach, that right to privacy that the individual is entitled to when he is casting a vote. 
Basically this Bill provides the machinery to force candidates and parties to disclose publicly their sources of funds and the Bill limits electoral expenditure by parties and candidates. One of the dangers of this provision is that a person may feel inhibited about contributing to a central fund of a party. I think that all political parties need to bear in mind the fact that one may wish to support an individual candidate and not necessarily the political party as such. Those of us who have had experience in political organisationsthere are a great number here- must concede that point. How many people have made donations to political parties, large and small, on the condition that it will not be made known public- because they wanted it to be kept a secret. Those people have a right, in my view, to make that decision so long as they do not try to impose upon the political party concerned a concession in return for the donation. It seems highly probable to me that the great bulk of funds that are contributed to political parties are spent certainly at the State and national campaign level, but a considerable amount of money is subscribed or sent to the local political organisations purely and simply to assist the candidate or the person who is favoured by the individual who is giving the donation. Often an individual may have voted Labor, Liberal or the Country Party at one time or another because an individual candidate has appealed to the person concerned. 
I will concede that it was not necessarily in that order. The honourable member has been a member of a political organisation for a long time and I think he would be the first to agree to the point I have made. In any event, how does this legislation prevent undisclosed contributions to either the political party or the candidate in kind? Needless to say, any limits on the size of individual campaign contributions or on total spending may create underground effects. There may be ways of getting around the laws- there are sure to be- and indeed the law may be ignored as it was in the United States until the introduction of the most recent legislation. I do not know what the situation is at the moment. In any event, how does one track down contributions in kind which have been made to political parties or to candidates. When I say 'in kind' I am referring to assistance such as free television advertising time, free radio station time and free newspaper advertisements. Newspapers may give advertising space or indeed ^disproportionate news space to a political party or candidate. It is extremely difficult to impute values against the multitude of all the contributions that may be made in kind. This fact of life makes a farce of this legislation unless of course the government intends to control or is capable of controlling the media to ensure that the media is restricted in respect of the amount of space which they may give to a political party or a candidate. But if that does happen that would be the first step towards the abolition of the freedom of the media and the freedom of the Press. 
Probably the strongest argument against the disclosure of all particulars of all gifts including donations made to political parties or candidates through or with the authority of the party agents or official agents is that it could lead to political retaliation against the donor. It could take the form of social ostracism, industrial activity or political discrimination by an opposing party if it gains power. This is always a probability. It is always possible because it has happened in the past. You cannot easily wipe out some of the more nasty features of human nature. 
The Opposition subscribes to the view that individuals have the right to express political points of view freely, and indeed I am sure the Government supports that view. An individual has the right to support any political party. In the Opposition's view he has the right to vote for a political party candidate by secret ballot and not declare his political sympathy publicly by having to disclose a donation that he gave to a party. The individual has the right to support a political party financially whether minimally of substantially, and to remain anonymous. Why should an individual have this freedom to be anonymous taken away from him? In today's political scene all major parties must have access to large sums of financial support. The trend has been set with the use of television, newspapers and radios. High costs are involved in getting people from point A to point B, from electorate to electorate and from state to state. This applies particularly in federal elections. If this Bill becomes law it will tend to reduce the level of financial support to political parties especially from those donors who would wish to remain anonymous. It would more seriously affect the Liberal and Country Parties than it would the Labor Party. Let us be frank about this. 
It is not because we spend more money. I would not say that. The Labor Party has a more constant and more reliable source of funds from the trade union movement in this country than have the Liberal Party or the Country Party. The Liberal Party and the Country Party do not have continuing access to a source of funds that the Labor Party has and that is a fact of life. But in New South Wales the Australian Country Party has a total membership of over 20 000 subscribing financial members. I do not think there is a political party in the State of New South Wales which has a higher number of subscribing paid up members than the Australian Country Party. This applies right throughout most of the States. I think we have something like 100 000 subscribing members throughout the Commonwealth and the Country Party has had to exist primarily on its source of funds coming from the payment of subscriptions to the Party organisation. The ALP, I think, has a relatively small membership, but most of its funds have been available to it from trade unions within which the membership pays dues and in many cases pays into special funds for special purposes. 
This Bill which provides for campaign funds disclosures will favour the incumbent government. This is another point that needs to be made. It will favour the govenment that is in power. It will favour the incumbent member of Parliament, whether he be on the government side or on the opposition side. Does the Minister really believe that this Bill will succeed in its stated objectives? Under this Bill no union, no association, no ad hoc group, no organisation can support a political party or a candidate publicly without the authority of the party agent. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  I think, clearly demonstrated the futility of the nonsense that is involved in clause 146 of the Bill which reads in part: 
A person . . . who incurs any electoral expenditure without the prior written authority of a registered party agent or of an official agent, is guilty of an offence punishable, on conviction- 
in the case of a person being a party or a body corporateby a line not exceeding $20,000; or 
in any other case- by a fine not exceeding $ 10,000. 
He talked about the little old lady who raffled a dozen fresh farm eggs. I think that that was a rather damning example of what the Bill can achieve. 
The honourable member's union or my union, if it chooses to support the political party of its choice- without obtaining the written authority of the agent of the party concerned- by way of advertisement, by way of public advertisement, by way of spending money on television is liable to a penalty of $20,000. 
Let the next  speaker  read it to us. The honourable member is talking about definitions. Let him give me the interpretation of this one. The Bill says:  electoral expenditure' means expenditure for or in connexion with promoting or opposing, directly or indirectly, a party or the election of a candidate or candidates or of influencing, directly or indirectly, the voting at an election, but does not include- 
* * * * 
reasonable personal living and travelling expenses of a candidate; 
What does 'reasonable' mean? Who determines it? 
It is incredible. We are talking about the definition. 
-I do not mind reading it out. We are talking about definitions. One cannot define that. The Minister may be able to and I may be able to, but the interpretation is the important issue. I do not care whether it is in the Act or not. It probably is a stupid word. I think it is high time that we started to define things in legislation. I did not write that 50 years ago. I do not take any real blame for the word 'reasonable'. Let us not get away from the point about which honourable members opposite are sensitive, and that is that where an organisation or a group of people, having no connection with a political party, decides that its policy suits them best at an election time and they choose to insert an advertisement in a newspaper supporting that party, they are liable to a penalty unless they go cap in hand to that political party and obtain an authorisation from the agent. That is claptrap and I think it is an infringement of the rights and privacy of the individual. 
It is undoubtedly an authoritarian law. It smacks of an attempt to achieve a totalitarian control of the political freedom of people and of their right to act outside public scrutiny. Our society is made up of individuals who have ideas of their own, often similar to one another's. There are people in the community who are not satisfied with the existing political parties. There are people who will want to form their own political organisations. There are people now trying to form parties of their own. But under this legislation there is no future for them because it favours heavily the existing major parties in this country. It will militate against those groups in the community that in future may want to form a new party. So it is an impediment and a disadvantage to people who are politically involved, not with the major parties- those who are dissatisfied with the major parties, those who are wanting to express their own views through a new political organisation. 
Let nobody deny it. No one who has had any association with political parties or organisations can deny that because it is a fact of life. As I said earlier, this legislation is a vicious intrusion into the rights of the individual, of the little peoplenot just the big people, not just the multinationals. I think that the Government is using a sledgehammer to try to crack a peanut. It must be very careful that it does not bring down laws that will ultimately work against the principles upon which this society of ours is based- the freedom and the rights of the individual. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
How many unused buildings and how much unused office space was being leased by the Australian Government, including statutory bodies, as at 30 June 1 974. 
) For how long have these areas been unoccupied. 
3 ) What has been the cost of this unused space. 
Which department has the responsibility to terminate such leases as soon as occupancy is terminated by any department or statutory body. 
I wish to say on behalf of the Opposition that it is not often that members of this Parliament throw a bouquet from one side of the House to the other, unless it is thought that a thorn or two might catch and draw some blood. However, I am going to throw a bouquet at the Minister ibr the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  with whom I have had numerous discussions on this Bill and other Bills under his administration. I hope that my compliment to him is not a kiss of death. I thank him and his Department for the courtesy and cooperation they have shown and for their genuine attempts to respond to my bipartisan- I say that sincerely- approach to matters relating to environment and conservation. I feel that no particular party has any monopoly in this area and nor should it because this is an area that involves each and every one of us. 
I venture to say that no Bill has been subject to more discussion, compromise and endeavours to reach a consensus than the Bill now before the House- and that has not been one-sided. Both the Minister and I are indebted to the legal advice and opinion of our colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  We have been through the legislation with a finetooth comb, but unfortunately there remains the one area of difference between the Government and the Opposition. That relates to clause 69. The Opposition cannot agree to it, for reasons that I hope are intelligent and understandable. The Opposition cannot accept the Government's amendment notwithstanding the Government's agreement to incorporate in the Bill a Schedule naming the international agreements. It is true that the honourable member for Wentworth thought that this may have been a way of overcoming the problem. I think that five or six international conventions are involved. 
Yes, there are five. No doubt there will be many more. The reasons the Opposition gives for objecting to this clause are these: The adoption by Australia of international conventions and the carrying into effect in Australia of these provisions or of the provisions contained therein should be by Act of Parliament. We take that position notwithstanding the fact that we recognise that this principle could in fact make it difficult for us should we go back into government. The second reason is that the effect may be to implement provisions by regulation that could well affect vested rights, such as State interests and so on. There is a principle that needs to be understood, that is, that regulations that could arise having far-reaching consequences affecting foreign policy and human rights as they might relate to Australia and to the international scene can only be disallowed; they cannot be amended. It is felt that to open the field of regulation making powers to such far-reaching consequences to some effect destroys the institution of the national Parliament which of course has its time well taken up in dealing with a whole range of issues, from domestic issues to matters relating to foreign affairs, international codes, international agreements and so on. 
The use of regulations in the way proposed would deny effective opportunity for parliamen.tary debate. When it is all said and done, how many of us in the Parliament have time to go through the volume of regulations that come to our desks day by day and week by week? If we were to allow this amendment to go through, what is to stop the Government from sending the present Minister- I make no reflection on him- or future Ministers overseas to international conferences and becoming a signatory to multi-agreements and bi-lateral agreements with other countries? The result of this could well be that there could be introduced into this House and into the Senate regulations which would have far-reaching consequences on the state of this nation and its relationship with other nations. We could find ourselves involved in an agreement, which we do not like, with the United States of America, the Soviet Union or a number of countries. A regulation flowing from that agreement could be tabled in this House and in the Senate, and unless somebody does his homework very closely, that regulation, within a given time, would become law. 
The national Parliament surely should be concerning itself with matters of international concern. If this Parliament is not prepared to give its time to debating Acts of Parliament that may flow from international agreements, it is not Uving up to its responsibility. It is for that principal reason that the Opposition feels that it cannot accept this amendment. We aU have had experience with a range of regulations which have flowed from existing legislation. The legislation relating to the Australian Schools Commission is an example. The regulations that flow from that legislation do not have the sort of far-reaching national and international consequences of regulations that might flow from an agreement that we could enter into with Japan, Russia, China or other countries which could not only involve the preservation of flora or fauna, but could also have a far-reaching effect upon the environment of man. In a weak moment, Australia could find itself, in the euphoria of a conference, involved in some international agreement that could well limit the freedom and the rights of an individual within a community or society, for the sole purpose of trying to preserve the environment as such. As a consequence, we could find ourselves with regulations flowing into the Parliament and many of them might go unnoticed and become law. We are not opposed to the agreements that have been drawn up, but we feel that as consequential requirements arise from agreements that have previously been entered into with other countries, we all should be prepared to debate a Bill for an Act to make it a proper law and a matter for proper debate in this Parliament. It is a principle which we have spelt out in Opposition and to which we will certainly have to adhere. For these reasons the Opposition cannot support the amendment moved by the Minister. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture inform the House whether the volume of Australian beef exported to the United States of America has continued at a high level? What are the comparative quantities exported to the United States for the years ended 31 December 1973 and 31 December 1 974? In view of the reported surplus of beef on the United States market, is it possible that cheap Australian beef is being processed and exported to some of our traditional customers? Will the Government consider establishing an independent inquiry to ascertain the final destination of cheap Australian beef and to ensure that there is not an international racket at the expense of growers? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Why has there been such a delay in the establishment of the A.C.T. Housing Authority. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to my quesuon No. 495 (Hansard, 26 September 1974, page 1927), what grants are proposed for the New South Wales Aboriginal Legal Aid 
Service for 1974-75, and on what conditions will the grants be made. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Can he say what countries have the optional preferential system of voting. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
As the. Federal Highway, the Barton Highway and the road through Braidwood to Batemans Bay are principally used by persons travelling to or from Canberra, and as these roads are in places inadequate for the traffic they carry, has the Australian Government had discussions with the Government of New South Wales concerning the possibility of: 
the Australian Government assuming responsibility for all these roads or any of them; or 
the provision of special financial assistance to the State to enable it to reconstruct these roads where this is needed; if not, why not. 
I want to say from the outset that I support the principles as outlined in the amendment but will find great difficulty in supporting the amendment as it stands because of a ruling given by the former  Speaker  that this would not allow the debate to proceed to a Committee stage. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  put a case very eloquently in support of the guiding principles in the Bill. I hope to put a case against the principles that will guide us to a decision as to the way in which we will vote. 
Let us have no illusions that this Bill, as it stands, produces the basis for an alternative philosophical approach to marriage and family. It introduces a new concept of marriage, family and divorce. If this Bill passes unamended our traditional approach to marriage and family will undergo dramatic change. Under the guise of removing some of the unsatisfactory and inhuman provisions existent in our divorce laws, the Bill aids the erosion of the basic concept of marriage and the foundation of the family unit. 
True, it will remove some of the divorce law provisions that crush the human dignity of those who face the courts in sorrow of marriage dissolution. The introduction of closed courts is a humane action in the interest of family relations. Why should the private lives of married people be exposed to public scrutiny? There are provisions for the welfare and custody of children and a requirement that proper arrangements are to be made for the welfare of children before divorce becomes absolute. These and other provisions in the Bill are admirable, and I will want to support them in the course of a Committee debate. 
Having acknowledge these worthy provisions I now turn to the reasons I believe this Bill provides an alternative philosophical approach to marriage and family. The first is the single untested cause for the dissolution of the marriage, the irretrievable breakdown provision, the second is the one-year separation provision and the third is the provision which allows one marriage partner only to secure dissolution of marriage. The other provision is the failure in the legislation to give adequate protection to the divorced wife who is unable to earn her own living. The Bill proposes in clause 117, for instance, that in the event of a divorce being defended on any ground each party shall pay his or her own costs. The end result of this monstrous provision is that if a wife becomes deserted and becomes involved in a defended maintenance proceeding she has not only the disadvantage of being deserted but also the privilege of paying for it. In terms of the law under this Bill, the marriage contract is the only form of contract which may be broken at the option of either party, with the offended party suffering the injustice of paying for the breach of contract if he or she opposes any relief sought by the first party or, what is more, seeks any relief for himself or herself. 
Let us be honest. If this Bill is carried in its present form, a married woman facing divorce from a husband earning, say, the average weekly earnings is worse off financially under this legislation. Similarly a father, or a father with the custody of children, could well find himself worse off under the provisions to which I have referred. Moreover, with the no fault 12 months provision, it does not matter how serious or intolerable the real ground for divorce is. Once the no fault provision is completely removed, no matter how serious, cruel or monstrous the misconduct of one of the parties to a marriage may be they must separate for 12 months before proceedings for dissolution can commence. In such cases clause 43 does not ease the problems for the victim of violent misconduct. In fact it makes the position even more intolerable. 
Clause 48 is the philosophical key to this Bill. It says, in effect, that the only way in which it can be established that a marriage has irretrievably broken down is by separation for one year. As the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  has said, this represents a charade in that the parties must live apart for 12 months. 
After having done that they can go to a judge and say: 'We have lived apart for 12 months; therefore we are eligible for a divorce'. It does not matter if the real cause of the separation was cruelty, adultery- no matter how serious or vicious the misconduct might have been- or any other matrimonial misconduct. 
I submit that one of the most serious weaknesses of the Bill is that a marriage can be dissolved by one partner only after one year's separation. This is an incredibly short period of time for an objective judgment to be made that a marriage has irretrievably broken down. Under the terms of such a limited qualification a man separated from his wife for 12 months by reason of military service, ill health in hospital or deten  tion in  prison could  find  himself divorced upon his return home. Another erroneous presumption underlying this new proposal for divorce is that husband and wife can simply separate, terminate their marriage and begin a new life on equal terms. This is not a fact of life. A divorced woman who is without a profession, who has not had a career before marriage or who has been away from her career, profession or area of skilled employment for a number of years, does not easily find a way to adjust to re-entering the employment stream; nor does she, in most cases, readily adjust psychologically to her new situation. 
As I said earlier, there is before us an irreconcilable conflict between the 2 philosophical approaches to marriage. One philosophical approach is the traditional principle of lifelong marriage. We know that it does not exist in many cases, but surely most people who enter this bond do so hoping that it will be a lifelong contract. On the other side there is the attitude of some people that marriage can be, and perhaps will be, a temporary union terminable in easy circumstances. This Bill favours the view that marriage may be regarded as being terminable at the whim of one partner and is not to be regarded as a holy estate and a permanent institution. How many people have been compelled to listen to and to accept the principle of marriage as being that what God has united man must not divide? It might be old hat to mention that in this debate; but do we, in this so-called enlightened age, turn from this Christian ethic by making as law to facilitate the easy dissolution of marriage? Marriage and the family life that generally flows from it are the basis on which our whole society has been built. There are those marriages that fail because of a variety of reasons, and the consequences are traumatic to those concerned. But there are those marriages that succeed, with fulfilling advantages to those concerned, and they are of immense advantage to the structure of our society. 
Marriage is not a contract to be entered into lightly by either partner. Marriage is a contract of the utmost importance between 2 people. It involves a deep commitment- or it should involve a deep commitment- a tolerance, an understanding, and the ultimate in human relations. To those who contemplate this estate, let it be understood that marriage is not without its problems and its moments of friction. Nothing that is worthwhile in life comes to one without effort and perseverance. But for all that, marriage has given warm comfort and great security to countless millions. 
A farmer, when speaking about marriage, once said to me: 'Anybody who thinks marriage is without its problems is not ready for marriage. But, in a sense, it is like farming; you have to take the good with the bad'. He went on to say: 'If I had walked off my farm in the first drought, I would ultimately have regarded myself as a despondent dropout'. So it is with life itself. I think that young people in our community should be encouraged to accept that principle, when entering into a contract with each other, that all is not going to be well all the time but that the benefits of trying to be tolerant, understanding, and to make it work will bring to them and to the community greater benefits than entering this holy estate, as I regard it, with their eyes shut expecting it to be all sunshine and laughter. 
The Family Law Bill creates the temptation to married people to walk out at the drop of a hat and with little penalty. Therefore, the provisions of this Bill make a mockery of its title. As the Bill stands, it further threatens the nature of the marriage contract and thus, I believe, the foundation of our society which, after all, is the family unit. In clauses 48 and 49, as I said ealier, the Bill gives expression to a new philosophy which weakens the commitment of a marriage contract. It is drafted to satisfy the wants of an unfortunate minority in our community and not the need for a stable, orderly and secure society. 
What couple would enter into a marriage contract with a real sense of compulsion and responsibility when both parties know that if their whims and passions and all those things to which they aspire are not achieved within the first 12 months, either party can go back to square one after a separation of 12 months, renounce the commitment- as I said, in many cases that is a commitment to a contract taken not just according to the law but a commitment before Godand then call it off. The clauses of this Bill provide for an easy dissolution of the contract. In other words, when it gets too hot in the kitchen either partner can opt out without the consent of the other, so long as they separate for 12 months. 
The Bill plays down the importance of marriage, not exalting its benefits. If we want to see the destruction of our system- the Christian ethic, as some would call it- there is no better way to do it than to enact this Bill in its present form. Sure, there are unsavoury provisionsprovisions to which I have referred- in the existing laws where a marriage has broken down and a partner feels compelled to denigrate, to smear and to humiliate the other in order to achieve dissolution of marriage when that becomes so necessary for that partner. This is anachronistic and barbaric. But to remove any fault and to require only 12 months separation makes a mockery of marriage, the most intimate and binding contract into which humans can enter. 
There is no need to throw the baby out with the bath water in order to bring some humanity into our existing divorce laws. My conviction and concern for a stable society lead me into conflict with the insidious philosophy that I have mentioned. I support the amendment and the principles in the amendment as moved by the Honourable Frank Stewart, and I hope that others will see the importance of elevating the binding provisions of marriage and not relegate marriage into some trial and error experiment that can be thrown away at a whim. To remove the need to approach marriage with a sense of responsibility, tolerance, discipline and per-severence in the eyes of God or in the eyes of the contract itself is to destroy the fundamental principles of the Christian ethic, and I can have no part of it. 
It is true that some marriages will fail; people will try to work at their marriages and still fail. But it is better to have a motivation and a discipline to try and still fail than to fail after never having had the motivation or discipline to have tried at all. In my view this Bill removes the incentive, the motivation and the challenge to so many young people contemplating marriage to try at all. I know the question may be asked: What is the difference between 2 year's separation and one year's separation? But that is the thin edge of the wedge. In a broken marriage it is the children who suffer. A broken marriage is a nightmare, and the basis of the greatest source of insecurity for the children. If too many of our children suffer the consequences of broken marriage that could arise from the easy provisions of this Bill, the stability of our whole society must suffer. Where children are involved, too often we forget that they are the greatest losers, that they are the real victims. If marriage can be dissolved so easily as this Bill provides, the fate and security of our children are being ignored. 
I find it difficult to support the Bill, and I will not support it in its present form. I support the guiding principles in the amendment that has been moved, but I will not continue to support the amendment unless there can be conceived some action that would enable us to go on to debate the Bill at the Committee stage. I certainly will support the provisions that take some of the inhumanity out of the proceedings in our divorce courts in Australia. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he provide the detailed component costs of all overseas ministerial visits, including his own, for the year ended 31 December 1974. 
Is the Prime Minister concerned at the latest communist aggression in Cambodia and the possible fall of Phnom Penh to the communist rebels? If so, has the Australian Government attempted to use its influence in bringing about peace in Cambodia? If not, will the Australian Government initiate, either bilaterally or in association with other countries, diplomatic moves to ease the tensions in South East Asia? I have one further question that is not unrelated. Are the Press reports true that the United States of America has asked Australia to make a bigger financial contribution to maintaining the naval base at Singapore? 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Will the Government make funds available for research into the concept of refuse-to-energy systems. 
Can he say whether the Union Electric Company in the United States of America is expanding its operation into this field. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Will he provide statistics showing the (a) volume and (b) value, of beef and mutton exports to each country in each month during the period 1 January 1973 to 31 January 1975. 
) Will he provide these as a matter of urgency. 
-Has the Prime Minister initiated any diplomatic action to bring about a cease-fire in South Vietnam and Cambodia during the past 2 months? If so, in what way and through what channels? 
-The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  made a most unconstructive contribution to the debate. Most of his time was devoted to trying to denigrate the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who of course gave a very powerful speech in this House a month or so ago in opposition to the Bill. I understand that the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Clayton)  made some side-swipe at me. I did not hear it. I will check Hansard in the morning and see whether he is worth replying to. I assume from what I have heard that it was not a very constructive contribution either. Having said that, I think we should get away from personalities and personal attacks and get down to the basis of the legislation. 
This Bill owes its origin to a convention entered into by a Liberal-Country Party Government in 1966. That Convention is to be ratified by this legislation. The Opposition condemns racism in all its forms. However the Opposition will move to amend this legislation because it firmly believes that the Bill in its present form will infringe upon the rights of the individual and exacerbate racism in this country. The Bill in its present form will sow the seeds of hatred, racial prejudice, ill-will and disruption among our people. The function of government should be to legislate for the peace, order and good government of the people for the people. La administering justice not only must justice be done but justice must be seen to be done. The Bill will not ensure that justice is seen to be done. 
It is significant that the principal architect of this legislation, indeed the Human Rights Bill, is no longer a member of the Parliament. Both Bills seem to give expression to the same obsessions -to break down the long-established system of British common law, to lay down a means of prosecution that will ultimately destroy the professed objectives of the legislation and to use oppressive abuse of power against the fundamental rights of the individual. The Bill provides a healthy breeding ground for sneaks, informers, pimps, jealousy and revenge, and an army of racial officials whose role will be of an inquisitorial nature with wide powers of law enforcement. Instead of ending hostility and racial prejudice between different racial and ethnic groups in our community, the enforcement of the provisions of this Bill will foment and exacerbate hostility. As each victim of the provisions of this legislation as it now stands is sentenced, a growing reservoir of bitterness, hatred and racism will swell in our society. I say this because of the extraordinary provisions in the Bill under which the victims or those sentenced will in fact be sentenced. The victim will not believe that justice has been done. 
All compassionate and sensible people would aspire to end racial discrimination. This objective must be one of the paramount objectives of mankind during the rest of this century. Unfortunately racial discrimination has characterised modern history as man of different ethnic origins has achieved greater mobility enabling him to move rapidly from his own environment to the environments of other ethnic groups. Racism was probably not a problem for early man. The evolutionary mobility of man made racism possible. Primitive man probably knew no social grouping larger than his family. Because of the natural enemies of man, the family groupings enlarged into a tribe or tribes for selfpreservation. Wars produced combinations of tribes, thence nations, empires and alliances. As a result of self-interest and the need for self-defence men and women became increasingly capable of cooperating in substantial groupings. Lord 
Bertrand Russell in his book 'Has Man a Future ' said: 
As man has emerged from the perils of his non-human environment, he brought with him into his new world the instinctive and emotional make-up by means of which he has survived through previous ages. . . . 
He had reached alert wariness, watchful fear, and, in crisis, courage in face of danger. 
Lord Russell asked: 
What was he to do with his apparatus of habits and passions when the old perils had been overcome? He found a solution, but unfortunately not a very happy one. He turned the hostility and suspicion which he had hitherto directed towards lions and tigers upon his fellow man- not all of them, since many of the skills by which he had survived required social co-operation. 
Russell said: 
In this way, through tribal cohesion and organised war, he reconciled for many centuries the need for social cooperation with instinctive ferocity and suspicion which past struggles had bred in him. 
These quotations and indeed the theme I am developing may seem irrelevant to this Bill and the objective it sets out to achieve. But I do not believe the theme is irrelevant. I see it as being the background of human history against which one should approach such prejudices as racism. Clearly, the emergence of man with the experiences gained in the dawn of his history have led to nationalism which could be more aptly expressed as national prejudice. During the last centruy and this century the spirit of nationalism has tended to foster racial competition, prejudice and racist attitudes. 
Lord Bertrand Russell possibly did more than any other modern philosopher to demonstrate the futility of fostering the modern concept of national prejudice. He warned that this form of nationalism could well lead to the destruction of the human race. How right he was. The Nazi regime and Hilter in Germany during the 1930s cleverly used national prejudice in the name of nationalism to mobilise people into a frenzied attempt to rule the world. Had the atomic bomb been developed 5 years earlier Hitler could well have conditioned the people into accepting the destruction of a large percentage of the human race. While I applaud the need for a national spirit and national pride in one's race and country, I believe we should heed Lord Russell's warning of national prejudice being commonly expressed and accepted as nationalism. The ingredients that produce national prejudice can produce bigotry, racism and political fanaticism. 
The weakness in human nature has led to some of the most bloody religious wars. The socalled reformation of the Christian church was followed by traumatic events which produced prejudice and bigotry. If a Bill were introduced into this Parliament to remove religious bigotry from our community by similar penal provisions as are contained in this legislation I believe it would resurrect religious prejudice and bitterness to a degree which we do not want to suffer today. Probably the most serious threat to the security and safety of mankind today is the aggressive ideological advance of communism. Of course it is often expressed in such glossy terms as a world liberation front and a world peace movement. The belief that the world will not be free until it is liberated by Communism seems to give the adherents to that belief the divine right to murder, to starve and to commit the worst human atrocities. Of course this is another form of bigotry. It is political prejudice which is cruel and intolerable. 
But can one control these human weaknessessuch as the desire of some humans to overpower others either materially, intellectually, commercially or spiritually because of the prejudice or passions of man- by an Act of Parliament which defies British common law and the civil law practice? Such practices have been a feature of our legal system and have been accepted- by our community as the legal system which we require. I fear that this legislation as drafted will only intensify human intolerance and prejudice. Let us look at some of the provisions of the Bill. I agree with a great number of them. Clauses 9 and 10 make it unlawful for a person to do any act involving a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin. I fully subscribe to those clauses. They mean that persons of a particular race, colour or national or ethnic origin shall enjoy the same rights as persons of another race, colour or national or ethnic origin. I think such provisions are desirable. I give the Government credit for setting up a commission to negotiate with people and to try to get a different approach among the different ethnic peoples in our community. 
However, I am completely opposed to the oppressive powers conferred on the so-called commissioner of the Community Relations Council and to the powers of the Council. The powers of the commissioner do not fall into the concept of the rule of law. Under the Bill powers are conferred which could be abused by threatening or at least qualifying a person's right at law. The commissioner is given statutory powers to settle matters out of court with the sanction of then proceeding with court action if the defendant does not settle on his terms. This is a denial of human justice. It is a rule of threat and intimidation. It is a denial of human rights. In the broad the commissioner has 2 types of functions. The first is to promote an understanding and an acceptance of the Act by developing and conducting research and educational programs to combat racial discrimination. Of course, these are desirable powers for the commissioner to have. I welcome and support these powers. It is the second function which I vigorously oppose. This is the function to inquire into alleged unlawful acts and to endeavour to effect a settlement of the matters alleged to constitute infringements. If he is unable to do so he is to institute proceedings. Of course this is a matter which should be settled by civil law proceedings and not by that commissioner who had endeavoured to reconcile the 2 parties concerned. 
Clause 23 should be deleted in its entirety. This clause enables the commissioner to require a person to attend before a prescribed authority, to answer questions, to produce documents and to keep appearing day by day until excused. I submit this represents a blatant attack on the rights of individuals and denies a person privacy to which he ought to be entitled. The commissioner is extended coercive powers greater than the powers possessed by the police forces. Such powers enable him to require persons to attend before him. Such persons are forced to deliver papers and answer questions. Even if the person is required to attend before a judge the judge cannot prevent questions being asked. Moreover, he has no power to grant legal representation to the person attending. He cannot prevent answers received being used as evidence against other persons. 
Clause 28 makes it an offence to disseminate ideas based on racial superiority or hatred. It prohibits the publishing or distributing of written matter, broadcasting or uttering words which could be considered to promote such ideas. 
Although I am not opposed to the concept behind that idea I am opposed to the way in which it is intended to be administered. Although the ideas may be quite abhorrent- as I say, racism is abhorrent- such a prohibition, in my view, in the way in which it is to be administered is illiberal. As much as I detest communism and fascism and their propaganda I do not suggest that it be prohibited. I have always felt that such action within a free society drives underground those forces which are undesirable until they ultimately erupt and do more damage. So prohibitive are these laws that under clause 28 (c) if, for instance, 2 people were talking in Civic and if one were to say: 'Things look bad in Phnom Penh. It looks as though the city might fall', and if the other person said: 'It is the Chinese. You cannot trust the Chinese', it would only take one person to hear that and all he would have to do is to report to the commissioner the incident, the time and the public place at which it happened. The commissioner would have the power to call that person before him to explain why. If he were not satisfied he could fine him $500 and warn him never to do it again. Under this legislation the pimp does not have to identify himself. 
No. The honourable member should read the Bill. The Bill could destroy freedom of speech and attempt to stifle freedom of thought. For those reasons I believe that this Bill has an authoritarian and repressive aspect. Let us hope that the Government agrees to the amendments that take away the power and privileges of the pimps provided for in this legislation. As I said earlier, I believe that this legisltion could well provide the breeding ground for a lot of trouble. I can see it being used as a focal point by professional trouble makers. A Bill of this character is sure to become self-defeating and create tensions where none existed before. One does not sweep racial prejudice under the rug by legislative process. One will have some success through education and more generally tolerant attitudes, by using the processes of negotiation and conciliation. That is the first power that the commissioner has under the provisions of the Bill. 
This legislation, no doubt drafted with the best of intentions, follows literally the provisions of the convention. I believe, for the reasons I have stated, that it violates certain human rights and fundamental freedoms. It intrudes into State law spheres. Another factor that needs to be taken into account is that although there are many signatories to the convention, no other country has found it necessary to enact the literal provisions of the convention by legislation. The Opposition will move amendments in the Committee stage, not designed to condone racism but intended to dismantle what could well become a legisltive monster that would be more suited perhaps to a totalitarian type of dictatorship where the rights and privileges of the individual are of no consequence but where the rights of the state are supreme. 
I want to make one point at this stage: I regret that there was not a free vote on this Bill and that more time was not given to debate the issues contained in the Bill. 
-The Opposition will oppose the amendments to this Bill, which of course has come back from the Senate, in the belief that the people who are directly involved, namely the members of the Aboriginal community living on the reserves in Queensland, do not want the legislation imposed upon them. Last year I and other members of the Opposition, and I am sure the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  who is sitting at the table, received numerous telegrams from council leaders opposing the provisions contained, from memory, in clauses 6 and 7 of the Bill. The Minister might correct me if I am wrong. 
-Thank you. This and other evidence was referred to during the debate on this Bill that took place in another place. Unfortunately the Government has declined to test the feeling of the Aboriginal people by referendum. This, of course, was requested of the Government by the Opposition in the Senate and by a number of Aboriginal people in Queensland. In the light of the Government's refusal to take the issue to referendum the Queensland Aboriginal Advisory Council, as an elected body, requested and in fact pleaded with the Opposition to oppose the 2 clauses of this Bill that are in question. Those clauses, of course, deal with the right of entry on to the reserve in Queensland. 
It would appear that the Government is not recognising the voice of the Advisory Council, a body which was elected by the Aboriginal people in Queensland. Of course, this poses the question: Does the Government really believe in self-determination for Aboriginal people or does it support a policy of achieving its objectives by undermining any authorities outside its own control? Clearly the Government does not believe in self-determination if this is to be the criterion or the test. If it did it would have adopted the Opposition 's suggestion which was not its own original suggestion but one that came from Aboriginal leaders who were living on the reserves in Queensland. If the Government had done so I am sure that it would have called for a referendum amongst the Aboriginal people concerned to determine the issue. But it did not accept this request. 
The Government knows that the people of Queensland, black and white, do not trust its policies. It knows that the Aboriginal communities would vote 'No * to the clauses in question. In the face of opposition from the Queensland Aborigines we witnessed the spectacle of the Government trying to force its will upon the people. The Aboriginal people do not want the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Canberra, and a South Australian based Minister for that matter, taking their decision-making powers away, powers that are vested in them to determine who in fact will come on to their reserves. Clearly they would prefer the Queensland Government and its department co-operating with them in determining the decisions in this matter. 
So the dogmatic attitude of the Government is revealed when in the face of opposition and defeat in another place it persists in trying to restore the contentious clauses 6 and 7 to this Bill. These clauses take away from the elected Aboriginal councils their right to determine who shall visit their reserves. I want to read from a copy of a telegram on this matter sent to  Senator Rae  by  Mr Les  Stewart who is  Chairman  of the Cherbourg Aboriginal Council and of the Queensland Aboriginal Advisory Council. The telegram states: 
On behalf of the Aboriginal Advisory Council I wish to strongly object to the present Bill before Parliament whereby present Councils will have no right to determine who visits and resides on their communities. We object to any new law which will take away our tribal right. We ask you to support us in every way to make sure we retain our rights. We assure you we have not even been consulted as to our views or wishes in regard to proposed new law. Further telegrams of protest sent to Prime Minister . . . Senators Cavanagh Lawrie Bonner Leader of the Opposition  Mr Snedden  and  Mr Anthony  Leader of the National Party. 
I suppose nobody could say that  Mr Stewart  is an inconsequential person or a man of no significance. He is certainly one of the prominent leaders of the Aboriginal people in Queensland. I suppose it is true to say that in the European society a man's house is his castle. In an Aboriginal society the environs of an Aboriginal community are an Aboriginal's castle because clearly Aborigines enjoy living in communities and acting as communities. They believe in the exercise of communal responsibility and authority. Just as we claim and exercise the right as to who shall visit our homes, the Aborigines should have the right to determine who shall visit their reserves, indeed their communities. The Aboriginal people are more community minded in a communal sense than most European people are. This fact has not been registered by the Government in this legislation. 
It does not matter a damn whether the Minister thinks the elected councils are appropriate bodies or not to make the determination as to who shall visit their communities. The point is that clearly the Aborigines themselves see thencouncils as their corporate voice. In characteristic pig-headed style the Government chooses to ignore the telegrams of protest from the Aboriginal people, its shocking defeat in the Queensland State election and its very poor vote amongst Aboriginal communities. For all the effort expended nobody could really say that the result in Queensland was terribly good from the Australian Labor Party's point of view. It is a pity the Party did not try a bit harder to do a bit better. It is probably these sorts of things and this attitude that caused the electoral result in Queensland. 
Surely the Government should be more responsive to the wishes of the people, certainly the Aboriginal people whom it is purporting to assist. In this proposal it has ignored the lack of support it has had from the Aboriginal people, the pleas by the only elected Aboriginal member of this Parliament,  Senator Bonner,  and the plea by the Opposition to ascertain by a poll among the Aboriginal people the wishes of the Aboriginal people before this arbitrary action is taken. In spite of the pleas by the elected Aboriginal councils the Government continued to proceed with these provisions- provisions taking away their authority as to who shall enter their reserves. I shall read a telegram that the Minister sent to  Mr Les  Stewart, the  Chairman  of the Cherbourg Aboriginal Reserve Council. The Minister at least responded to his telegram but I think we should know how the Minister responded to him. The telegram does not say 'Dear Les '. It states: 
Les, as prisoner on a reserve, you have no right to stop any Aboriginal from reuniting with their relatives. Support my Government in this and subsequent legislation and upon return of Cherbourg settlement to Aboriginals, with the right of ownership, you will have the right to decide who enters your private property. Cease being an agent of Petersen and fight for the rights and freedom of your people. 
That is an incredible approach.  Senator Bonner  in another place said: 
As my colleague  Senator Rae  said, how paternalistic can you be? The telegram was addressed to Les Stewart, a highly respected gentleman of the Aboriginal community of Cherbourg, a man who has done remarkably well for himself and for his family. He is not only respected at Cherbourg. He is respected wherever he goes. He is respected in Murgon and 
Wondai. He is a man of high principles and integrity. Yet the Minister says to him: 
Les, as a prisoner on a reserve - 

 Senator Bonner took great exception to this sort of approach from the Minister, and the Aboriginal people themselves also took exception to it. Therefore the Opposition cannot agree to the reinsertion of what was deleted by way of amendment in the Senate. Before it was amended the Bill removed the authority from the elected Aboriginal advisory councils to determine who shall enter their reserves. The Opposition regards the action of the Minister and the Government as a high-handed, impertinent and authoritarian act ignoring the wishes of the Aboriginal people and making a mockery of the Government's policy of self-determination. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cross)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-In the light of the fact that the Opposition is supporting the Bill and accepting the spirit of the intention that is outlined in proposed new clauses 5A and 5B, I pose the question: Why does the Government always use a sledgehammer to try to crack a nut? Some aspects of the legislation are highly desirable. Yet the Government, in its heavy handed fashion, ignores its own philosophy and its own policy of self-determination for the Aboriginal people. Let me quote from Hansard a speech by the only Aboriginal ever to sit in this Parliament. He is  Senator Bonner,  a Liberal Party senator. He opposed the intention which is included in this amendment. He said: 
In my speech last week I threw down a challenge to both the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and the Queensland Government to give the Aboriginal people who are members of the communities on reserves in Queensland the opportunity to vote on whether they wanted these clauses included in the Bill. The Minister did not accept that challenge. Despite what he has said today, I still maintain that the Aboriginal people of Queensland, mainly those who live in Aboriginal communities and who are affected by the Queensland Act, should be given the opportunity to vote on whether they want these clauses retained in this Bill. 
I believe that the Aboriginal councillors should have the right to say who should enter their communities, who should live in the communities and so forth. 
He went on to say: 
It is true that there are occasions on which the councillors will make mistakes. But surely to goodness this is part of the growing up process of councillors. The council has been established for only a short number of years and the councillors will make mistakes. But I believe it is their right to have the power to decide who should be allowed to visit or live on the settlement. Surely they will learn by their mistakes. There will be occasions on which they will be guided by other people, perhaps even people from the administration. 
At another stage he said:  . It is no good the honourable senator saying otherwise. The councils were elected by the people ... I stand to be counted. I want to see clauses 6 and 7 - 
They are embodied in these amendments -  deleted from this Bill to allow the responsibility of the communities to lie in the hands of the duly elected Aboriginal councils. 
Certainly a lot of people would not understand how important it is to give that degree of responsibility to the Aboriginal people at this time when the Australian community itself and certainly this Government have in a sense given the lead to try to engender a spirit of selfdetermination. 
The Queensland Aboriginal Advisory Council and the  chairman  of most Aboriginal councils in Queensland oppose what the Government is trying to insert into this Bill, as contained in clause 5. It relates to their determination with respect to rights of entry and with respect to who shall reside on the reserves in Queensland. The Aboriginal people wish to retain their own powers. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  tries to brush to one side the Opposition's plaintive appeals by saying that Opposition members are conservative and reactionary. Surely it is not conservative and reactionary to plead for the Aboriginal people, at a time when a great change is taking place in this country, to leave the decision-making powers in the hands of the Aboriginal people. Perhaps it is the more radical posture to take. It is at least responsive and it is in accordance with the policy of selfdetermination. The provision which the government is trying to introduce is paternalistic and, of course, it is conservative. I never thought that I would be sitting on this side of the table facing the Minister for the Capital Territory, adopting a more radical posture than the Minister adopts. The great arch conservative now sits smiling at me. No wonder he has a grin on his face. I thought that I at least was one of the conservatives of this Parliament. 
-Perhaps I have seen the light Perhaps the burden of the Minister's responsibilities has dimmed his vision and placed him in a reactionary position. Why does the Government always use a sledgehammer to crack a nut? There are good aspects of this legislation which the Opposition supports. I certainly give the Government credit for aspects of the legislation but I plead with the Government to re-think the matter. Surely there are people on the Government benches who can see the wisdom, in accordance with their own policy and philosophy, in leaving the power to decide who shall enter the reserves in Queensland to the elected Aboriginal councils. To fail to do so makes a mockery of and makes hypocritical the professed policy of the Government. The Opposition opposes the inclusion of these amendments in the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1) If the Aboriginal officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are a burden on the white men in that area, were they employed for political expedience; if so, does this bring into question the integrity and professionalism of the interviewing panels. 
How many of the Department's second division officers were in third division positions in the Office of Aboriginal Affairs prior to the change of Government in 1 972 . 
How many times have the white officials of the Department prepared plans to increase Aboriginal officer participation, which have been rejected by the Public Service Board. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Will he provide up to date relative land development costs in the ACT compared to those in the States. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he list all the protected species of animals, birds and reptiles in Australia. 
Which of these protected species are liable to protection under international obligations or agreements. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What plans has the Government for orderly 'over the border' development from the Australian Capital Territory into New South Wales. 
What stage have discussions reached with the N.S.W. Government. 
Is the Government considering increasing the area of theA.C.T. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Does the Government accept the National Capital Development Commission's 'Y' Plan as a basis for the future expansion of Canberra. 
If so, what discussions have taken place with the New South Wales Government concerning future expansion of the Canberra urban area into New South Wales. 
If not, is it intended to provide for an increased population in Canberra by redevelopment of existing urban areas within the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What are the various steps currently taken by the National Capital Development Commission in the planning and development of blocks of land for detached housing in Canberra up to the stage of handing over these blocks to the Department of the Capital Territory. 
How long is it taking at present on average to bring these blocks to the handover stage. 
How many of these blocks are currently (a) in the design stage, (b) ready to go to tender and (c) under construction by contractors. 
How many of these blocks were expected to be handed over to the Department of the Capital Territory during (a) April, (b) May and (c) June 1974. 
How many are expected to be handed over to the Department of the Capital Territory during (a) July, (b) August and (c) September 1 974. 
Has he had the various steps reviewed lately. 
Has he any proposals to increase the rate of turn-off of detached housing blocks. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 484 which I placed on the Notice Paper in 1 7 July 1974. 
-I rise tonight to speak on the situation in Cambodia and Vietnam in general and in Phnom Penh in particular. We have heard the stories of human misery from the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  and I have also had occasion to hear reports from the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan).  Now that the Australian Embassy and the United States Embassy and all Western journalists have been evacuated from the city the curtains are drawn. We know that at this very moment rockets are raining on the beleaguered city, injuring indiscriminately both the young and the old. People are starving, women and children are dying. They are dying the worst deaths at the hands of the Khmer Rouge, who owe a dual allegience to the communist movement and the exiled Prince Sihanouk, a man who changes allegience to suit his own power base a n .-._d purpose. There is no more cruel aggressor than t h e communist guerrilla, who seems to invest himself with the divine right to inflict the most inhuman savagery on the enemy in order to achieve world liberation or world peace. Well, peace is falling and will fall upon thousands of people in IndoChina as communist aggression continues. Certainly people will be taken out of their villagesthose people whom the communists suspect have been fighting them and those people whom the communists may wish to bring down in any event. 
Undoubtedly people will be taken out of the jungles and other places and destroyed. But what is the free world, the United Nations, indeed Australia, doing to ensure that tens of thousands of innocent people are not massacred in the wake of the communist advance in Indo-China? What is happening tonight to the innocent non- communist people in Hue and Da Nang and Phnom Penh? None of us knows. Who is there to ensure that justice is being done? Who is there to report upon events? And how many of us really care? What has happened to the United Nations? Why is the United Nations Security Council not sending people to these centres to ensure that if butchery is to be done on these people, if they are to be murdered and slaughtered, it is done in the glare of public light? This is one of the rotten things. So much happens in the world that the world can report and record; but not so in Hue, not so in Da Nang. And if Saigon falls I am sure that the curtain will fall until such time as the human reprisals have been executed. 
Of course we do not know, but we have heard reports from others at other times in other parts of Vietnam- for instance, when the communists took Hue. The evidence is there. I want to quote from a book written by P. J. Honey, an author the honourable member would know something about, titled 'Communism in North Vietnam'. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his speech, used I think, the words 'land reform'. This is the sort of land reform that the people get meted out to them by the communist aggressors, and I quote from page 44 of that book where the author talks about land reform: 
The agrarian reform campaign was carried out under the supervision of Chinese cadres familiar with the similar campaign in China, and Truong Chinh identified himself publicly with it. He thrust the campaign down people's throats, using every available propagandist device, and it was carried out with a brutality and disregard for justice that shocked the Vietnamese peasants more than the war itself had done. Chinese patterns had to be followed even when they proved to be unworkable in the different conditions of Vietnam, and the number of casualties appalled the most battle-hardened soldiers. Hundreds of thousands of patently guiltless people were done to death in the most cruel fashion . . . until the breaking point was reached and outraged peasants, armed only with agricultural tools, rebelled against their new masters in many places throughout the country. 
So one cannot help but think that, at this time, reprisals are being carried out against innocent people. I asked the Prime Minister in this House: 'What diplomatic initiatives have you taken to try to bring about a cease fire in Vietnam? ' 
To my astonishment, the Prime Minister indicated that he had taken no initiatives. Not one. Yet we hear from the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs,  Mr Renouf,  who is reported to have said: 'Australia, before recognising North Vietnam, had little opportunity to engage in active diplomacy in Vietnam. Now, however, our influence and access on both sides has been and is being used to end the fighting, to pursue the acceptance of those political conditions under which armed fighting can cease.' He makes the claim that, becuse of the recognition of Hanoi and China, Australia has been placed in a position where it can bring about, where it is bringing about a cease fire, or at least is attempting to do so. Yet only 2 days before, on Tuesday of last week, I asked the Prime Minister: 
Has the Prime Minister initiated any diplomatic action to bring about a cease-fire in South Vietnam and Cambodia during the past 2 months? If so, in what way and through what channels? 
The Prime Minister replied: 
No, I have not. I have seen some suggestions in the newspapers that I or one of the neighbouring leaders who had discussions with me had some such thing in mind. There was no truth in those reports. 

 Mr Speaker, clearly there is a responsibility on Australia and on all countries in the region that have a sense of justice to try to bring about a cease fire. But having failed to do that, there is a responsibility on every decent person in this region to try to ensure that representatives of international agencies, representatives of the United Nations, representatives of governments of this area are in those towns that are being taken over by communist aggression to ensure that justice is being done to innocent people; not to soldiers, not to those who chose to- go out and fight on the battlefield, but to the women and children who are suffering the great consequences of this conflict in South Vietnam. Leave aside for the moment the political division, the political bigotry. Leave that to one side and think tonight about the people who are suffering. 
-The Opposition welcomes the National Gallery Bill as an extension of the efforts made by many distinguished people and indeed by several Liberal-Country Party governments over a long period of years. I have no basic argument whatsoever with the speech just made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I think that he set out to be very fair to the Opposition and to those people who have been associated with the early history of this project. We support the legislation and see great value in the administrative procedures outlined in the second reading speech made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which provide for 2 statutory offices, namely, the Director of the Australian National Gallery and the Secretary and Manager of the Gallery. The Director is to have overall responsibility to the Council of the Australian National Gallery and for the running of the gallery and its artistic direction, and the Secretary and Manager shall under his direction manage the day to day administration of the affairs of the gallery and act as Secretary to the Council. The Prime Minister said that this provision has been introduced to avoid the problems which have arisen so often elsewhere where unlikely and unreasonable combinations of different expertise and experience have been demanded of the person usually with unfortunate results. I think that is a very commendable approach to try to arrive at the right form of administration of what will be one of Australia's most important artistic institutions. However, the Prime Minister exhibited one of his worst shows of vanity in his second reading speech. In his not unusual extravagance he stated one of his most obvious untruths. He said: . . . this is another historic initiative taken by the present Government to promote interest and activity in the arts in Australia. 
He went on to say: 
Our commitment was reiterated in the Policy Speech for the 1974 election and confirmed in the Governor-General's Speech on 9 July 1974. 
The last sentence is in fact correct. But it is quite unfair and it is untrue to try to claim the full credit for an initiative that has evolved over a period of time when so many people have been involved in the development of this concept. Just for the record I want to run through a true account of some of the contemporary history of the National Gallery. In August 1963 the Government agreed in principle to the establishment of a national centre on Capital Hill, the first building of which was to be the National Gallery. Subsequently the then Prime Minister appointed a committee of inquiry, under the chairmanship of  Sir Daryl  Lindsay, to examine and report on the requirements for the National Gallery. The committee's report, presented in March 1966, included recommendations on the purpose and size- 125 000 square feet- of the building. In October 1967 the Government of the day approved the then Prime Minister's recommendation that planning and design should proceed and authorised the construction of the Gallery as the next major prestige building in Canberra. In this decision it indicated that it did not regard the then estimated cost of $4m as setting a limit for planning purposes. That was the figure that was contemplated at that time. From 1963 until 1 968 planning proceeded on the basis of the site being on Capital Hill. However, in 1968 the 
Parliament rejected the lakeside site for parliament house and the Government's decision on the Camp Hill site in 1969, with its implications concerning Capital Hill, necessitated a reexamination of the site in question. 
I think it is very important to get into the total context some of the difficulties that the Government of that day experienced, particularly with relation to the siting of the Gallery. Following the decision that the new and permanent parliament house should be sited on Capital Hill, the National Capital Development Commission, in association with architectural and traffic consultants, carried out a comprehensive review of the planning and design of the parliamentary triangle and the central area of Canberra. Following this review, sites for the High Court of Australia and the National Gallery were recommended in the north-eastern sector of the parliamentary triangle. These sites were approved in April 1970. The Lindsay Committee, in its report to the then Prime Minister in 1966, recommended in general terms accommodation totalling 125 000 square feet. 
Following the appointment of the Interim National Gallery Council in July 1 968, with responsibility for the planning and construction of the Gallery, a joint working group was formed, consisting of representatives of" the Interim Council, the Prime Minister's Department and the NCDC. The first task of the group was the preparation of the brief for the building. In this the working group was assisted by  Mr James  Sweeney of New York, an art critic and gallery director of world repute who was engaged by the NCDC as a special consultant to advise from the point of view of a gallery director. Of course, there was some controversy in respect of  Mr James  Sweeney. But in my time as Minister for the Interior I found the man to be extremely helpful. He came to Australia on two or three occasions and gave us sound advice on the general construction and planning of the proposed Gallery. I will not forget his comment on his last visit to Australia in my time as Minister for the Interior. He said that he was satisfied that the planning and the project were meeting with general satisfaction. He said that the syntax was right. He went back to America believing that this Gallery ultimately would become one of the great galleries of the world. I think that we should place on record our great appreciation to this remarkable man,  Mr James  Sweeney, for the work that he did in assisting in the development of the National Gallery. It is regrettable in a sense that the Prime Minister did not think to pay some tribute to him and to the services that he gave this country. 
However, the working group, starting from the basis of the Lindsay report, prepared a preliminary brief, setting out requirements totalling some 1 85 000 square feet, which was formally approved by the Interim Council in October 1968. This brief was further examined by the working group and the architect and tested against conditions and practice in galleries overseas. The final brief was approved by the Interim Council in March 1969. The Prime Minister's Department, which was then the sponsoring department for the Gallery- I think it probably still is- offered no objection when advised in May 1969 of the building area and other requirements set out in the brief. The significant increase in total area from that recommended by the Lindsay Committee resulted not from any great increase in display and public areas but because further comprehensive investigations indicated that the working and storage areas recommended in the Lindsay report were quite inadequate for the efficient operation of the appropriate gallery. Then, of course, in 1968 a limited competition was conducted to select an architect for the project. The successful contestants were the Sydney firm of Edwards, Madigan, Torzillo and Briggs Pty Ltd. The final brief, calling for preparation of sketch design and cost estimates, was issued shortly after Government approval had been given to the site for the Gallery in the parliamentary triangle. 
That is some of the history- it is an accurate history- of the development up to that time of the concept of the National Gallery in our national capital. I join issue with the Prime Minister in his rather extravagant statement that this is yet another historic initiative taken by the present Government. Quite frankly, I am proud to say that I was involved in a very small aspect of the historical development of the Gallery. I want to incorporate in Hansard, just for the record, a Press release by  Mr Howson,  the then Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, issued on 16 August 1 972. 
I want to mention one man who has been at the butt end of a lot of criticism. I refer to  Mr James  Mollison. What an excellent job he has done. He was appointed by Prime Minister McMahon. On 27 October 1971 the 'Sydney Morning Herald' reported his appointment under the headline 'National Gallery Director Named ' in this manner: 

 Mr James Mollison, 40, is to direct the new National Art Gallery in Canberra. 
The Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  announced the appointment in the House of Representatives tonight, ending a long-standing controversy between the Government and its art advisers. 

 Mi Mollison 's appointment was exclusively forecast in 'The Sydney Morning Herald ' on 8 October. 
A former director of the Ballarat Art Gallery (1967-68), he has been with the Commonwealth Public Service since 1 969 as exhibitions officer. 
He has worked with the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board on the development of the national collection and detailed planning of the Australian National Gallery building. 

 Mr Mollison has suffered much abuse for his choice of art and, as I said earlier, has been at the butt end of a lot of unfair criticism. However, he has remained calm throughout. I found it a great pleasure to work with him when I was Minister for the Interior and I have always admired his dedication, his quiet strength of character and his sense of purpose. I do not join with those who unfairly criticise his contribution to the National Gallery in Canberra. I think that he has had a difficult job in trying to satisfy the art tastes of all sorts of people. I am sure that when the National Gallery opens  Mr Mollison  will receive great applause for the job that he has done in helping to select a range of art to suit the tastes of people generally. I commend the legislation and look forward to its progressive development. I hope that we do not hear again this hogwash and nonsense which the Prime Minister utters in his moments of fantasy as when he said that this is yet another historic initiative taken by the present Government. It does not do him justice; it does not do his Government justice, and it does not do justice to a great body of people who have done so much to see this Gallery come to fruition. 
-I move: 
That this House deplores the granting by the Government to a company, known as DM minerals, the right to negotiate overseas contracts for the sale of minerals obtained by sand mining on Fraser Island before making public an environmental impact statement. 
I have not moved the motion to embarrass the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  whose sincerity I have never doubted. I raise the matter as a censure against his Government and his rather insensitive colleagues, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  I believe that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation has done his best.  His  colleagues have done their worst. They have stabbed him in the back. Let this never happen again to any future Minister for the Environment and Conservation. I hope that a future Liberal-Country Party government would not do this to its Minister for the Environment and Conservation. The consequences could well be devastating. 
Fraser Island- incredible Fraser Island- the biggest sand island on earth, is now under ruthless attack. It is an island which could be classified, under the convention for the protection of the world's cultural and natural heritage adopted by the United Nations Economic Scientific and Cultural Organisation in 1974, as an area of international significance. Fraser Island has been the best preserved part of the sandy coast of south eastern Queensland. It has vast resources of scientific and tourist interest. It is an island with a unique series of fresh water lakes, permanent streams, tropical rain forests of great and lush richness and magnificently coloured sands. The Australian Conservation Foundation has been a constant advocate for its preservation as a wilderness area or as a national park. 
One of the essential steps to protect Fraser Island from exploitation is the preparation of a management plan aimed at preserving and making the most of the island's distinctive assets. Those who argue against any such plan for Fraser Island argue that its resources are essential to the employment opportunities in Maryborough and the surrounding district. Whilst there may be some truth in this argument, it does not justify the Government's decision to allow large scale sand mining to take place without a proper and objective study, survey and assessment. Once an industry commences in any given region, the employment opportunity which it establishes becomes almost sacrosanct to the people of the area. It has been an accepted fact of modern day planning that environmental considerations are an important dimension in any development project. This was recognised by Prime Minister McMahon in the former LiberalCountry Party Government. He was the first Prime Minister in Australia to introduce the environmental impact statement technique into decision making. Indeed the Whitlam Government stated its acceptance of the EIS technique and introduced the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Bill 1974 on 26 November. Subject to one small amendment, the Opposition Parties supported the Bill. The Opposition commended the Government and the Minister for the Environment and Conservation for the legislation as indeed most environmentalists and conservationists applauded the Government's action. What has happened since the passage of this legislation that was surely drafted to enable adequate inquiry to take place and thus save Fraser Island and other areas from malicious exploitation? 
Let me trace the sad events leading up to D.M. Minerals' obtaining Government approval to sell sand minerals overseas. These are the events as I know them. It they are not correct the Minister for Minerals and Energy may place the facts before the House. 
-On 20 November last year, the Minister for Minerals and Energy- that noted conservationist- wrote to that other noted conservationistthe Prime Minister- about election time in Queensland saying that he proposed to approve the application from D. M. Minerals for the right to seek export contracts. I understand that the Minister agreed with the strict conditions that the Queensland Government had placed on the company's operations and its landscape restoration obligations. Whether this is right or wrong we do not know. As far as I know, the Queensland Government has not made these obligations public. I am not excusing the Queensland Government or any other government. We are led to believe that the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet contacted the Department for the Environment and Conservation for advice. That Department rightly advised that no action should be taken unless an environment impact study were made. This reply was sent on 22 November. It was on this day that the Prime Minister, who was caught up in the Queensland State elections, wrote to the Minister for Minerals and Energy agreeing to export approval. We understand that the Prime Minister also advised the Minister that prominent publicity should be given to the decision in the Maryborough area. 
It was a political decision; it was not even an economic decision nor a decision in favour of social welfare. It was a callous, cynical, political decision showing no regard for the environmental protection of Fraser Island. The Prime Minister's decision was taken in spite of the fact that the EIS legislation of his own Government was introduced into this Parliament by one of his Ministers on the same day. What a stab in the back! What hypocrisy! Apparently the Minister for Minerals and Energy wrote to D. M. Minerals on 13 December granting approval of the company's request. As far as I know, the Minister for Minerals and Energy did not publicise his decision, for reasons best known to him. It was not until March this year that the truth came out, shocking the Minister for the Environment and Conservation and environmentalists everywhere. 
It is significant that the Minister for Minerals and Energy advised D. M. Minerals on 13 December- 4 days before the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act became law. In other words, he went under the neck of the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. In camp drafting terms, he should have been 'cracked off the field'. He beat the gun. He did not give publicity to it. We are told that the Minister for Minerals and Energy is a conservationist. Why did he act in this way? He is not the puppet of his Department; nobody would dare say that. Why did he not consult his colleague, the Minister for Environment and Conservation? I understand that they were good friends. There are suspicious circumstances. It is more than strange. To use an Australian colloquialism which everybody knows, 'It stinks'. Why did the Minister for Minerals and Energy show such consideration and interest in D. M. Minerals- a part multi-national company- when he is so obstructive to other mining ventures? I cite the example of the Utah company in Queensland. Here again there are suspicious circumstances. 
Let me repeat the dates again. On 26 November, the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Bill 1974 was introduced by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. 
On 26 November- the same day- the Prime Minister wrote to the Minister for Minerals and Energy agreeing to the proposal being given to DM Minerals. On 13 December the Minister for Minerals and Energy wrote to DM Minerals granting approval. On 17 December the Government's environment protection impact proposals legislation was proclaimed. It was not until March that the news leaked out. I understand it was leaked not from Government sources but from the company concerned. I wish to quote from a letter, a photostat copy of which came into my hands, which was written to the Prime Minister on 10 April 1975 and signed by  Mr Nigel  Wace. The letter read as follows: 
I can scarcely imagine a more cynical or damaging way in which an Administration could subvert the intentions of its own Cabinet decision than this. If the issue of minerals sands from Fraser bland is allowed before the issue of an EIS, and a fair opportunity given in the courts for the public to challenge any such development, what reliance can we place upon this Government's professed concern for the environment? And if the EIS legislation is thus undermined from the start, what hope is there that any future Liberal Government will pay any regard at all to an Act which is not even respected by the very party which promoted it? 
The letter continues: 
One of the reasons that I voted for your party in the last 2 Federal elections was that the ALP policy seemed to offer some hope that environmental issues within the community would be resolved by democratic- and ultimately by legalprocess. Your proposals for the compulsory issue Environment Impact Statements seem to go some way in this direction. The EIS is, in the field of man/environment relations, an embodyment of a truly socialist philosophy which allows the people to be subverted right from the start by permitting the export of dune sand minerals from Fraser Island before an EIS, or in defiance of its findings, you will forfeit my support. 
I wonder how many other people feel as disillusioned as the gentleman who wrote that letter. 
In a world of rapidly growing population, of severe inequalities, of underprivilege, hunger and disease, the Australian conscience in a relatively resource rich continent must look to its responsibilities in a world context and not only towards its own people. The dilemma is a very real one: On the one hand to conserve, on the other to produce. The judgment is one to which the Liberal and Country Parties are geared to respond. We recognise the need to achieve a balance between the conservation of the environment and economic growth in the knowledge that people not only demand a better environment for themselves and their children but demand also jobs, better houses, better nutrition and better services. This is the great challenge for the world in the last part of this century. But it is clear that certain disciplines need to be followed to achieve this balance and to prevent a Fraser Island happening again. 
A Liberal-Country Party government will invoke the principles of the environment protection legislation introduced by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. We will ensure that prior to decision making an EIS is prepared for. any development project under Commonwealth control. We will make these assessments public before Government decisions are taken. We will ensure that EIS are publicly available before Government decisions are taken and will refer controversial projects to an independent commission to hear evidence from the public and inquire into and report on controversial projects. Let us hope that this brutally dishonest raping of Fraser Island by a Government which has posed as being environmentally conscious marks the beginning of a new era, a new era where development at all cost, where jobs at all cost, where profits at all cost, give way to a more sensitive public determination to balance growth, jobs, profits and standards of living against the needs of posterity and the quality of life. 
Environmentalists have a cause for resentment. They have a justification for frustration and disappointment. The Whitlam Government clearly went to the people in 1972 and again in 1974 with a policy that attracted. Yet it introduced a Bill- and it did so with the support of the Opposition- to protect the environment from this sort of intrusion, and 4 days before its proclamation it defied its own Cabinet, its own Caucus decisions and, indeed, its own law. The Opposition shares this disappointment, resentment and frustration and expresses its deep concern that the whole EIS concept is a sop to conservationists which will be thrown to them while the real decisions are made by hard-headed profit takers and politicians behind closed doors. Little wonder that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  issued his low key Press statement on 25 March and announced the establishment of an inquiry which it was hoped would influence the mining of the approved leases on Fraser Island. I read from that Press statement: 
The Australian Government is constitutionally responsible for the granting of export approvals for minerals and other resources and so the inquiry - 
Which he announced on that day -  will be concerned, amongst other things, with proposals for sand-mining on Fraser Island which require export approval. 
DM Minerals has in fact recently received Australian Government approval to negotiate export contracts for specified quantities of rutile and zircon and the Australian Government will honour its approval. 
The Company proposes to fulfil these contracts from 2 mining leases on Fraser Island- Nos 102 and 95- which had been previously granted by the Queensland Government. 
They are very significant contracts, as I think the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  will probably agree. In fact, he says they are the most significant areas presently being contemplated as a mining area.  Dr Cass's  Press statement continues: 
I expect that the findings of the inquiry will influence the mining of these leases and make recommendations on the future uses of the island. 
Submissions to the inquiry will be invited and it is expected that hearings may be conducted in several centres. 
This is all very well. The Minister for the Environment and Conservation has done his best but the horses are out of the yard. He knows that they got out of the yard before he could shut the gate. An inquiry is being held in respect of a fait accompli. The rights to export the minerals have been given and so an inquiry is now to be held, I suppose, in the hope that the minimum amount of damage is done to the environment, to the sand dunes and the island in the course of those mining operations. 
I conclude by saying once again that I hope that this incident, which will become known as the Fraser Island incident, ushers in a new era where governments in future will never undertake or give approval to development projects of this kind without first undertaking an environmental impact study- an assessment- and making the result of those studies public, and without giving the public an opportunity to put their case. 1 refer not only to the uninformed public but also to the scientists and others. I hope that we will introduce into our thinking, planning and development this very important dimension which is so essential for future generations that will live on this earth. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
On what date did the Government authorise D. M. Minerals to negotiate overseas contracts for the sale of minerals mined on Fraser Island, Queensland. 
Does the Government intend to honour its undertaking to D. M. Minerals. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Minister for Minerals and Energy inform the Prime Minister that he intended to approve an application from D. M. Minerals to negotiate overseas contracts for the sale of minerals mined from mineral sands on Fraser Island; if so, when did he reply to the Minister. 
Did he inform the Minister for the Environment and Conservation of his decision; if not, why not. 
-On 21 April 1975 the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  while speaking to the adjournment joined issue with me in respect of a speech I made in the adjournment debate early in the week about casualties in South Vietnam as a result of communist aggression and communist killings, particularly in the city of Hue, in 1968. The honourable member for Diamond Valley suggested that I look at more independent evidence and that by doing so I would perhaps find that the deaths at Hue were the responsibility not of the cruel communist aggressors but were more the result of cross-fire as a result of American intervention in the war. I feel bound to reply that I believe that the honourable member for Diamond Valley has been reading literature that has tried to cover up just what the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese communists have done in South Vietnam on each occasion that they have taken South Vietnamese land. There have been mass slaughters and mass murders. Innocent people have been taken out of the towns and the cities and have been slaughtered and buried by the thousand. I have here a copy of an article from 'The Times' of Thursday, 27 November 1969. The article was written by  Mr Fred  Emery who is a well known correspondent. The article begins: 
News of the Pinkville massacre has overshadowed the killings at Hue by communist forces in February, 1968. As Fred Emery reports here, 2500 bodies have so far been found and the digging goes on. 
That is dated Saigon, 26 November 1969. 1 seek leave to incorporate this article in Hansard. 
Last week saw again the numbing scene which has recurred more than 30 times near Hue since the three-week occupation of the former capital by communist forces in February 1968. A group of distraught relatives, and the hatefully curious, watched at Phu Thu as sandy ground was delicately removed by a group of young men- another grave had been found. 
The remains of 15 young people were disinterred. In the area near by since November 7 the remains of 230 persons have been recovered, barely identifiable after this lapse of time, though hope has persisted desperately among the watchers. 
At a new special cemetery at Ngu Binh,  President  Thieu of South Vietnam, together with hundreds of mourning relatives of those still missing, last month attended the funeral of some 250 people believed to be represented by the unburied remains found in September at Nam Hoa. 
Here remains were found wired together, skulls battered. Last March and April more than 800 bodies were exhumed from mass graves. And since the first group of 70 was found bound and shot behind Gia Hoi primary school in the city on February 29, 1968, a few days after the communist withdrawal, the grim toll of bodies recovered has risen to just over 2500. 
The search has continued as pacification in the surrounding coastal plain and foot-hills has extended government influence to new places and fresh informants. The Vietnamese committee in charge of the task claims that 2000 more people at least are missing. 
No one will ever know whether they were all murdered by the Vietcong. But enough evidence exists to suggest that most were. Hundreds of people filed reports that their relatives were either arrested by Vietcong cadres with lists of 'enemies of the people ', or dragooned in groups for enforced help. 
Among the hundreds of bodies found in the immediate aftermath of the occupation, many were bound and shot, others had, judging from their posture, been buried alive, some persons, claiming unverifiably to be survivors, asserted that the killings had continued for some time after the withdrawal from the city in surrounding areas where the communist forces were heavily pursued. 
Many of those identified in the first group were government officials and their families, policemen and some politicians, including one senator. They also included four Germans working at the Hue hospital and Roman Catholic priests. 
Later groups, it has been officially claimed, have included many youths and students who had been press-ganged by the communist forces. 
In a week of outcry abroad over the alleged massacre by American troops, many Vietnamese officials have remarked bitterly on what they see as international indifference to Vietcong terrorism which found its paroxysm in Hue. To observe that terrorism is part of revolution changes nothing in their view. 
Perhaps as many as 40000 Vietnamese civilians have been killed by the Vietcong since the resumption of the terror campaign in about 1957- -indiscrimmately and selectively. This year alone more than 1000 people are said to have been assassinated after being selected by name. 
Intimidation is achieved in both forms, but selective elimination can slide by in the jargon of disposing of 'tyrants' (probably some are) while also bleeding the country of its leadership potential at the medium and low levels. 
Not surprisingly, it seems suspiciously timely that just this week an alleged North Vietnamese document has been brought to the surface in Saigon purporting to boast that at least 2748 persons were 'eliminated' during the Hue campaign. 
Buried in a glowing 'victory report', the relevant passage reads: 'We eliminated 1892 administrative personnel, 38 policemen, 700 tyrants, six captains, two first lieutenants, 20 second lieutenants and many n.c.o.s'. This was besides astronomical casualties claimed to have been inflicted on the allies. 
An American 'who works closely in the field of documents, defectors and prisoners of war' today admitted that everyone would suspect the timing. But he claimed that the document had come to light again only last Saturday when a bunch of papers connected with the Tet offensive had been extracted from the combined document centre in Saigon for the benefit of a Washington Post journalist doing research for a book. The document had been overlooked at the time of its arrival in May, 1 968, because the American said, of the pre-occupation with the May offensive. 
The worn and handwritten papers that I was shown were it is claimed, found on the body of a North Vietnamese 20 miles from Hue in April, 1 968, by men of 1 Air Cavalry Division. They were translated on May 2 but not closely evaluated by intelligence because they told past history- the reference to elimination was made only on page seven. You take it or leave it 

 Mrs Nguyen Thi Binh, the 'Foreign Minister' in Paris of the National Liberation Front 'Provisional revolutionary government', once sought to attribute the murders to local rival factions, but Hanoi radio (April 27, 1969) stated that 'hooligan lackeys' in Hue had been 'annihilated by southern armed forces ' (their words for the Vietcong). 
Why they did it is still not clear. The alleged document states: 'Hue was the place where reactionary spirit had existed for over 10 years. However, it took us a short time to drain it to its root.' 
Certainly the people of Hue did not rise up for the Vietcong as the communists might have been led to expect. But, strikingly, as I have found in talking to many Hue people, there is no blame for the North Vietnamese. Their men were seen as soldiers doing their straight military job. 
It is the local Vietcong whom the people detest for having planned and executed liquidations. 
-I thank the House. In the time that is available to me I want to devote my attention to one paragraph in that article. Fred Emery reports: 
Here remains were found wired together, skulls battered. Last March and April more than 800 bodies were exhumed from mass graves. And since the first group of 70 was found bound and shot behind Gia Hoi primary school in the city on February 29, 1968, a few days after the communist withdrawal, the grim toll of bodies recovered has risen to just over 2500. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
On what date was the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 proclaimed. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports of mining leases being granted for marine fibre deposits off the shores of South Aus;r«i_ a. 
Have any studies been made of the effect of this mining on the er&gt;&lt;vironment 
If this ruining proves environmentally acceptable, does he foresee that the marine fibres so mined will be a valuable alternative ;.. woo :c: .ps as a raw material for the production of cellulose both for Australian industry and for export. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Has any decision been taken on any of the recommendations of the Joint Committee on the A.C.T. in its Report on self-government and public finance in the A.C.T.; if so, what are the details. 
Will he ensure that the Government will inform the House of its decisions on the report as a whole and not take ad hoc decisions which may undermine the report in specific cases. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
On what date did he learn of the Minister for Minerals and Energy's action to permit D. M. Minerals to negotiate overseas contracts for the sale of minerals from mineral sands on Fraser Island. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that, on the occasion of the opening of the Parliament by Her Majesty The Queen on 28 February 1974, there were armed demonstrators outside Parliament House. 
If so, how many armed demonstrators are now known to have been present. 
Can he say whether an officer of the House of Representatives warned the office of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on the evening prior to the opening of Parliament that a demonstration would probably take place at the Department's headquarters during the opening of Parliament. 
If so, why was no action taken by the police to protect departmental officers remaining in the building. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to my Question No. 498 (Hansard, 26 September 1974 page 1941), were the funds for the purchase of Kildurk Station and Glenairy /Sunnyside provided by way of grant or loan and, if by way of loan, what were its terms. 
Is it a fact that the valuations by private consultants of Willowra Station in the Northern Territory were higher than that of the Government Valuer, and was the price paid that recommended by the private consultant. 
Was the same private consultant used in connection with the purchase of Kildurk Station as for Willowra. 
What action was taken to confirm the recommendation of the private consultant advising on the value of Kildurk to ensure that the property was not purchased from public funds at an excessive price. 
Has the firm of consultants who advised on the valuation of Kildurk Station any role as adviser in running Amanbidgi Pry. Ltd. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the falling morale of the A.C.T. Police Force. 
Has he endeavoured to ascertain the reasons for the dissatisfaction within the Force. 
What functions have the Commonwealth Police taken over from the A.C.T. Police Force. 
Does he intend to amalgamate all the police forces under Commonwealth control into the one force directly responsible to the Attorney-General. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received an urgent request for an investigation to be undertaken into the police activities in the Alice Springs area; if so, is an investigation to take place. 
If an investigation is to take place, (a) who is to conduct it and (b) what opportunity will be offered to the Northern Territory Police Force to give evidence. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he give an assurance that no steps will be taken to bring the N.T. Police Force under the control of an Australian Police Force, as proposed by  Mr Carmody,  before the Joint Committee has reported on the implications of cyclone Tracy on plans to transfer some responsibilities to a Territory Executive, and until that report has been debated in the House. 
Will he also give an assurance that no such steps will be taken in relation to the A.C.T. Police Force in advance of the presentation to the Parliament of proposals for the creation of a Territory Executive in the A.C.T. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
Does the establishment of the new Department of Police and Customs imply that those recommendations of the Joint Committee on the A.C.T. in its Report on selfgovernment and public finance in the A.C.T. which relate to the Territory Police Force have been rejected. 
Does the establishment of the new Department mean that any recommendations the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory may make concerning the Police Force in that Territory have been prejudged and that the recommendations of the Committee in its report in 1974 have been ignored. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. When did the Department of Minerals and Energy have its first discussions with DM Minerals about sand mining operations on Fraser Island? Did the Minister call for an environmental impact study or statement when DM Minerals began negotiating with his Department in accordance with the mandatory requirements laid down on 1 January 1974? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
We have been treated to another one of those exercises by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who is constantly trying to make the case that the National Country Party of Australia is out to dominate and stand over the Liberal Party on matters of redistribution. There has been no such exercise. The Country Party has not been adopting Tammany Hall tactics which are so characteristic of the Government's own councils. The decision was taken to oppose this redistribution on the grounds of justice and equity by the Liberal Party in its own right. Let us kill the idea that the Country Party is holding a pistol at the head of the Liberal Party on this issue or on any other issue. We have a very good working relationship with the Liberal Party which we have enjoyed for 23 years. During that time we gave the country the best run of government it has ever had. Many people who were persuaded, for environmental reasons and for a host of other reasons, to vote for the Australian Labor Party at the last election have regretted doing so. 
Honourable members interjecting; 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 1 85 which I placed on the Notice Paper on 2 October 1 974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the private newsletter entitled Follicle, dated April, Vol. 1 , No. 2. 
If so, was there an article questioning the expenditure of or monitoring of International Wool Secretariat funds. 
Is it a fact that 70 per cent of the International Wool Secretariat funds being expended in France is on administration costs. 
How does the Government and the Australian Wool Industry Conference establish if the funds being allocated to promotion are being spent in the public interest and the best interests of the woolgrowers. 
-The Opposition accepts the suggested alternative, which covers the same ground as the amendment moved by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  We are indebted to the honourable member for Parramatta for bringing this matter to the attention of the Opposition and subsequently of the Government. It was his observation. I am sure that he agrees that the Government's proposed amendment covers the same ground and is probably more tidy in its drafting context. 
I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following paragraph: 
In the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers the Commission shall, where it is appropriate to do so, consult with the States'. 
The whole purpose of this amendment is to ensure that in the development of a joint register, or in the hope of making the register really meaningful, there would be co-operation between the Australian Government and the State governments. Unless this is achieved, of course, while the register would be largely meaningful to the Australian Government, when it comes to the functions of the States it would be of no real significance at all. I know it would be the intention of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  to ensure that in the development of a register all governments, Commonwealth, State and local government would pay the same regard to a place on the register as, indeed, the Australian Government would have to under this legislation. So I do urge upon the Government to accept that amendment in good faith to ensure that consultation does take place to achieve the objective which this Bill sets out to achieve. 
I am not moving an amendment, but I want to draw the attention of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to sub-clause (1). It appears to be contradictory to the general concepts of our company law, as it currently exists, that the mere ownership of the majority of shares or voting power should permit the Commonwealth to have legislative power in respect of corporations owned by or on behalf of Australia. I suggest that the Government have a further look at this matter. No doubt the draftsmen have been through it, but perhaps they will have a further look at this because of a legal technicality that could arise in the event of a challenge to this legislation. 
-I accept that undertaking given by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass).  He has proved to be a man of his word and a man of honour. The Opposition will accept this undertaking. I am sure that the Government will come forward with an amendment to satisfy all political parties in the Senate. 
Consideration interrupted. 
-The Opposition welcomes the legislation which gives legislative expression to the major recommendations of the report on the National Estate. It was a report which the Opposition generally applauded. It represents the first major survey of Australia's National Estate and heritage. One can only congratulate the efforts that were made by the members of the committee of inquiry and, in all fairness, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  deserves full credit for the efforts he has made to awaken the Australian people to their responsibility to protect the National Estate, to conserve our resources and to conserve and protect where necessary our flora and fauna. However, the Minister alone or governments alone have little hope of protecting the National Estate or the environment. 
The environment, and for that matter the National Estate, surrounds all of us. It belongs to all of us. It is not the monopoly of any one man. It is not the monopoly of one generation, one group, one party, one government. It is ours to pollute, to destroy, to desecrate, or it is ours to value, to preserve, to protect, to hand on to the next generation. The National Estate is worth defining in the terms of the legislation. I think it needs to be recorded and spelt out. The Bill states:  the national estate consists of those places, being components of the natural environment of Australia or the cultural environment of Australia, that have aesthetic, historic, scientific or social significance or other special value for future generations as well as for the present community. 
Our National Estate is worthy of our cooperative actions to preserve and to protect for future generations. This splendid objective will be achieved only by co-operation among the people themselves, and among governments at all levels. Confrontation is an unfortunate and destructive human quality. It can be avoided. It can be encouraged by dogma, by dogmatic actions, by insensitive actions, by standover actions. Confrontation can be avoided in CommonwealthState relations by genuine consultation, by a genuine respect for the rights and powers of others. It will be avoided only by cooperation between all governments and the community at large. Co-operation and co-operative effort by all sections of the community are necessary to enhance the quality of our environment and to protect the National Estate. 
Whilst I welcome the report as a whole, I feel that I must refer to one unfortunate passage in the report of the Hope Committee, which often is quoted gleefully by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and which he quoted in his second reading speech. I quote the Minister's quotation: 
The Australian Government has inherited a National Estate which has been downgraded, disregarded and neglected. 
That is a statement which no doubt delights many people, including many Government supporters. However, it is an irresponsible, sweeping statement which gives the impression that none of the States have cared about the natural beauty, the landscape, the historic buildings or this land and its heritage. It drops the bucket on the heads of hundreds of people who have been associated with national trusts and those who have done so much in their lifetime to try, albeit without sufficient funds, to preserve the National Estate. In any event, it is not the Government that has inherited the National Estate. The National Estate does not belong to this Government; it does not belong to any government. If it did, then God help the National Estate. If this Government does to the National Estate what it has done to Fraser Island, to the Australian economy, to the rural industries, to the farmers and to the labour market, then the Australian people have reason for deep concern. 
It is true to say that for many years after the war, successive Liberal-Country Party governments were elected by the Australian people on policies to increase our population, to broaden our economic base and to develop one of the highest living standards in the world. It is true that those Liberal-Country Party governments were responsible for the greatest economic growth in Australian history and for policies of full employment. It is not true that there was completely uncontrolled development. It is true that encouragement was extended to private enterprise. It is true that Liberal-Country Party governments did not attempt to shift enormous resources from the private sector to the government sector, or what is known as the public sector. We have seen the deplorable consequencesboth economic and social- of an attempt by the Whitlam Government to shift resources from the private sector to the government sector in the shortest possible time. 
The members of the Hope Committee do not want to live under the delusion that because a Federal government takes over the National Estate it will be safe from destruction. It is in times of prosperity, full employment and social security- we are all products of that situationthat a population is likely to concern itself with the environment and the National Estate. It is in times of economic disorder and social suffering that a population is more likely to concern itself with its own social survival and to ignore the environment and the preservation of the National Estate. Thus there is reason to be concerned about the National Estate if the Whitlam Government continues to disrupt the Australian economy, fails to arrest inflation and unemployment and fails to stabilise the Australian economy to levels to which the Australian people became accustomed under successive LiberalCountry Party governments. However, one hopes that there will be a new era in which development at all costs, jobs at all costs and profits at all costs will give way to a more sensitive public determination to balance growth, jobs, profits and standards of living against the needs of posterity and the quality of life. 
Having said that the Opposition supports the legislation, I must say now that it has some serious reservations about 2 principal omissions from the Bill: Firstly, the failure of the Government to write into this legislation the need for the Commission and the Minister to confer with the States; and, secondly, the failure to make any provision for compensation to an owner of a private building, a site, or an area which is defined as a place in the legislation and which has been included in a list or a register. Dealing with the first matter of serious concern- that is, the lack of need to consult and confer with the States- it is surprising that the Government has not written into this legislation this important provision. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development himself drew attention to this requirement. He said in his second reading speech: 
We need the generous co-operation of State and local governments in pressing on with our National Estate policies. We would hope that the State governments will enact legislation that will supplement our national initiative. 
How right the Minister is. That is so true. At page 206, paragraph 7.2, the report on the National Estate reads: 
It follows that, in respect of almost all matters concerning those parts of the National Estate within the States (not being places acquired by the Commonwealth), the States have full and complete powers of conservation and preservation. Thus the States have ample power to create, control and manage systems of national parks; to identify, protect by acquisition or planning, maintain and enhance buildings or groups of buildings which are part of the National Estate; to provide and maintain open space and parklands in or near urban areas; to control mining and other development; to provide fauna and other reserves. 
The report goes on: 
The limitations of the powers of the States are generally not legal limitations: they are limitations such as the shortage of money; the lack of skilled personnel; the difficulty of doing some things on a State as opposed to a national basis. These deficiencies are serious handicaps to the States in their attempt to preserve the National Estate and point to the ways m which the Australian Government can assist. 
In assisting the Government certainly must cooperate. In the report of the Interim Committee on the National Estate which was tabled in the Parliament only a week or so ago, the Interim Committee made these comments: 
The Interim Committee recognises that the Australian Government has- the Territories apart- a limited constitutional power to legislate to protect heritage sites. We also strongly believe that the most effective conservation movement will be one which has deep roots in local communities. We have therefore agreed that policies and programs for the protection and management of heritage sites must be developed in close co-operation with the States and local government. The Interim Committee believes it would be very useful if registers of heritage sites could be established by State Governments and the Australian Government working together, and that sites (and structures) on such registers could be simultaneously protected by both Australian Government and State Government legislation. We warmly commend to the future Commission that it continues to expand and encourage working relationships with the States to establish joint registers and to develop joint National Estate policies and programs. 
I agree with that entirely. Unless the Commission is able to achieve a close working relationship, then the Minister's dreams, the Government's ambitions and my hopes will be dashed to the ground. It is clear that the Australian Government has constitutional limitations. It will require the closest co-operation, the closest understanding and participation by the States to achieve what the Minister hopes will be achieved. It is because of that that we hope that the Minister and the Government will give serious consideration to the amendments which we will move in the Committee stage to try to make it mandatory for the Government and the Commission to work in that direction. 
Since the main thrusts appear to be Commonwealth-State co-operation, I wonder why there was no legislative provision to ensure that this co-operation and consultation with the States takes place within the ambit of the Bill. It could have been an oversight or a drafting problem. The amendments which we intend to move in the Committee stage do not place undue limitations on the Minister or the Australian government of the day; but they do make it necessary for the Commission and the Minister to confer with the appropriate State Ministers. I know that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has been engaging in a number of these consultations and has become quite skilled and adept at working with his counterparts in the States in trying to achieve a resolution of problems in respect of sewerage programs, new town developments and other programs throughout Australia. 
And land commissions in some States. This is how the whole approach to the preservation of our national heritage should be directed. If the Government does not accept these amendments it will be clear to the Opposition and the States that the Government does not intend to co-operate or to respect the views of the States in a program to protect the National Estate. If the Government fails to do this and fails to set an example in the areas where it has a direct responsibility, and I refer principally to the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, how can it profess to have any right to tell the States how to do their job? So the challenge is at the door of the Minister and I hope he will see fit to give serious consideration to the amendments which we move in good faith. The Opposition hopes that the Minister will make a better job of bringing about the necessary cooperation than some of his colleagues have done in other areas. 
The Bill provides power for the Commission to compile national registers of items of historic and scientific interest. These registers are vital as part of the development of land use planning and strategies. They are essential in guiding us in conservation techniques and in considering all development proposals for buildings, mining industries, rural, forestry and other industrial developments. All Austraiian Government agencies and Ministers will under this Bill have to take into account the considerations of the National Heritage Commission when planning their development proposals. It is a new dimensionan exciting new dimension- which will become a feature of future planning, a feature which I hope will become existent throughout Australia. The successful fulfilment of this great concept will depend, as I have said before- and I cannot stress it too much- upon co-operation between the Australian, State and local governments. I share with the Minister the hope that the State governments will enact complementary legislation to supplement the intentions in this Bui. It may take time but let us hope that cooperative and patient effort will succeed in the long run. I am confident that the States, generally speaking, and the Ministers in those States and the people themselves are as keen as most of us in this Parliament to protect the National Estate. In fact, in many ways they have moved further ahead of the Australian Government where it has a direct responsibility in their own territories. When we have completed law provisions- and I hope there will be complementary law provisions and that there will be some uniformity at some stage to protect the National Estate from pillage and wilful destruction- our battle will have been largely won. 
The other matter which the Opposition is concerned about is that of compensation. The other important amendment to be moved by the Opposition in the Committee stage deals with the compensation paid to the private owner of a place which is added to a list or entered in a register. This approach surely is quite necessary. It is not unique; in fact compensation provisions are quite common in British law. It is surely only justice to ensure that no one person bears disproportionately a share of the cost of the preservation of the National Estate. Take the case of a young couple who may buy an old home in an old suburb in Sydney or Melbourne. It could well turn out that an old terrace house, an old home or homestead happens to be a place of considerable historical interest. An action group may determine that this home should be placed on a list or in a register, and once this is done it has an effect upon the value of that property in that it limits the area of transaction in respect of sale or disposal and could put the individual concerned in an invidious situation. I think the question of compensation as a matter of common justice needs to be looked at very closely. There is no provision for it in the Bill and it may be difficult to administer but it is an area which the Opposition feels the Government should look at closely between now and the passage of the Bill in the Senate. 
It is my understanding that the administration of the National Estate programs will remain in the departments which administer them. If this is so, the Commission should not grow into another bureaucratic machine. It should remain as a small, highly skilled and issue-directed professional group of people expert in this field of science. The Commission should therefore be a policy and advisory body arranging and sponsoring research, giving advice to the Government of the day on matters relating to the preservation of the National Estate and leaving the detailed administration to other departments and agencies, because if it becomes bogged down in administrative problems it will lose its direction and its real purpose. 
The Commission will be called upon to give its views before important decisions are taken. It should have full and unfettered powers to report its views publicly. It will prepare reports and these are to be tabled in the Parliament. The Commission will require the services of dedicated professional people and they are few and far between in this area of expertise. The Commission could well experience some difficulty in filling these important positions. One of its first tasks could well be to try to develop training programs and education programs in this area. The people who fill the positions will need to be professional people of great dedication and independence and the Commission should have the right to employ its own staff and be completely independent in a real sense so that it can give objective and dispassionate views and advice to the Government. The most important tasks confronting the Commission will be to identify the sites that should be placed in the register, to develop adequate protection laws with the States to protect the sites and to educate the Australian people to protect and respect the National Estate. It may take 15 or 20 years to complete the identification and placing of sites in the register, so I am told. I would not doubt it could be a very long process resulting in a lengthy comprehensive survey. It will take some time to develop a co-ordinated plan and achieve the objectives. 
As I said earlier, one of the Commission's prime responsibilities must surely be to try to achieve co-operation between the Australian Government, its agencies and the States. The national trusts in the States and the museums undoubtedly will provide an excellent starting point. I understand that it will take 3 years to finalise the ecological survey which the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  has initiated in respect of our wet lands. That gives some idea of the totality of time it will take for the program to be achieved. It will be essential for the Government to initiate training programs in order to train enough people to provide the expertise necessary even to restore the buildings which will be placed in the register. The Interim Committee has already done some excellent work and I join the Minister in complimenting on behalf of the Opposition the members of that Committee on the preparatory work they have done. The Opposition extends to the incoming Commission its good wishes for the successful fulfilment of its important objectives and responsibilities. 
Once again I appeal to the Minister and to the Government to give serious and objective consideration to the amendments that I have moved on behalf of the Opposition in the hope that this legislation will get a speedy passage so that the Commission can get on with the job of fulfilling the Minister's dream and the Government's objectives and, I am sure, the wishes of the great majority of intelligent people in this nation. 
I should like to ask a question in respect of paragraph (c) of subclause (1) of clause 10, which states that the Commission may acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal property. Is my assumption that the Commission would use the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act in order to effect an acquisition correct? If not, under what terms would the Commission acquire property, real or personal? 
I want briefly to give my support to the legislation and, in so doing, to extend my compliments to this very skilled Commission which was set up in 1957 by  Sir Robert  Menzies to plan, develop and construct the city of Canberra as the national capital. The record of the National Capital Development Commission has been almost without equal in the world. It is a body of very highly skilled and dedicated men and women. I believe that the amendment to the legislation is timely. I think that the services of the NCDC could well be offered to States in which there is a need for expertise in the area of town planning. It has been suggested in some quarters that perhaps the services of the Commission could be used overseas. I think that before we make such a generous offer it would be wise indeed to ensure that the services are not made available overseas when there is a great shortage of town planners and of people with expertise in this field in Australia. 
In paying my compliment to the NCDC and to its personnel I in no way take away from the efforts of town planners and other organisations that exist in the States. But the NCDC is a very skilled body and I am sure that  Mr Powell  will play a very important part in the reconstruction and development of Darwin. I know that he will have behind him the resources of a very skilled organisation and I wish him and the NCDC well in this new venture. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I want to commend the  chairman  and members of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory for the way in which they have responded to the request by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  and for having brought down, in such a short time, another report to take account of the serious situation that followed cyclone Tracy. But as I understand the  Chairman  of the Committee, it is recommended that the Minister for the Northern Territory and his Department have the complete, overridding co-ordinating authority in the Northern Territory. I could not agree more with this recommendation. As one who had the responsibility for the Northern Territory for nearly 2 years I know how frustrating it can be for the Minister and for the Department to have a number of other Munsters and a number of other departments trying to elbow their way into this area of responsibility. It makes the job completely impossible for the Minister and his Department and it is not in the best interests of the people of the Northern Territory. If I heard the  Chairman  correctly, the Committee has recommended that the Minister and his Department be given this co-ordinating and complete authority in this area. If that is to be the case I am sure the people of the Northern Territory will benefit from it because splitting responsibility and administration creates confusion and is not in the best interests of the people of the Northern Territory. If that is the recommendation I commend the Committee. 
-The Opposition appreciates the effort made by the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to accommodate the Opposition's concern that the Commission should, in the exercise of its functions, ensure adequate consultation and cooperation with the States. Last night in my speech on the motion that the Bill be read a second time I tried to demonstrate why it was necessary for the Commission to have mandatory responsibility to confer with the States, particularly in regard to such matters as the development of lists and registers. The point is that if the Commission decides that a place in a State should be placed on a register, that action does not really protect that place from anything other than action taken by the Commonwealth or by the State which could have direct Commonwealth involvement. There are a great number of places which are on registers in the States and which should be on the national register. I have with me a note from the Western Australian Minister for Justice. It refers to clause 29, but it does have a bearing on the point that I made last night and, I think, the point that is accommodated in this amendment. The note reads: 
The purposes contained in this clause remain unclear, although it can be argued that the over-riding duty imposed on the Minister may be beyond his power. It appears to refer only to items actually on the register, and does not appear to report on items which may be considered to have sufficient importance to warrant inclusion on the register. 
He goes on to say that of course there are a number of places and sites in the States that could well be included in the national register. So I think that, if the Australian Government and the departments concerned approach their task with a degree of co-operation and consultation, the States will very readily assist the Commission in its job of completing its register of known sites and places that should in fact be included in it. I have not had as much time as I would have liked to study this amendment but on behalf of the Opposition I would think that the amendment moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development does accommodate the point that I made last night on behalf of the Opposition. The Opposition circulated an amendment to clause 7 which reads: 
In the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers the Commission shall, where it is appropriate to do so, consult with the States. 
The Minister has moved to insert: 7a. The Commission shall, in the performance of its functions in relation to any matter, and so far as it considers appropriate having regard to the nature of the matter, consult with Departments and authorities of the States, local government authorities and community and other organisations. 
On the face of it that amendment is acceptable to the Opposition. It covers the point of concern that I expressed last night on behalf of the Opposition. I thank the Ministers concerned for their co-operation in this matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 10- by leave- taken together. 
-On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
In sub-clause (1) omit paragraph (c), substitute the following paragraphs: "(c) not more than 1 Commissioner from each State, nominated by the Minister after consultation with the appropriate Minister of the State concerned; and "(d) not more than 6 other Commissioners. ". 
This is a further attempt to ensure that there is a degree of consultation and co-operation by the Minister concerned in the appointment of commissioners who will have the advisory function and the essential contact with the States in trying to ensure a general approach to the protection of the National Estate. I know that the Government understands this position and proposes to move another amendment. I am not at liberty to accept the foreshadowed amendment at this stage. However, the Opposition will look at the situation later in the Senate. There is a phrase in the foreshadowed amendment which causes me some concern and without consultation with my colleagues I could not accept it. The phrase 'so far as he considers appropriate' still leaves the Minister with far too much flexibility. It could be that the Minister may decide that it is not appropriate to confer with one State, for a reason best known to him, on the appointment of a person from that State. Of course should this happen, the State concerned would take umbrage and regard this as an insult, and we would find that the authorities of that State would not co-operate to the extent that they should in order to achieve the co-operative effort to protect the National Estate. There is an advantage in the foreshadowed amendment of the Government. It gives consideration to the Northern Territory, which the Opposition did not conceive in its amendment. However, I shall proceed to press the Opposition amendment as circulated and give an undertaking to the Government that when the Bill goes before the Senate further consideration will be given to the suggestion contained in the amendment foreshadowed by the Government. 
I move: 
After clause 22, insert the following new clause: 22a.  (  1 ) Where a person has an interest in the whole or a part of a place and either- 
his interest is injuriously affected by the entry of a place on a list or the register; or 
he suffers damage or incurs expenditure in respect of that interest as a result of the entry on a list or register- he shall be entitled to receive such compensation as is just in the circumstances. 
Where a person is entitled to compensation in accordance with sub-section (1), Australia is liable to pay to him such compensation as is determined by agreement between the person and the Minister or in the absence of agreement by action by that person against Australia in the Supreme Court of the State or a Territory of Australia where the place is located. 
The Supreme Courts of the States are invested with federal jurisdiction and jurisdiction is conferred on the Supreme Courts of the Territories to hear and determine any action brought by a person against Australia in any of those courts under sub-section (2). '. 
There is a very strong reason why the Government should give serious consideration to ensuring that the individual in possession of a place, a site, or an area that has historic importance and should be registered and placed in a national register may have that possession preserved for posterity. In the process of listing such a place in a register or recording such a place on a list, the individual concerned should not be expected to pay a disproportionate cost of having his place, his site or his building entered in a register. I cite an example of a young couple who for instance might buy an old home in Balmain. They might pay $30,000 or $60,000 for it. An action group might find that that old home has an historic value to Australia and that in fact it should be listed in a national register. If the Commission does its job, it will confer with the State concerned and if the State gives its agreement, the property then becomes listed in a register. If the States pass complementary legislation to this Bill, as I hope that they would do, the owner of that property could well be very seriously financially disadvantaged because the value of that building, the value of that site, the value of that area would be lowered as a result of its reduced saleability. Under the legislation as it now stands, the Commonwealth could not buy the property and use it for another purpose, but the State could. If there is complementary legislation of course that will stop any action in the State to use the property that that person may have bought in good faith as a residence, hoping at the same time that he may gain some capital benefit against inflation and other factors. 
This is a provision which is not usually found in legislation within Australia. It is common in British legislation, and I believe that there are provisions in the United States of America and in Canada to protect the individual in such a circumstance. I hope that the Government will see the wisdom of protecting an individual who may be holding an area or a site as private property which in fact should be listed and kept for posterity. Of course there are powers of acquisition. The Government may determine to purchase the property, but in the report of the Interim Committee which was tabled in the Parliament last week, the Interim Committee put acquisition as being the last alternative that the Commission should consider in trying to preserve or protect the national estate. I hope that the Government sees the wisdom, and I hope that it sees that it is a matter of natural human justice that some provision of this type should be placed in the legislation to protect an individual. A White Paper was brought down in the House of Commons by a Labour Government some three or four years ago on this very issue. It involved the new town developments which were taking place around Britain to ensure that just compensation was paid to property owners and to people who were in the way of new developments. I think that this sort of principal needs to be adopted in all legislation of this type. I commend it to the Government for its earnest consideration. 
-In passing I want to comment upon the valuable contribution made by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  who has just drawn a disgusting issue to the attention of the House. What is so disturbing is that certain sections of the Australian community are flirting with an organisation that has a most cruel and murderous record; an organisation that could well bring about great distress, if not a serious war, in the Middle East. The people who are flirting with this organisation are those who began the great flirt with those people who brought on the confrontation in South East Asia. I speak of those terrorists and insurgents who set about to overthrow by force regimes in South Vietnam and elsewhere. The people of Australia need to be aware of the existence of people in the Australian community who will go to any lengths to try to achieve disruption in our community and in the world society. I think we are indebted to the honourable member for Perth for awakening this Parliament, and I hope the Australian people, to what is going on in regard to the Palestine Liberation Organisation at the present time. 
I want to devote most of my attention this morning to the disastrous record of the Whitlam Government since coming to power, particularly in the economic field. After less than 3 years of Labor Government the Australian people's living standards are trailing behind those of other nations with similar economies who are members of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The poor productive performance of Australians under the Labor 
Government should be a cause of serious concern to most people. Australians are already poorer than the more productive Americans, Canadians, Swedes, Danes, Swiss, Germans, Frenchmen and Belgians. The reasons for the relative decline in Australia's living standards, despite a greater increase in money-wage rates, are not difficult to seek. Government policies have destroyed our productive performance. Let no one assume that production is not the source from which living standards can improve. Real income per head equals real production per head. People will not produce unless they have the incentive to work. What incentive have the Australian people to work? What incentive is there for the average worker to work overtime? What incentive is there for the average producer to produce more when in fact taxation bleeds the rewards of his efforts? Inflation and arbitrary redistribution of incomes destroys the availability of productive capital. The Government's irresponsible and inflationary policies have eroded the value of people's retained real earnings and savings. Unless the fiscal and monetary madness of this Government ceases, we will witness the complete breakdown of the economy and our system. 
In a little over 2 years the Whitlam Government increased its spending by an enormous 75 per cent. There were some wise people during the election campaign of 1972 who queried where the money would come from to achieve the promises that were made. The Government is financing this expenditure not from earned wealth or production; it is financing its spending splurge by inducing record inflation, by putting incomes up into higher income tax scales and resorting to the printing press. In this financial year the Government will have increased its spending by at least 45 per cent. This spending has placed an intolerable taxation burden on the people and on the private sector and has led to an extraordinary increase in the rate of monetary expansion. The Government has allowed expenditure to race ahead by the simple but irresponsible expedient of deficit financing. I would be surprised if there is a section of the business communitythe productive sector or the industrial sector- that can face the future with confidence that will permit investment and new capital expenditure on plant and equipment. 
The figures, of course, show the real truth of the situation. New capital expenditure on plant and equipment by private businesses has fallen from 3.4 per cent in the March quarter of last year to minus 1.6 per cent in the March quarter of this year. The stagnation of investment expenditure is evident when one considers that those figures take no account of rises in prices over the same period. Let us look at some of the statistical facts of the Government's disastrous administration. In 1972, when this Government came to power, inflation was at a rate of 4.5 per cent. It is now 17.6 per cent or more. In 1973 the rate was 13.2 per cent and in 1974 it was 16.3 per cent. How does this compare with the inflation rates of other comparable countries? The latest statistics show that only the United Kingdom with an inflation rate of 19.8 per cent is ahead of Australia. The inflation rates of some other countries are as follows: New Zealand 12.6 per cent, Canada 11.8 per cent, the United States of America 11.1 per cent, France 13.9 per cent, Germany 5.8 per cent and Japan 13.9 per cent. So Australia is all but one heading the list. 
In 1972 when Labor came to power the number of people unemployed represented 1.77 per cent of the work force. It has risen year by year until it now stands at 4.7 per cent of the work force. In 1972 when Labor came to power the overdraft interest rate on borrowings was 7.75 per cent. Today it is 1 1.5 per cent. In 1972 the interest on housing loans was 6.25 per cent. It is now 10 per cent. Yet the Government seeks to blame others for this situation. Honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  first said that it was inherited. He then said that it was imported, trying to compare Australia with overseas countries whose inflation has been fanned by the fact that they have had to import overseas oil at prices which have quadrupled in the last 1 8 months. 
We watched the pathetic attempts by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  last year to blame our system, the truth being that he is against the system. Indeed a great number of people in this Government do not want the system to work. The No. 1 objective of the platform of the Australian Labor Party- and the Australian people should really know about this- is: 
The democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange- to the extent necessary to eliminate exploitation and other anti-social features in those fields- in accordance with the principles of action, methods, and progressive reforms set out in this platform. 
Therein lies the answer. The Deputy Prime Minister in his book 'The Quiet Revolution ', said: 
Private ownership of the means of production and the market are the main causes of inequality of power and wealth in Australia and of the harmful consequences that result. 
In his book 'Living with Asia ' he said: 
Labor rejected revolution not only as undesirable but as impracticable. Instead it adopted a policy of 'interference' with the market which would gradually bring about a 'transformation ' of Society. 
The Deputy Prime Minister wrote those words in 1965. In the pursuit of this crazy doctrinaire philosophy, the Whitlam Government has shattered the foundations of the economic system. It has left itself with an impossible task of framing a Budget. If it does not cut Government expenditure it will load a deficit of $6,000m on the shoulders of the Australian people. Australia is in an economic mess. The people are on the brink of great economic and social disarray. Is it little wonder that a government which has created its own disaster, which has sown the seeds of its own destruction, is now displaying inconsistencies and contradictions in trying to deceive the Australian people as to the truth of the real situation. 
It does not matter to what field one turns, whether it be the Government's environmental policy, economic policy or tariff policy, the Government's record is one of confusion and deceit. The Government's only problem will be to remain in office long enough to achieve its objectives. I do not believe that it will remain in office for long enough to do this. I believe that the people have had enough of the deceit, double standards and doctrinaire philosophies of those who are out to destroy an economic system that has given the Australian people such a high standard of living. Why would any nation want to destroy a system which has served the people well? 
I rise on behalf of the Opposition to oppose this Bill for a number of reasons, some of which have already been presented to the House during this debate and during previous debates. In Victoria, as in the rest of the Commonwealth, a redistribution is not necessary according to the Constitution. If one examines the overall Commonwealth situation the Australian Labor Party polled 49.3 per cent of the votes in 1974 and won 52 per cent of the seats. So there is no need for a redistribution. It is a national disgrace that this Government is not as assiduous, purposeful and determined about tackling the massive economic problems of this country as it is about taking measures to entrench itself in power. 
-You look after Fraser Island and Queensland. If the Government could manage the economy without inflicting such enormous harm and damage on so many Australians, it would not have to resort to every tactic in the book in order to try to force changes in the electoral laws to help the Labor Party. If the Government could put Australians back to work it might not have to use unprecedented means to get its unfair, unjust and undemocratic electoral proposals through this Parliament. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  does not even blush at the impropriety of the Government in bringing electoral proposals before the House on the very day that the High Court began hearing a challenge by 3 States to the Bill on which the proposals are based. 
From a constitutional aspect, a redistribution is unnecessary. Redistributions will be required, undoubtedly, after the next census. So one does not have to be very intelligent to see why this whole exercise is taking place. Of course, it is crook. Government members are becoming terribly upset because they do not like the truth. Nothing expresses the Government's motives more clearly than the way in which the Prime Minister has abandoned his principles on electoral redistributions. A few years ago he was saying that a 20 per cent tolerance enrolment was perfectly reasonable and that this provision should be enshrined in the Constitution so that no one could tamper with it. But today, the Prime Minister, faced with electoral disaster at the hands of a disillusioned and hurt electorate, came into this debate and threw away his belief in a fair and truly democratic electoral system in a desperate effort to hang on in office. That is what it is all about. 
No resonable person would claim that the tasks involved in representing very small electorates and very large electorates are the same or that those tasks represent the same degree of effort or difficulty. The Labor Party claims this. I repeat that no reasonable person would claim that this is the case. It is not democratic to have virtually equal numbers of voters in all electorates when electorates vary so much. We are chasing an elusive concept of one vote one value. There would not be a man in this country who thinks about the issue who would not agree with this proposition. If we wanted one vote one value in the strictest sense, we would have a census today, an electoral redistribution tomorrow and an election the next day. We are living in a very mobile society and, of course, there are changes in the distribution of population as between one electorate and another. 
It is foolish to ignore the very real problems of the poor people in Bourke and to think that they are as close to attention and to social welfare as the poor people in Bondi are. Where is the humanity of this Government- this allegedly humane Government that came to power in 1972? It is not concerned about the people who live in remote locations or the people who live in isolated communities. It is not concerned with any objective other than to contrive a situation that will keep it in power. The electoral laws which had existed for 70-odd years, since Federation, and which were supported by successive Labor governments- fair Labor governmentshad stood the test of time and trial. But this Government has decided that it is not prepared to trust the system that served all political parties until the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his Party changed their view. 
On numerous occasions figures have been given to demonstrate the number of seats won by the Government and the Opposition compared with the number of votes gained. I wish to reiterate them. In 1974 the Labor Party polled 49.3 per cent of the votes and it won about 52 per cent of the seats. What the Government is saying to this Parliament and to the Australian people is: We want a redistribution that will allow us to obtain only 45 per cent of the vote and maintain our present number of seats and our position in power. We want a system that will allow the Liberal Party and the National Country Party to poll between them 54.5 per cent of the vote and yet remain in Opposition'. This is what it is all about. The people of Australia need to know that all the huffing, puffing and bluffing that is going on about a double dissolution and so on will not scare the Liberal Party or the National Country Party or bluff the Australian people. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government subscribe to the United Nations Declaration on Territorial Asylum adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 14 December 1967- Resolution 23 13 (XXII). 
If so, will this be applied to (a) supporters of former President Allende in Chile and (b) supporters of former President Thieu in South Vietnam who seek asylum in Australia from persecution by the current regimes in those countries. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons in (a) the Australian Capital Territory and (b) the Northern Territory were sentenced to terms of imprisonment during each of the last 3 years. 
What were the offences for which these persons were « convicted. 
How many persons were convicted in respect of each type of offence. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in the implementation of the area re-arrangement of the telecommunications section of the Postmaster-General 's Department. 
If no progress has been made at this stage, is it intended that regional re-arrangements will be left to any proposed Commission. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, upon notice: 
Is his Department responsible for the administration of the National Air Monitoring Program in order to establish a base line monitoring station m Australia; if not, why not. 
What sum has been spent on this program to 3 1 March 1975. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
When did Dillingham-Murphyores Minerals begin negotiating with him and his Department to secure approval to negotiate overseas sales for the minerals which were to be mined on Fraser Island. 
Did the Department observe the environmental impact procedures that were laid down by the Government during January 1973. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
Will he make available the details of the inquiry and assessments made prior to the decision to allow the Manjimup Woodchip Industry in Western Australia to proceed. 
Were he and his Department completely satisfied with the procedures adopted and the way in which the inquiry was carried out. 
Is he satisfied that sufficient consideration was given to environmental aspects before the decision was made. 
-Needless to say, the Opposition supports this legislation. I think it is worth looking at the Bill which provides for a 5 per cent levy on the sale of shorn wool which was imposed for the current marketing season as part of the wool marketing arrangements agreed upon last year between the Government and the Australian wool industry. I wish to emphasise once again that the Australian woolgrower is not receiving a handout in a real sense under this scheme. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in his second reading speech quite rightly said that the special levy of 5 per cent was originally introduced last September to apply for a period from 2 September 1974 to 30 June 1975. It was additional to the tax of 2.75 per cent being collected as woolgrowers' contributions towards the financing of programs of wool research and promotion and the administration of marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. The Minister went on to say: 
The proceeds of the special levy are channelled to the Market Support Fund established under the Wool Industry Act (No. 2) of 1974. The purpose of that Fund is to meet any losses incurred in the operation of the approved wool marketing arrangements. 
So I join with my colleague, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  in refuting, I hope once and for all, the allegation that one reads so often in the metropolitan Press and elsewhere that this industry is in fact receiving a great handout. The industry has worked with this Government, as it worked with the former government, to try to develop a scheme whereby, with a guarantee of the Government, it could raise funds to try to arrive at a stable floor price. 
The Australian wool industry remains as one of Australia's most important export industries. It is an industry which until recently has remained largely unprotected. It is an industry which exports nearly 90 per cent of its product to overseas markets. It has to sell on a world market that bears no relationship to internal cost of production. It is an industry that is concentrated on efficient production. It is an industry that has had to survive against the pressures of inflation, seasonal fluctuations, fluctuating incomes and fluctuating world market prices. The industry has a proud record. In spite of the difficulties that the growers have faced, they have shown a resilience that few producers in other industries have displayed. It is little wonder that so many wool growers are critical of the tariff and protection policies that have evolved in this country. Here was a body of men and women who were prepared to stand on their own feet, while others sought protection and handouts from the governments of the day. Events have overtaken this commendable attitude amongst woolgrowers. With inflation now raging at its present level- probably 17 per cent, and possibly more- when one takes into account the higher prices of inputs, the cost of inflation to the industry could well exceed 20 per cent. 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  is properly concerned by the Cabinet leak of the crazy decision to reduce the floor price of wool to 200c a kilo. While such a leak should not have occurred, it was probably in the best interests of the Government, the wool industry, the national economy and certainly in the best interests of those in the Labor Party who could see it as a crazy decision. If the Government had not responded to public pressure it would have pulled the rug from under the feet of its own undertaking to the Australian Wool Corporation. At present, the Corporation has a stockpile of 1.7 million bales of wool bought in at a price of no less than 250c a kilo. The value of this stockpile could have been depressed by an amount of $ 115m or more had the Caucus supported the Cabinet decision to reduce the floor price to 200c a kilo. The honourable member for Macarthur gave some history of the development of the Australian Wool Corporation. He said quite rightly in legislative terms, that it had its genesis on 4 November 1970. But the Australian Wool Corporation owes its origin to the great struggles that took place within the industry over a long period of years. The struggle was due to 2 differing philosophies within the industrythose who sought a free trade economy without government involvement, and those who gave up the fight against tariff reform and sought some protection or government involvement. 
It was in March 1971 that the turning point in the industry attitudes surfaced. The now historic Moree wool meeting on 27 March- Moree happens to be my home town- attracted 2700 wool growers. I had the honour of playing some part in that meeting. Indeed, I was  chairman  of it. It was at this meeting that 2700 wool growers overwhelmingly voted for a single marketing authority to handle the sale of the Australian wool cUp. Several of us had worked to achieve this objective, and I want to place on record the name of one,  Mr Ronald  Hunter, of Moree, almost a legendary figure in wool pOlitiCS, because he was the prime mover for this meeting and one who played such a big role in bringing the people to that meeting. He also played a very big part in obtaining a common front among woolgrower organisations. As a member of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, he played a big part in achieving a consensus amongst those people. 
Then, of course, it was the Minister for Primary Industry of the day, the right honourable J. D. Anthony, who swiftly responded to this new attitude within the industry, and so the Aus.tralian Wool Commission was established in November 1971. The BUI was supported by the Labor Party in this House at that time. Since then hundreds of thousands of man hours have been devoted to refining a modern marketing corporation, and hundreds of people have played their part in developing a marketing corporation that is quite unique in marketing such a product. 
I want to refer briefly to one incident that I think was crucial to the Australian wool industry. It occurred in November 1971 when the McMahon Government resolved to underwrite a loan for $30m to the Australian Wool Corporation to enable it to continue to maintain a basic floor price. At that time the Australian Wool Commission had bought in a stockpile of almost one million bales of wool, and there was not an editorial or a national newspaper in this country at that time which was not opposed to that decision. They saw this monster wool stockpile as being a threat to the Australian economy, and the pressures that were brought upon the Government of that day were absolutely unbelievable. We had the International Wool Textile Organisation- IWTO- sending deputations and delegations to this country to try to persuade the Government not to underwrite this industry for another cent. 
However, as the honourable member for Macarthur has said, from the day the McMahon Government gave that guarantee to the Australian Wool Commission, as it was then known, the Australian wool market and the world wool market began to rise, and the Commission did not call upon one cent of that guarantee until the more recent collapse in the wool market. So it has been a commendable scheme. It was a commendable idea. Let everyone understand that the taxpayers of Australia are not paying the price in sustaining this market price for the Aus.tralian wool cUp. 
The Australian wool industry still is one of the most important industries to the economy of Australia. It is an industry that generates great wealth and provides overseas revenue that is necessary for the internal growth of this economy. It is an industry that has not depended upon handouts and subsidies to the extent that many industries have. It is an essential industry and one that should be honoured rather than denigrated in its times of need. I would hope that the Australian people would at last see the importance of this arrangement and recognise that the undertaking that is given to the industry in accordance with the present marketing plan is not being paid for out of the taxpayer's pocket. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What action has the Government taken to verify reports of retribution killings in South Vietnam, particularly the reported slaughter of mixed-race children. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he provide an immediate answer to Question No. 2640; ifnot, why not 
-Today is World Environment Day. What an appropriate day for the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Bill to be debated in this House. It is a Bill to establish the legislative machinery to protect the Great Barrier Reef as a significant part of the Australian heritage. If reports are correct the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  will be transferred from his Environment portfolio today, on World Environment Day. If this is so and it does happen, it is a most unfortunate event. The Minister has done an excellent job in this field and deserves much commendation and praise for the efforts that he has made and the cooperative actions he has taken with the community at large and with the Opposition since he has been the Minister. I commend the Minister for what he has done. 
The immediate objective of this Bill is to establish an authority to examine the entire Barrier Reef region to determine which sections of the region should be proclaimed as part of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park, and decide appropriate uses for its various sections. The ultimate objective, of course, is to protect the world's largest known assemblage of living corals and associated organisms, which have formed in the 100 000 square miles or 2 600 000 hectares of the Great Barrier Reef province. I would remind honourable members that in the report of the Inquiry into the National Estate, the Reef was described as 'the most important feature of the Australian coastline'. The report continues: 
It is the only one unquestionably accepted by international authorities as a portion of the World Heritage. As such, the responsibility of Australia in regard to the Great Barrier Reef is crucial. 
The Committee 's conclusions were:  ... the Australian Government and, insofar as its responsibility may be decided, the Queensland State Government, have an overriding responsibility to the world for the preservation, management and presentation of what is a heritage of unquestionable world stature. Any and all threats to the Reef should be avoided at all costs and prevented by all available means. 
The report goes on to say: 
We see great merit in the recommendation to us by the Great Barrier Reef Committee and also contained in the submission to them by the Royal Commissions on Petroleum Drilling in Great Barrier Reef Waters, that legislative action be taken to set up a statutory authority or Commission, possibly by the Australian Government, and State 'mirror ' legislation, as an agency of the Crown, for the administration of the Great Barrier Reef province as a whole. 
I have quoted at some length from the National Estate report because I regard it as being a landmark in Australia's environmental history and a monument of industry, perception and integrity. It is well on its way to becoming part of the national heritage itself. The Bill before the House is the response of the Government to the challenge so clearly defined in the passages I have quoted. The Minister said in his second reading speech: 
The Australian Government ... has decided that protection of our unique Barrier Reef is of paramount importance to Australia and the world. 
The Opposition supports this attitude wholeheartedly and congratulates the Minister on the motivation that has led him to introduce the Bill. We disagree with some of the existing provisions in the Bill, but that does not mean that we disagree with the total concept of a Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. On the contrary, the Opposition Parties regard the Great Barrier Reef as potentially a marine park of world significance. It is our policy that the Federal Government should co-operate with and assist the Queensland Government in the declaration and preservation of the Great Barrier Reef as a marine national park. Our prime concern at the moment is to examine the Bill before the House in order to ascertain whether it is a suitable instrument to achieve the commendable objectives which all parties in this Parliament share. 
I will comment on the Bill in more detail later, but first of all I point to a most remarkable feature of the Minister's second reading speech: Not once did he mention, either by implication or by name, the State of Queensland. Honourable members will recall that the passages which I quoted from in the Hope report refer to the joint responsibility of the Federal and State governments and speak of legislative action by the Federal Government and mirror legislation by the Queensland Government. Admittedly, there is contention about the relative powers of the States and the Commonwealth in the field of the seas and submerged lands. The Seas and Submerged Lands Bill was assented to on 4 December 1973. As honourable members know, the legislation has been challenged in the High Court, but the Court has not given judgment in that matter. 
Whether the High Court will decide that State jurisdiction ends at the 3-mile limit or at the high water mark is a matter of conjecture. One thing is certain, however, and that is that the Queensland Government has considerable powers and, whatever the findings of the High Court, will continue to have considerable powers in areas which are included in the Great Barrier Reef province, as delineated in the Schedule to the Bill. Incidentally, the Great Barrier Reef province is a phrase that I have borrowed from the report of the Royal Commission into Petroleum Drilling in the area of the Great Barrier Reef, known as the Wallace Commission. It is used by the commissioners to describe the whole  2Yi  million hectares of the Reef area. The State of Queensland owns all the foreshores bordering on the Reef province and it owns all the hundreds of islands included in it. It is impossible to conceive of any plan of management for any area of the province which the proposed Authority may wish to declare a national park and which would be able to function efficiently without the cooperation of the Queensland Government. 
One of the key points in the management plan must be the prevention of pollution. Where is pollution likely to come from? According to  Dr John  Knauss, the dean of the Graduate School of Oceanography at the University of Rhode Island, marine pollution comes from 4 main sources. Firstly, it comes from the man-built outfallssewerage, industrial effluent and the likewhich are a clear State responsibility. Secondly, it comes from the ocean dumping and vessel pollution which is a responsibility part State, part Federal and part international. Thirdly, it comes from rivers and estuaries- a State responsibility. 
Fourthly and finally, it comes from the atmosphere, which is more of an international responsibility than anyone else's responsibility. No anti-pollution measures in the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park can be effective without the co-operation and goodwill of the Queensland Government. For example, consider the islands in the Great Barrier Reef province. There are hundreds of them and they all belong to Queensland. One of the functions of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, as laid down in clause 7 of the Bill, is to recommend areas that should be declared to be parts of the Marine Park and to prepare zoning plans for the Marine Park. What will the Authority do with the islands? Will it try to exclude them from the Park because it cannot exercise authority over them without the co-operation and goodwill of the Queensland Government? Given a reasonable spirit of compromise and give and take, I can assure the Minister, following discussions chat I have had in the last week or so with the Queensland authorities, that co-operation and goodwill will be forthcoming. 
The House may not be aware that the State of Queensland for years has been movingalthough perhaps not fast enough- in the direction foreshadowed in this Bill; that all the islands in the Great Barrier Reef province have been declared sanctuaries; and that most of the major ones, including Heron Island and Green Islandthe only 2 inhabited reef cays- have been declared national parks. At the same time, the State Government has declared fisheries habitat reserves below the high water mark, which have had a major and favourable environmental impact. I think I have said enough about the Queensland responsibilities and the Queensland achievements to convince the House that it is collaboration- not confrontation- that we all must seek. Frankly, I was disappointed that this did not come out in the Minister's second reading speech. In his Press conference on 23 May the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that he had written to the Queensland Premier at least 6 months ago, suggesting that a joint board or commission run the national park and that he would be disappointed if he did not receive the Premier's co-operation. The Bill, as it stands, makes some gesture in the direction of securing that co-operation, but the Opposition felt that it did not go far enough. Clause 10 (3), of the Bill, as it stands, is worded in this way: 
Before choosing the persons to be appointed as the first members or choosing a person to be appointed to fill a vacancy in the membership of the Authority, the Australian Government shall, in writing, invite the Queensland Government to consult with it concerning the appointments or appointment, as the case may be, and an appointment shall not be made until agreement has been reached between the Governments as to the persons or person to be appointed, as the case may be, or the expiration of the period of 3 months after the invitation, whichever is the earlier. 
The Opposition felt that that clause, as it stood, had all the elements of confrontation in it. We felt that either the appointments should be jointly recommended by the Governor-General or the Queensland Government should be given the statutory right to appoint in its own right at least one member to the Authority. It was against this background that, as the Opposition shadow Minister for Environment and in association with the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  the former distinguished SolicitorGeneral, I commenced negotiations with the Minister for Environment to give more consideration to Queensland in the personnel to be appointed to the all-important Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. 
Similarly, as the Bill is drafted, the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee is to consist of one member of the Authority and not fewer than 12 other members, with Queensland having the right to nominate not more than 3 members. This is an important committee. It is important to have on it representation from the various Commonwealth departments and it is even more important to have on it people with special qualifications, such as biologists, marine life specialists, ecologists and other people with scientific qualifications; but surely it is important to have people with specialist knowledge nominated by the Queensland Government, people who live in the area, people who know the area and people who are qualified to advise on the practical problems from first hand experience of the region. The Opposition felt that the Bill, as it stood, did not consider the full rights and the full needs of Queensland's involvement in the exercise of powers within the Park itself. After consultation, the Minister has endeavoured, in his usual co-operative and sensible manner, to meet our concern. As a consequence, the Government will be moving amendments to provide that not less than one-third of the membership of the Authority and the Consultative Committee be nominated by the Queensland Government in its own right. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension for luncheon I was making the point, on behalf of the Opposition, that it is very important to try to ensure that we obtain the complete co-operation and involvement of the Queensland Government and the Queensland authorities to ensure that the preservation of the Great Barrier Reef does flow from the legislative provisions of this Bill. I was talking about the need to ensure that there was direct Queensland Government representation upon the Authority that is to be established under the provisions of this Bill to administer the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. We were dealing with the Consultative Committee which, under the terms of the Bill, will have 3 nominees from the Queensland Government. The Minister for Conservation  (Dr Cass)  and the Government have agreed to amend the legislation to give the same ratio of membership on the Consultative Committee as Queensland will have on the Authority itself in accordance with an amendment to be moved. 
I wish to refer to another area of the legislation that was the cause of some concern to the Opposition and that is, that in clause 47 there are powers that are extremely wide, as indeed they need to be. They are powers that apply to inspectors who will have the job of policing the area and the region to ensure that damage is not done to the reef from one activity or another. But the powers that the inspector is to have are quite enormous. The inspector will be able to seize a vessel or an article and take it into custody. We felt that there was not provision in the Act to compensate an owner of a vessel or an article that was seized wrongfully- an owner who was not in contravention of the Act. So we sought cooperation from the Government, asking it to accept an amendment that would make it necessary for compensation to be made in the event of an article or vessel having been seized wrongfully. This has been accepted. It will mean now that an inspector will be able to take into custody a vessel or an article for a period of 7 days, and if he holds it longer than that, and if it is proved that the owner of that vessel or article was not in contravention of the Act, then the owner will be able to claim compensation for the inconvenience and/or the loss that might have been occasioned as a result of a wrongful seizure. 
There could well be an objection by the Queensland Government even to the amendment which the Opposition is supporting. Queensland, I suspect, will claim that it should have the right to have equal representation on the Authority and equal representation on the Consultative Committee. If we do not achieve the type of co-operation that we are setting out to achieve, as a result of the limited Queensland Government representation, on behalf of the Opposition I give an undertaking that should we return to office we would be prepared to renegotiate these provisions with the Queensland 
Government to give it equal representation on both the Authority and the Consultative Committee. We do this because it is necessary to ensure that there is smooth and co-operative action. There is also objection from the Queensland Government to the wide regulationmaking powers. We do not feel that we should hold up the legislation in order to alter the regulation-making powers in the Bill. We want to see this Bill passed through this House and the Senate today so that it will come into operation as soon as possible. But if in the course of time it is shown that the wide regulation-making powers, if they are used and cause friction and problems in the general administration of the park and bring about confrontation between this Government and the Queensland Government and the local authorities, we would, when in government, review those areas. I think I should conclude by saying that whilst we have the reservations that I have mentioned, the Opposition welcomes the Bill. We do not intend to delay its passage. I should like to quote again from the report of the Interim Committee on the National Estate to re-emphasise for the sake of all members of the Government and for all members of this House. I quote these remarks because they are worth putting on the record. The Committee states: 
We also strongly believe that the  most  effective conservation movement will be one which has deep roots in local communities. We have therefore agreed that policies and programs for the protection and management of heritage sites must be developed in close co-operation with the States and local government 
It is only because we feel that the present Bill does not give full expression to the necessity of achieving this co-operation that I have expressed these reservations on behalf of the Opposition. However, having said that, I want to stress again that the Bill represents an excellent first step to preserve the reef. As time goes on and deficiencies become clear, as indeed they will because this is the first time that an authority has even been set up to try to manage and to protect a marine park; of course there will be deficiencies and problems- I would expect that this Government or our own Parties, if in government, would quickly move to try to overcome those deficiencies by amending this Act. 
We commend the objectives and also the motivation and the diligence and the cooperative attitude of the Minister for Environment and his Department for the way in which they have co-operated with me and with the Opposition in these and in other matters. I hope that the reports that are circulating that the Minister is to be removed from his portfolio are untrue. I think the Government would be most unwise to remove  Dr Cass  from this position. I say that sincerely, because he is seeking to achieve the sort of co-operative community involvement in matters affecting our environment that is needed. He is to be commended for it, and I wish him well with this legislation. The Opposition is anxious to give it speedy passage. 
asked the* Minister for Labor and Immigration the following questions, upon notice: 
Did the former Attorney-General have an American citizen on his personal Ministerial staff. 
If so, what was her name. 
) Did she have a visitor's visa. 
If so, was it extended recently. 
Is she still being employed in Australia while holding a visitor's visa. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What is the anticipated expenditure on the Isolated Children's Allowance Scheme during 1974-75. 
In view of the rural recession that he mentioned in reply to a question in the House on 21 April 1975, will the Government increase the annual allowance as a matter of urgency to at least compensate parents for the inflation that has occurred since December 1972. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What research is being undertaken in Australia into cancer inducing chemicals being used in food processing and preservation. 
Will he ensure that any such research undertaken in Australia is co-ordinated with similar work being carried out in the United States of America. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
What national parks, reserves and wildlife sanctuaries have been taken over by the National Parks and Wildlife Service. 
Which areas is the Service now planning to take over from existing Services and reserve boards. 
What stage have discussions reached with the Northern Territory Reserves Board regarding its future and the future of its members and employees. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
What is the anticipated staff ceiling for the National Parks and Wildlife Service for the years ending 30 June 1975,1976 and 1977. 
Will he provide details of the positions being established in respect of the Service. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
WW he table: 
the letters that were written by his Department on 2 1 November 1974 to the Department of the Environment seeking that Department's views on sand mining on Fraser Island; 
the Department of the Environment's reply dated 22 November 1974; 
the letters that were exchanged between the Minister for Minerals and Energy and himself relating to Dillingham-Murphyores Minerals' application to negotiate overseas contracts for minerals mined on Fraser Island; and 
the letter the Minister for Minerals and Energy wrote to Dillingham-Murphyores Minerals on 13 December 1974 approving the contracts; if not, does he support the principle of open government. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
Is his Department responsible for the public environmental awareness program as shown in Budget Paper No. 1 under the Department of Urban and Regional Development's program; if not, why not. 
What sum has been spent on this program to 3 1 March 1 975, and how has it been spent. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
In view of his reply to my question No. 2397 and his desire to hold discussions with the people of the A.C.T. before making a decision to implement the recommendations of the Joint Committee on the A.C.T., will he also hold discussions with the people or seek their views by referendum before introducing poker machines in the A.C.T.; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
How many officers are currently serving in the Commonwealth Police Force. 
What are the numbers in each rank. 
How many have been recruited since 1 January 1 974. 
How many recruits are currently being trained. 
) What is the duration of the initial training program. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
How many officers are currently serving in the A.C.T. Police Force. 
How many officers are there in each rank. 
How many recruits are currently in the training program. 
What is the duration of the initial training program. 
How many officers have resigned from the A.C.T. Police Force in the last 12 months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
How many officers are currently serving in the Northern Territory Police Force. 
) What are the numbers in each rank. 
How many have been recruited since 1 January 1974. 
How many recruits are currently being trained. 
5 ) What is the duration of the initial training program. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
What co-operation has been achieved with the States to undertake a controlled commercial harvesting and conservation program of the kangaroo. 
How many kangaroos were harvested in Australia during each of the years 1971, 1972, 1973, 1974 and in 1975 to date. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
As the Opposition gave him leave to table the transcripts of the 1971 Mining Wardens Hearing covering leases 101 and 102 on Fraser Island, will he also table the reasons for the Wardens ' recommendations; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
Has his Department or any agency under his control given any financial assistance for the conduct of litigation by private individuals in courts of Australia. 
If so, who were the persons to whom aid was given, and what were the circumstances that justified the financial assistance. 
What has been the financial cost in each case. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What action has been taken to implement the Government's policy of self-determination at Wreck Bay. 
What has the Government done to assist the Aboriginal people at Wreck Bay for whom it has direct responsibility. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the companies named in the answer to my question No. 494 (Hansard, 1 August 1974, page 1042), what sum in public funds was provided to each of these companies by way of (a) grant and (b) loan. 
) What sum is it proposed to provide in 1 974-75. 
Does the Auditor-General audit the accounts of each of these companies. 
If not, are audited accounts published. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
What species of whales are being harvested in Australian waters by Australian based whalers. 
How many whales were killed during each of the years 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973 and 1974. 
Is Australia observing the terms of the International Whaling Commission. 
Is Australia satisfied that the International Whaling Commission is effectively protecting endangered species of the whale; if not, what action is proposed by the Government. 

 Mr Berinson the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only species harvested in Australian Waters by Australian based whalers is the Sperm Whale (Physeter catodon) 

asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) How many public servants were employed in the Department of the Environment and Conservation and agencies responsible to the Department as at 30 June 1973 and 30 June 1974. 
How many does he anticipate will be employed by his Department as at 30 June 1975. 
Will he provide details of the levels of the public servants currently employed in the Department. 
-I ask the Attorney-General: Is it correct that the court in Paraguay which refused extradition of the Bartons did so because it did not consider that the British extradition treaty with Paraguay applied to Australia? Do we rely on British treaties for extradition procedures with a substantial number of other countries? If the Paraguayan decision brings into question extradition arrangements between Australia and other countries, what special steps are being taken to have the Paraguayan court decision reversed or otherwise to overcome this dangerous situation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment. At a recent conference of Nature Conservation Ministers in Canberra, did the State Ministers congratulate the Minister for Environment on the way in which funds had been made available to the States under the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act for the acquisition of land for nature conservation purposes? Did the Minister state that the agreement recognised that the difficulty in financing acquisition of land often involves lengthy negotiations before finality can be achieved? Has the Minister now repudiated this agreement with the States? Will this mean that some of the most fragile and ecologically important areas in Australia cannot be protected and may fall into the hands of subdividers? Is he aware that the proposed national park in Myall Lakes in New South Wales could be destined to be another Lake Pedder or Fraser Island because of the Labor Government's repudiation? 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
What biological surveys are being undertaken in Australia by the States, CSIRO and other agencies intoflora, fauna, reptiles and the associated ecosystem. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
Will he provide the names of consultant firms used by his Department for any purposes whatsoever, and detail any consultants ' work that has been done or is being done. 
What has been the cost of these services to 31 March 1975. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development upon notice: 
1 ) What areas relating to environmental protection does his Department fund through its appropriations. 
Does the Department administer policy in these areas jointly with the Department of Environment or separately. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Have Vietnamese students been told that if they want to bring their relatives to Australia they must guarantee free accommodation for each person for 12 months. 
Have they also been told that they must also guarantee their fares, at the rate of $400 for each adult and $200 for each child. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the international and multi-national conventions and agreements concerning the environment and conservation under the auspices of the United Nations to which Australia is a signatory. 
How many of these have been ratified by Australia. 
Are there any to which Australia is not a signatory; if so, what are they. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  in defence of the Government's Budget, talked about what he regarded as the intellectual dishonesty of speakers on this side of the House in addressing themselves in a critical sense to the economic policies which the Government has followed since it assumed office in 1972. He said that Aus.talia's problem is part of a world-wide problem. Admittedly there is inflation in a great number of countries but most of those countries have suffered a dimension to their inflationary costs that Australia has not suffered, and that has been the high cost of crude oil that they have had to import from the Middle East countries and elsewhere. Due to the foresight of the former Liberal-Country Party Government, crude oil was discovered in Bass Strait, and that field has been supplying Australia with about 70 per cent of its basic oil and petroleum fuel requirements. So it is not fair and it is not being honest to himself or to the Government to try to run away from the fact that the Government itself has largely been responsible for the inflationary problem that we are suffering in Australia today. 
The Whitlam Government sowed the seeds of its own destruction in the Budget of 1973. The economic policies that it has pursued since thenparticularly during 1974- and in this year's Budget will ensure that these seeds will not only germinate but also flourish. Critical as this might be for the Australian Labor Party supporters, it is not as serious as the seeds of destruction it has sown for the thousands of small businessmen, farmers and others involved in smaller industries throughout Australia. The fiscal measures in this Budget will not succeed in restoring confidence and encouraging investment in the private sector. Although an effort has been made to reduce government expenditure, reducing the percentage increase from the record 46 per cent level during 1974-75 to an estimated 23 per cent in this financial year, one can be forgiven for doubting the capacity of the Government to discipline itself to maintain the projected 23 per cent increase in Government expenditure. Last year's Budget provided for a 32 per cent increase, but in fact the end result was an expenditure increase of 46 per cent. What a spending spree! 
The Government is clearly unreliable. It says one thing but it does another. How can one have faith in a government that introduces the equivalent of 3 Budgets in a year and changes Treasurers 3 times in a year? Never before has the country seen such a change in direction and so many Treasurers in a year. The Government certainly has created a record, of which it is not proud. The Government has endeavoured to exhibit restraint in the Budget as part of its call to the unions to act with restraint. The whole fragile concept of wage indexation and the frail foundations upon which the Budget strategy rests are shattered by the failure of the Government to act with restraint. How restrained is a Budget that provides for pay-as-you-earn tax to increase by 43 per cent while wages are expected to rise by 22 per cent? No wonder the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the trade unions and the employees of this country are concerned. They rightly believe that they have been led up the garden path. 
How can a government claim restraint when private income tax amounted to $7,7 14m last year but is expected to amount to $ 10,340m this year, an increase of $2,626m? Company tax is expected to fall by about $200m, but the total tax collection is expected to be $2,426m more than last year. Customs, excise and sales tax will cost an extra $ 1,000m. Increases in postal and telephone charges will amount to $350m. In the next week or so we will begin to feel the pains of this pressure. Clearly, this Budget will increase the Government's share of national resources if it does not achieve the growth rate that it hopefully projects. The changes in tax rates will result in a bigger money grab than if no alteration had been made at all. How can one trust a government that projected a $500m deficit in last year's Budget but ended up with a deficit of $2,500m or more? 
It is little wonder that the Government has rejected income tax indexation, indexed to the cost of living, when it has relied on inflation to force people's incomes into higher income tax rates in order to finance its half-baked socialist objectives. As one who has supported income tax indexation for some considerable time, I warmly support the Opposition's policy of implementing income tax indexation over a 3-year period, as recommended in the Mathews Committee report. The Liberal and National Country Parties are serious in their objective to bring about sound economic management and to remove the burden of inflation and unemployment from the shoulders of the people. The Whitlam Government knows that income tax indexation will impose a heavy discipline upon government- a discipline that it is not prepared to accept. In its crazy pursuit of some Utopian egalitarian collectivist society, the Government has eroded the initiative of the individual, the self-employed, the small businessman, the larger businessman and the industrial producers. 
People in the farming community have almost been crushed financially. They are disillusioned, despondent and dismayed. One of the worst features of the Government's approach to economic management is displayed in its implementation of the income tax rebate concept, which will only encourage most people to rely on the state for their livelihood. It is true that this is in keeping with the general philosophy of a socialist government. It will work until it kills the goose that lays the golden egg. There are those blind moderates in the Australian Labor Party who somehow believe that Australia's economic mess is the result of some accidental misfortune. Some like to believe that the problem was inherited. The honourable member for Robertson chooses that excuse. Others claim that inflation and unemployment have been imported. But the more astute left wing socialists know differently. They quietly acknowledge that the problem has been induced. They have no time for the free enterprise system- the so-called capitalist system. They support the Marxist system or a variation of it. 
The truth about our sorry state of affairs after fewer than 3 years of Labor Government is that the economic disease was neither inherited nor imported; it was induced. In the crazy attempt to implement the pledge of the Labor Party- the socialisation of industry, means of distribution and exchange- the Government has sought to re-allocate resources, redistribute incomes and restructure society so that today we ask: Where is the reward for excellence, where is incentive, where is the reward for work, where is the incentive to produce and where is the incentive to keep oneself?  Sir Winston  Churchill- I suppose one could say, that great conservative- summed up socialist governments very succinctly when he once said: 
The great paradox of socialist governments is that, from the time they assume power, they undermine the foundations of the private enterprise sector and deprive themselves of their capacity to implement their expensive social welfare policies. 
How true that is of this Government today. 
Let us analyse Labor's record after its first 3 Budgets. Expenditure has increased by 115 per cent; revenue by 101.6 percent. 
-Income tax by 141 per cent. That is not bad? That is not the sort of thing that the Australian people love, my dear sir. Company tax has increased by 39 per cent; excise duty by 90 per cent; sales tax by 86 per cent. What country can stand up to this stress? What country can stand up to this sort of bleeding? The honourable member for Robertson boasts about all the things that the Government has done in his electorate, of all the money that it has spent. But clearly, unless you can generate wealth, unless you can give the 13 million people of Australia the incentive to produce the wealth, clearly the time will come when you will not have anything to spend. It all seems incredible when one recalls the speeches of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)-  the now Prime Minister- in those heady days prior to 1972. It was the present Prime Minister who said then: 
Are you prepared to maintain at the head of your affairs a coalition which has lurched into crisis after crisis, embarrassment piled on embarrassment week after week? Will you accept another 3 years of waiting for next week's crisis, next week's blunder? Will you again entrust the nation's economy to the men who deliberately but needlessly created Australia's worst unemployment for 10 years - 
This was in 1972- or to the same men who have presided over the worst inflation for 20 years? 
What a laugh! Again in May 1974 the Prime Minister said: 
The Liberal-Country Parties wanted to drag Australia back to stagnation and complacency which Labor had brought to an end after 23 years of conservative rule. 
Honourable members opposite can put their own complexion upon that. But let the Australian people be the judge of that sort of comment; let events prove whether the Prime Minister's assessment of the situation was sound or not. Since those days inflation has soared from 4.5 per cent to 17 per cent, unemployment from 1.77 per cent to 5 per cent and overdraft interest rates from 7.75 per cent to 1 1.5 per cent. With capital expenditure falling almost to negative percentage rates and the growth rate reaching minus levels in real terms the Prime Minister must surely stand condemned. 
While the Government has dealt a shattering blow to the rural, industrial, mining and commercial sectors of the economy there is no sector more seriously hurt than the small business sector. These fully - 
-I would think that is what the objective is. These fully owned Australian businesses each employing fewer than 100 employees are facing their worst crisis in Australian history. These are the little people, the little people whom the ALP once cared about- I remember a time when it did- the people they are now destroying. 
There are over 250 000 small businesses in Australia. They employ 42 per cent of the Australian workforce. They are the foundation upon which the private enterprise system rests. They are of vital importance to the big publicly owned manufacturing companies in Australia. The shattering results of a survey conducted by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, in association with the University of New England, indicate that two-thirds of these enterprises are in danger of collapse or bankruptcy in the next 12 months. If this projection is correct, then somewhere between 20 per cent and 30 per cent of the Australian work force faces unemployment. If the projection is only half right, and ignores the resilience and determination of the small businessman to remain in business, then even a 10 per cent to 15 per cent unemployment level represents a shocking and horrible indictment of the Labor Party's crazy pursuit of its doctrinaire socialist philosophy. 
I know that supporters of the Government do not like what I am saying, but they are going to have to lump it. Since Labor came to power over 3000 of these small businesses have already gone broke. 
-Three thousand. Thousands of others are hanging by their finger nails from the cliff's edge, hoping for a change of government, hoping that something will turn up. They hoped that something would turn up in this Budget. They waited in vain hoping that this year's Budget would restore some economic sanity so that the private sector could begin to plan with a new spirit and a new confidence. These hard-working Australians have every reason to be disillusioned. 
The Opposition's concern for the small businesses was highlighted in the speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he offered alternative budgetary proposals. Let me enumerate some of them: The implementation of the recommendations of the Mathews Committee on company tax over a 3-year period; the implementation of stock valuation adjustment proposals from the Mathews recommendations for company tax payable in 1975-76 at 50 per cent of the recommended rate for stock valuation; the introduction of a 40 per cent investment allowance to supersede the accelerated depreciation allowance for plant and equipment installed before June 1977. This would be continued at the rate of 20 per cent for a further 5-year period; the suspension of the quarterly company taxation payments; the introduction of the right of companies to retain a percentage of their earnings untaxed for capital investment- and that is of tremendous importance too. 
-Oh, they are keeping only about 28 per cent after tax on what they earn. If the honourable member's advice is so sound I ask him please to give it to his colleagues because clearly they do not understand. But more needs to be done. There is an urgent need for governments, both State and Federal, to develop a national policy approach to ensure the viability of our small businesses. They are the backbone of our private enterprise system. In times of economic stress it is they who are the first to go to the wall. Far too often, decisions are taken by governments without ascertaining the effects of these decisions on small business. Legislation is often introduced without due concern for the effect that it may have on small business. Legislation, such as the Restrictive Trade Practices Act, clearly was drafted without due consideration for small business. 
Australia must follow the examples being set in the United States of America, Canada, France, Japan and in fact throughout most countries in the western world, which have taken seriously the need to sustain the small business sector. I support the view of Professor Meredith, the head of the Department of Accounting and Financial Management at the University of New England, who has called upon all State governments and the Commonwealth Government to establish special departments responsible for small business. It would not be difficult for governments to establish a departmental section within an appropriate department to deal with the problems of small business. Its role would not be one of interference with private enterprise, but to provide advice assistance and, I would hope, guaranteed loans as they do in the United States. Such a department would be responsible for placing before governments a view about the effects of any proposed legislation on this important sector. It is not good enough to establish a national small business bureau staffed with only 20 employees with 3 offices in 3 capital cities and none in the others. It is not surprising that a Labor Government, firmly pursuing a policy of socialisation of industry, distribution and exchange should retreat from the establishment of a small business department. However, there is no excuse for governments that support the other philosophy. 
There has been complacency and I believe that the reasons are fourfold. Firstly, governments have taken small business for granted; secondly, the community has taken them for granted; thirdly, the chambers of commerce have not looked after the interests of small business; and small businesses themselves have taken their future for granted and this is not good enough in today's competitive world. Those of us who are interested in private enterprise, those of us who are interested in the system that has given us the highest standard of living in the world should ensure that the foundations upon which that system exists - 
I would like to know where. For these reasons I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. This Budget is not good enough. In the country areas 90 per cent of employment comes from the small business sector and unless something is done quickly we will see unemployment in the rural areas of Australia on a level unsurpassed since the dreadful 1930s. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Since the setting up of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and its subsequent reformation into a Department, has  Mr Dexter  sought within its establishment a highly qualified training section to guide, train and consequently support the Aboriginal officials, most of whom are without previous clerical experience; if not, why not; if so, how many times was the proposal rejected by the Public Service Board, and on what grounds was it rejected. 
Is there now a training course within the Department for the instruction and guidance of Aboriginal officers; if so, what is its strength. 
Is it considered to be effective, and are there plans to increase its effectiveness. 
-It is not my wish to discuss whether the Government has appropriated enough money or whether it has appropriated too much money to the cause of the Aboriginal people, but I do agree with the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  that money alone will not solve the serious Aboriginal problem. Certainly there is a need for a genuinely generous, sympathetic and patient approach. This may redress the damage that has been done. If I had to make a criticism- I do not make it in any party political sense- of the Government's approach to the Aboriginal problem it would be on 3 counts. The first count is that I believe that the Government has thought that a big money handout will meet the debt of 200 years of neglect. 
-I would not say that I would cut it, but I think I would make sure that money was not going to the disadvantage of the people. We have heard the speech of the honourable member for Mackellar, and I think there is a lot of truth in what he has said. It is worth taking aboard. The second matter is the question of selfdetermination. I wonder whether that in itself is a panacea. Thirdly, perhaps the Government has thought that land rights and the settlement of land rights in itself would largely solve the Aboriginal problem. 
I do not think that these approaches in themselves are good enough unless they are applied in the knowledge that there is a great diversity in the development amongst Aboriginal communities region by region, State by State. Whilst the term Aboriginality has gained credence- a term which is intended to identify all people of Aboriginal blood with the commonly held view that the Aborigines have been dispossessed of their land and have been broken by white settlement- the term in itself tends to oversimplify the totality of the problems and the actions we must take in order to try to tackle the problems. 
Whilst there is a common problem, there is certainly no common solution to the problems of the Aboriginal people. The needs of the Aboriginal people living in either the semi-tribal or tribal situations in the Northern Territory, in northern Queensland or in parts of Western Australia are certainly entirely different from the problems of the Aboriginal people living in Redfern in the electorate of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  or in my own home town of Moree. The tribal structure of the tribal Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory must not be deliberately or inadvertently shattered any further at this stage. Extensive handouts or white intervention in the affairs of these tribal people, I believe, will only erode the power of the Aboriginal tribal structure with a consequential breakdown in their whole community. I believe that this must be resisted. 
It is not unrealistic to suppose that the time will come when these people will wish to merge into the wider Australian community. I think this is inevitable, but I believe that that time should come when the people themselves feel they are able to go out into it. In New South Wales, while most of the Aborigines and people of Aboriginal bloods identify themselves with the term Aboriginality they have become part of the wider Australian community. It should be our objective to ensure that they become living elements within it. In so doing, special emphasis must be given to health, education, job opportunities and housing. It is essential that they be encouraged to accept their full responsibilities- I underline that- as members of the total Australian community, because I do not think they can have it both ways. I do not think anybody can. It is in this situation where they are living elements amongst white Australians, working amongst white Australians and enjoying their leisure time amongst them, that they must also be encouraged to assimilate into the wider community, accepting their total responsibility, accepting the laws of the land and accepting their responsibility to that community. Certainly I see them as a separate ethnic group not unlike the Greek, Italian or Baltic groups but integrated into that wider community. Such an approach should not ignore the special need to improve their health, their educational facilities, their standard of housing and their ability to accept employment because they start from behind scratch. Special efforts must be made to meet their needs. 
In Moree, where we have the largest Aboriginal population outside Sydney, there is an urgent need to provide employment. Certainly there is an urgent need to provide more housing and adequate health care although I must say that the Daughters of Charity have done a tremendous job in Moree in providing health care for the younger people. However, employment opportunity does become a very important ingredient of their advancement and their ability to adapt to the total society. The Moree wool store- I have written to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  about it- was built during the war years by the Chifley Government and today is virtually empty. It is owned by the Commonwealth. I asked the Minister on behalf of the Moree Aboriginal Advancement Association whether it would be possible to get a special works project going within that store in order to provide employment for the many unemployed Aborigines in the town and district. The store is very large and would provide good and sound facilities for the building of prefabricated houses and for teaching skills and trades to Aboriginal people. I know that the Department of Labor and Immigration has taken the suggestion aboard but I hope that in the not too distant future the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will turn his attention to this possibility and that his Department will take the opportunity to use this wool store, which is lying empty, to try to provide worthwhile employment opportunity and training for many of the young people who, because they have no trade, will have to drift into Redfern or elsewhere in Sydney away from their own environment. 
In conclusion I turn my attention to the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee which was established with good intentions to try to help in the formulation of policy and in the establishment of priorities for expenditure. It was a way of trying to achieve self-determination. The Committee has failed so far. The Aborigines on it seem to think that it has failed. However, I believe that it is essential to try to restructure that body in some way so that the NACC will have some relevance to the Aboriginal communities and groups throughout Australia. Unless the NACC is responsive to their views and reflects the diverse and differing requirements of each community it surely Will not be able to discharge the role of giving sound and proper advice to the government of the day. It is probable that this body could be made into a statutory body. It could not be under its present constitution. The difficulty for the Northern Territory Aborigines is that on the NACC they can barely cope with the Aborigines from the other States. That in itself raises a further problem. The NACC probably is a good concept although as it now is operating it is not serving a proper and sound cause. I hope that the Government will examine its structure to ensure that it is able to give expression to the grass roots feelings and attitudes of the Aboriginal people at the local community level. 
I want to join with other speakers in paying tribute to the Department of the Capital Territory. I do so with a great deal of sincerity and feeling because I know just how good a department it is. I also pay tribute to the City Manager who undoubtedly is one of the top men in the Public Service. I know that the Department has laboured under great difficulties at times, particularly since 1972. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  has made the most of a bad job. He inherited one heU of a mess from his colleague, the present Attorney-General and honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Enderby),  who really and truly, got away with murder. If I, as the Minister for the Interior, had tried to do to Canberra what he was able to do in that time, I would have been shot in the Australian Capital Territory. I do not know how he got away with it. He was control mad. He surrounded himself with so many controls that on one occasion I could not help but liken him to a barrow man trying to fly a jumbo jet. There was one control after another. I think that the present Minister has had some difficulty in trying to find the right time at which to remove some of the controls and measures the previous Minister had taken. 
In my view, probably one of the worst things that has happened in the Australian Capital Territory has been the way in which the Australian Capital Territory Police Force has been treated. I firmly believe that when the Opposition returns to government it will return the administration of the A.C.T. Police Force to the Department of the Capital Territory, to the body that is responsible, to the charge of the Minister who has direct responsibility for this Territory. Members of the A.C.T. Police Force are wen trained. I do not think that any police force in Australia gives more training to its recruits than does the A.C.T. Police Force. It is a shame that the integrity of that Force has been somewhat damaged because of the recent rearrangement. It has not helped the morale of the Force. I think that it is a great tragedy and I hope that one day this situation will change. 
-The Attorney-General and honourable member for Canberra did that evil deed, too. Another bad feature of this Government is that when it assumed office it decided to turn the Australian Capital Territory into an experimental social laboratory for some of its socialist experiments. I think it was  Mr Larry  Pickering who on one occasion likened the Aus.tralian Capital Territory to a guinea pig, with the then Minister operating upon it. It has not been a proud record. Canberra is one of the world's finest cities. We have inherited a very great city, and it was no accident that that came about. Twenty-three years of Liberal and Country Party government saw to it that the national capital would be a city of which every Australian would be proud. Canberra owes its grandness and its elegance, in my view, to  Sir Robers  Menzies perhaps more than to anybody else because he saw it as a garden city. I hope that aU governments in the future will treat it as a national capital and will try to maintain the present beauty and integrity of the city. 
The land problem has not been an easy one to resolve. Clearly, the people in the Australian Capital Territory wm face difficulties in the next year and the year to follow as a result of the 33 per cent reduction in funds for land servicing in 1 976-77. 1 must admit that I had a similar experience in 1971 when, for economic reasons, the then Government decided to cut back on the amount of funds available for land servicing. We paid a price for that in the years that followed. Let me tell the Government that it will not catch up on the backlog if too big and too drastic a cut is made. I turn now to Commissioner for Housing loans. I understand that the loans are now for $ 1 5,000, subject to a means test, for the purchase of a new house and $12,000 for the purchase of an established home. Undoubtedly the reason for the differential was to try to put some life into the building industry. I think that the time has come when that differential needs to be taken away. I think that Commissioner for Housing loans should be $15,000, if not more, for all houses because of the increases in building costs that are taking place. 
Rent control has been something of a disaster. It has led to a situation in which rental accommodation is in extremely short supply. The fair renting principle has driven investment out of the Australian Capital Territory. It has tended to force builders and investors into parts of New South Wales and into other States. Who on earth is going to invest in building in Canberra to receive a return of about  6V2  per cent when he is facing an inflation rate of 18 per cent to 20 per cent? Of course, there was a scream when the municipal rates were increased. I suppose one could say that that is the consequence of inflation. It is another price that the ordinary householder has to pay because of the inflationary spiral that is taking place. But a 40 per cent increase is a very large jump in a year. I do not know how many communities could take it. I am certain that when I was in local government I would not have remained a member of local government if I had been a party to a decision to increase rates by 40 per cent in a single year. That is an incredible increase and I do not thing that it was justified. 
The other point I want to make concerns redevelopments in Canberra. I believe that this is long overdue. In suburbs such as Kingston and some of the older suburbs, the houses are falling into disrepair. If we do not watch out we will have slum-type buildings in some of the older parts of Canberra. The time has come for the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory to press ahead with medium density housing, if not high density housing, in certain parts of Canberra to try to cope with the ever-increasing demand for housing. Canberra's population has increased from 138 000 in March 1971 to just on 190 000 today. That is an enormous increase. The Department cannot let the city spread wildly or at that rapid rate without trying to provide more medium and high density housing. 
There has been no increase in rental accommodation in that time. It is no wonder that there is a great housing shortage. Of course, under the rent control system many people are preferring to sell their houses rather than to rent them. A further matter which I ask the Minister to consider is the matter of commercial leases in the Australian Capital Territory. I understand that enterprises no longer can purchase a 99-year lease in the Australian Capital Territory. I am sure that that is why there is such a surplus of commercial leases on hand. Clearly, business will not buy in unless it has a long tenure of the leasehold. I do not think that the Government has made a wise decision here. This city depends not only on government expenditure but also on private investment- investment from the private sector- to maintain the growth that is necessary to accommodate the people. I would hope that the Minister would look seriously at the rent control report, which advocates the progressive reduction of rent control. I believe that he is sympathetic to the idea, and I hope that his colleagues show enough sense to support him should he make the proposal, because clearly rent control has been a disaster for the Australian Capital Territory. 
Whilever it exists here and it does not exist elsewhere, there will be an accommodation shortage here. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Council for Aboriginal Affairs still in existence. 
If so, (a) who are its members, and what is their remuneration and (b) will he present to the Parliament a report on the activities of the Council for 1973 and 1974 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. In view of the fact that the Prime Minister has bestowed upon the Minister all the scientific qualifications, can he say whether he is qualified to be in dispute with his mentor over the pronunciation of the word for the unit of measurement- KILL-o-MEtre or kilOMetre? Has the Minister, in his capacity as Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, drawn upon all the scientific and linguistic advice available to him? Will the Minister put at rest the debate that has been going on by informing us which is right, kil-OM-etre or KILL-o-MEtre? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory which made it necessary for special legislation to be enacted to enable lawyers at the Australian Legal Aid Office in Canberra to act in their full capacity. 
In the absence of any similar legislation in relation to the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, by what authority do lawyers in that service act for Aborigines. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In the light of the personal explanation of the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick),  I apologise to him if I offended him. I did think he was making an attack on the honourable member for Gwydir and I thought he had misunderstood the purpose behind the writing of the letter to which he referred. He is a jolly good neighbour and I feel that would not be Uke him. I think this clears the air on the issue. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal 
Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) When may I expect an answer to questions numbers 1306 and 1307 which I placed on the Notice Paper on 15 October 1974. 
Why has there been such a delay in providing answers to these questions involving the public interest. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) When may I expect an answer to question No. 497 which I placed on the Notice Paper on 1 7 July 1 974. 
Why has there been so much delay in furnishing an answer. 
asked the Minister for* the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What has been the increase in the rental on Government houses in the A.C.T. from 31 December 1972 to 30 June 1975. . 
I rise to refute a statement made during a debate on a previous BUI by the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  who clearly was quite confused about a letter that was submitted in protest against the redistribution proposals for the State of New South Wales. He quoted the letter but clearly did not know that Collarenebri was in his own electorate. That just demonstrates the difficulty that members of Parliament have in trying to represent electorates of that size. The honourable member for Darling read out a letter which was signed by  Mrs Marcia  Badgery, a woman I know extremely well and a woman who happens to live in the electorate of Darling.  Her  address is 'Alpha', Collarenebri. The letter is dated 10 March 1975 and is addressed to the Distribution Commissioners, Australian Electoral Office, 162-166 Goulburn Street, Darlinghurst 2010. She is a very fine woman, a very temperate woman, but a woman who is concerned about the way in which this Government has been performing. She is also concerned about these sorts of redistributions which will disadvantage her, her family and her friends even more than they are disadvantaged today. She writes: 
Dear  Sir, 
I should like to complain about the size of suggested alteration of the Gwydir  Electorie.  It is far to big for any member to cover and find out what the electors want. 
She is referring to the proposed new electorate of Gwydir. She goes on: 
We in this area have only seen our member once - 
That is the honourable member for Darlingsince  it was last altered; 
It was in my electorate. When Collarenebri was in my electorate I was a very frequent visitor there and saw this woman frequently about many problems which they had in that area. She went on to say:  and he never seems to take any notice of what we want in this area. 
It is the honourable member for Darling. He is a friend of mine and a neighbour. He does work hard over a tremendous area but clearly he does not go to Collarenebri very often because he does not know that Collarenebri is in his electorate. She continues: 
We have had the worst open throated locust plague that has been known. This area the worst of anywhere, and our member has not had time to come and see us. So if the Gwydir electorate is made bigger, it would be just impossible for any one man to keep in touch with his electors. 
My friend, the honourable member for Darling, in selecting that letter out of those that are published in the collection of comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners for New South Wales clearly thought that she was referring to me as the honourable member for Gwydir and assumed that Collarenebri was still in my electorate. I think that demonstrates the futility of a government trying to pursue a poliCY of achieving this elusive one vote one value concept. The Minister is an intelligent man and he knows that there is no way in the world that he can achieve this concept. The only possible way of achieving a one vote one value concept is to have a census today, a redistribution tomorrow and an election the next day. With the mobility of population, it is absolutely impossible to achieve this elusive concept. Clearly the Government is not interested in pursuing it to its ultimate conclusion. It has decided to have a redistribution because it can see that under the existing boundaries, it needs a better redistribution than the ones it now has to stay in power. Let me look at the present situation. In 1972 the Labor Party polled 49.6 per cent of the vote but won 52.8 per cent of the seats, and that was under the former Liberal-Country Party Government redistribution. What sort of weighting does the Labor Party want? I Will tell honourable members what sort of weighting the Labor Party wants. In 1974 Labor polled 49.3 per cent of the vote but won 52 per cent of the seats. It is now pursuing this redistribution. It is getting scared. The Labor Party is scared. It has talked itself into an election. It has talked the people into an election and if it does not watch out it will talk us into an election. 
-I got 57.8 per cent and if your Party can achieve that percentage at the next election it will have done well. The redistribution proposals that the Labor Party is now putting to us under the criteria that it has laid down would bring about a situation in which Labor would win with a majority of five if it polled 45 per cent of the total Australian vote. 
That is correct. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  looks absolutely shocked. I know that the Minister for Services and Property knows about this because, as I said earlier, he is an intelligent man and he knows what he is about. The Labor Party is lucky to have the Minister really and, the way things are going, it might need more than him. Under this redistribution the Labor Party would win with a majority of five after polling 45 per cent of the vote instead of a majority of five after having polled 49.3 per cent of the overall vote. 
Exactly. The honourable member for Wakefield has clearly understood what this whole exercise is about. The Minister made some grandstanding statements about the Labor Party. He said it represented more rural seats than the Country Party and it represented more rural people. 
That is nonsense because the truth of the matter is that the Labor Party holds ten of what we might call rural seats, the Country Party holds 2 1 seats, and the Liberal Party holds 14 seats. 
-It really does. There are 45 rural seats. I suppose the Minister is going to call Mitchell a rural seat. 
-That is another Caucus racket. Let us be fair. Labor represents only 3 rural seats in New South Wales. It represents no rural seats in Victoria and at the rate it is going it will represent none in New South Wales. 
You are only talking about trees and haystacks. Let us talk about people. The Australian Labor Party, having reached a situation through kicking rural people in the teeth, now knows that it has lost faith with those people. Clearly it is setting out to achieve a redistribution that does erode the voting strength of people in rural areas. It is clear that Labor could not care less about these people. To illustrate what has happened, in the electorate of Gwydir 24 polling booths have been abolished by the Minister. I would like to know how many polling booths in Australia - 
Nine hundred and seventeen polling booths have been abolished throughout Australia. Who was that designed to advantage? This is designed to advantage the people who support the Labor Party. This is designed to disadvantage the people who support the nonLabor parties. Let us get things into perspective. We know why we are here. Worse still, I know why we are here debating this measure. It is because the Government is scared of its future and it feels that this measure might save it should it get through the Senate. There are 4 sound reasons for opposing this legislation. The first is that the legislation providing for this redistribution is under challenge before the High Court. As the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has said, the Government is almost in contempt of the Court. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The time allotted for the second reading debate on this Bill has now expired. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-I want to reply to some of the remarks of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  who seemed to me to sheet home his complete disregard for the current problem confronting small business. It is no good trying to whitewash the Government's record in respect of what it has done for the private sector since it has assumed office. The fact that the honourable member chooses to turn a blind eye to the problems of small business typifies the attitude of so many supporters of the Government, including the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  who is trying to interject. It typifies the attitude of the Government to the private sector. The Government has attempted to distort the facts and the real position. It ignores the warnings of  Mr Henderson  and Professor Meredith, independent authorities, on the problems that now confront small business in Australia. Probably the honourable member for Eden-Monaro knows better than these independent authorities. The fact that he represents one of the most vulnerable electorates in Australia determines his defensive arguments. No doubt the fact that Australian Labor Party advertising agents will arrive here tonight will promote further speculation about an election. Who is concerned about an election? I think that the Government is talking itself and the people into an election. Clearly the honourable member for Eden-Monaro showed great concern tonight. He obviously seems to be thinking that an election could be held this year and that he could be defeated. One can forgive the honourable member for trying to defend his Government's deplorable record in the private sector if he is arguing for his political life. But his electorate will not forgive him if he does nothing to improve the lot of small business in Eden-Monaro. 
I want to devote most of my time to the very real problem faced by small business because of the great importance of this sector to the rural areas of Australia. About 90 per cent of people employed in rural areas- areas that I representowe their employment to small business. I draw attention to the complete inadequacy of the National Small Business Bureau that the Government has established. It is hopelessly understaffed and has insufficient resources to provide any worthwhile assistance. I believe that it is staffed by about 20 personnel and that it is set up in about 3 capital cities. Admittedly this is a start, but it is not enough and the Government should not kid itself that it is. 
The small businesses of Australia are undoubtedly the foundation of our private enterprise system. We understand that there are about 250 000 small businesses in Australia which provide 42 per cent of the employment opportunities in this country. Let us not turn a blind eye to the independent survey that was released in May which showed that two-thirds of small businesses in this country are either facing bankruptcy or are facing very serious difficulties. Of course, if these projections are true the result could well be the unemployment of 20 per cent to 30 per cent of the Australian workforce. If they are only half true 10 per cent to 1 5 per cent of the Australian workforce will be unemployed. Australia lags behind nearly every advanced country in relation to policies to assist small business. I am not saying that we had all the answers when we were in Government. 
I think that small business took its future for granted because it felt and knew that the then Government was sympathetic to private enterprise. But small business does not have the same confidence today. Clearly so many small businesses are sick and tired of trying to hang on to the cliff edge by their fingernails. That is about what is going on at the present time. Something has to be done urgently. It is incredible that no State or Federal government, or indeed the present Federal Government, has a special section of a department which is responsible for the welfare of small business in this country. There is no minister directly responsible for this section of the Australian business community. Yet, this is not the case in every other advanced Western nation, including Japan. So let this be a lesson. 
I would have one. I believe that it is absolutely necessary that there be established a special department responsible for small business in this country. 
It will be released in due course. The point is that so often governments introduce legislation without knowing what effect that legislation will have upon small business in this country. If a department is not established to advise a Minister and Cabinet on the effect of legislation that is introduced in connection with the business sector of the community how can there be government direction that shows any real concern for that sector? 
Small businesses are the breeding ground for new ideas, techniques and innovations. Small businesses dominate, as I mentioned earlier, the outer metropolitan areas, particularly country towns where they face special problems. Most small enterprises have limited access to financial resources. Many pay a high interest rate penalty compared to bigger businesses. There are insufficient taxation provisions to encourage small businesses. I want to devote some little time to one of the real problems that small business faces. Small businesses operate by way of a private family company or some other partnership. In respect of private family companies the profits earned go first to paying the primary company tax of  42lA  per cent and secondly to pay dividends to shareholders equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount remaining of the original profits earned after payment of primary company tax. This leaves an amount available of 28.75 per cent of the original profit to be added to the company's accumulated reserves. The figure of 28.75 per cent is arrived at as follows: On each $100 of taxable income, tax is payable in the sum of $42.50 leaving a balance of $57.50. As one-half of this sum is then declared as dividend, the balance remaining is reduced to $28.75 or 28% per cent of the original amount earned. If there were no inflationary factors perhaps that would leave sufficient reserves for a company to reinvest and to operate from its own reserves. But in today's inflationary spiral there is no way in the world that small business can operate in that manner. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  a businessman, smiles. Of course he must know that he is wrong. I hope that the honourable member, with his knowledge of business practice, tries to persuade his colleagues to see the sense in what I am trying to say. The present income tax arrangement for small companies in this country is practically wrecking them. 
He probably is. Let us hope that he does not try to whitewash the Government's record in this area as did the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. Australia cannot lag behind comparable countries in the western world in this regard. There is a need for a special department. There is a need for legislation to be looked at to ascertain its effect upon small business. There is a need, in my view, for an annual White Paper on small businesses in this country. I believe that they need to be elevated to the sort of position and the sort of importance that this country and this Parliament owes to them. 
Honourable members opposite can smile. Forty two per cent of the people who are working in this country owe their employment to small business. If two-thirds of small business are facing bankruptcy the Government will have brought one of the worst unemployment and social problems to this country in its history. Honourable members opposite should not smile; they should take the matter seriously and start to look for a solution to the problem they have created. They owe a big responsibility to the people that they supposedly represent, the small people of this country, but they have thrown their chances away. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What area of land has been transferred to the Gurindji from Wave Hill Station in the Northern Territory. 
What sum was paid by the Government to the owners of Wave Hill Station for the purchase of this lease area. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Aborigines are living at Wattie Creek. 
To what tribes do the Aborigines belong other than the Gurindji tribe. 
How many were employed and by whom on a full time or a casual basis as at 30 June 1975. 
How many were receiving unemployment benefits and pensions as at 30 June, 1975. 
What Aboriginal enterprises are currently operative in the area. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people are on the waiting list for Government owned houses and flats in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What is the waiting time for each category of houses and flats. 

 Mr BRYANT- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 5 September 1 973 - 
2529 families or persons with dependants and 485 single persons were on the waiting list. 
The waiting periods were - 23 months for a 4 bedroom house 28 months for a 3 bedroom house 6 months for a 2 bedroom flat 5 months for a bachelor flat. 
ACT.: Rents (Question No. 2968) 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Minister's statement in reply to my question No. 2217 that the Northern Territory Police is part of the Australian Police by virtue of the Prime Minister's announcement of 27 March 197S, (a) does the Northern Territory Police and Police Officers Ordinance still require the Commissioner of the Force to exercise and perform his powers and functions in accordance with the instructions of the Administrator and (b) does the Northern Territory Administration Act require the Administrator to exercise his functions in accordance with the instructions of the Minister for Northern Australia. 
If so, is the amalgamation of the Northern Territory Police and the Australian Police by Prime Ministerial statement in conflict with the laws in force in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
What is the anticipated staff ceiling for the National Parks and Wildlife Service for the years ending 30 June 1975, 1976 and 1977. 
Will he provide details of the positions being established in respect of the Service. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps have been taken to implement the Government's policy, announced on 29 April 1974, to provide, at very little cost, an additional radio network for the ABC in the majority of rural areas that now receive a single ABC service. 
Is it a fact that 25. 1 per cent of program time on metropolitan networks was devoted to classical music, compared with 9.0 per cent on regional programs during 1973-74, and that no coverage at all of parliamentary proceedings is provided on regional programs, compared with 4.2 per cent of total time on metropolitan networks. 
If so, when is it planned to give country listeners equal access to programs of this kind. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Environment I would like to take this opportunity to thank the former Ministers especially the previous Minister who is now Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  and the present Minister for Environment  (Mr Berinson)  for the co-operation they have extended to me on matters related to the Environment portfolio. Honourable members will recall that in a period of 12 months I have had the privilege, for want of a more courteous expression, to shadow no less than 4 Ministers, namely,  Dr Cass, Dr J.  F. Cairns, then the Prime Minister and now the present Minister for Environment,  Mr Berinson. 
I do not know whether I would be more suited to that than the person who has done the shifting. He might be better suited in that role. It has been like looking through a kaleidoscope and seeing an endless variety of colourful figures passing me by. I particularly want to thank the permanent head of the Department,  Dr McMichael,  and the officers of his Department for their ready co-operation, advice and courtesy at all times. Last year when I was offered this responsibility by the Opposition of being Opposition spokesman on the environment I resolved that I would approach it in the most bi-partisan manner possible. In my view such an approach is essential in order to achieve community co-operation and involvement. Irresponsible confrontation on environmental issues will not solve anything. It will achieve nothing more than polarisation and community intolerance and impatience. The environment belongs to everyone and it will not be protected unless individuals and the community as a whole are concerned for it. It is one area from which party politics should be removed, and I believe that in this Parliament this largely has been achieved. It is an area which requires cooperation throughout all sections of the community, from the Parliament onwards. 
One of the criticisms I have relates to the fragmentation in the presentation of the appropriations in this area. In Budget Paper No. 2, for instance, Appropriation Bill No. 1, expenditure by the Department of Environment for 1975-76 is shown as $7,703,000 as against $8,893,439 in 1974-75 and $8,243,437 in 1973-74. On the face of it this year there is a substantial reduction in expenditure. It is difficult to assess the exact expenditure by the Government in this field because of the fragmented way in which the Estimates are presented. For example, on page 42 of Budget Paper No. 2 a total of $7,703,000 is shown as the appropriation for the Department of Environment for 1974-75. On page 78 there is an appropriation of $1,690,000 for forestry, fisheries, wildlife and national parks under the Department of Northern Australia. On page 100 and following pages, under the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs there are appropriations for air monitoring and for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Of course, when we come to the Department of Urban and Regional Development on page 135 we find an appropriation for the national estate, the National Trust, the Heritage Commission and so on. From what I have said,  Mr Chairman,  you will appreciate that it is very difficult to speak to the estimates of the Department of Environment and environmental issues when it is so hard to work out the total appropriation and the funding for this important area. 
I ask the Minister for Environment: Is it necessary to present the Department's estimates in such an involved and fragmented way? I wonder whether the Government is trying to conceal its expenditure in this important area, either with the intention of doing good by stealth or, God forbid, concealing some dark secret. I will leave that point because I want to proceed to another area that I think needs urgent attention. 
I ask the Minister Are not the Government's priorities completely topsy-turvy when we find that the vast preponderance of funds spent in the States for acquisition of lands for national parks is being spent by the Federal Government on its own account and are not being paid to the States to improve or to increase their own national park systems? Will this not lead to most wasteful duplication of staff and resources? Is this what the Federal Government really is setting out to achieve? It is well known that owing to the Budget cuts and so on the Government has had to retreat from the offer that it made to the States last year when it said that it would make $9m available to them to acquire land for the purposes of establishing national parks. I know that the States were very upset because they could not complete the acquisitions within the 12-months period, or a period less than that. I am well aware also of the efforts the Minister has made. No doubt he will report to the House on what he has done in order to try to assist the States with firm commitments that they entered into as a result of the offer made last year as part, of a 3-year program. Clearly there must be a 3-year program if we are to have any sort of advance in this area. 
I think that last year the Opposition complimented the Government for having announced that $20m would be available to the States over a 3-year program to get on with the job of acquiring land. What worries me is that the Government on one hand has retreated from its commitment to the States yet on the other it has acquired land to the value of $4.3m, and that land is to be administered by it- namely, Towra Point, an area about which I think there is a challenge by the New South Wales Government in the High Court, and Elanda Plains in Queensland. I wonder whether it is good practice to be offering States money through the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act on the one hand in order to assist the States in acquiring and administering their own land while at the same time making separate appropriations for the Commonwealth to acquire lands and administer them. I believe such an approach is fraught with all the elements of a confrontation with the States. It achieves the sort of thing I mentioned earlier. I do not believe we are going to make progress if there is to be that sort of confrontation. 
In the last two or three minutes left for me to speak I want to raise another matter that was brought to my attention by the Capricorn Conservation Council. I had spoken to the Minister about this matter. I only received the letter today. It is dated 30 September 1975. It was addressed to me and was signed by  Mr McCabe.  In it he said: 
As you are probably aware grave concern has been expressed by the conservation movement over the drastic reduction in funding available in the current financial year for National Park land acquisition programs. It is unfortunate that the Government has seen it necessary to go back on its commitment to spend money over a 3-year period. There are many areas in Queensland which could have been acquired as part of proposed National Parks and I am sure that a similar situation exists in other States 
The immediate concern of that body is that it wants either the Queensland Government or the Commonwealth Government to make funds available to acquire land in the Dingo area west of Rockhampton in order to try to preserve the habitat for the bridled nailtailed wallaby which is practically extinct as a species of the kangaroo or wallaby in Australia. I hope that the Minister will confer with the Queensland Government to see what can be done before their habitat is destroyed as a result of the extension of the brigalow farming program. I think this is a very important project and I hope that with funds that the Minister may still have available some action will be taken to assist Queensland to acquire and administer this area. Apart from those general constructive criticisms I support the estimates on behalf of the Opposition. 
I wish to pursue a little further the issue raised by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  earlier in this debate, that is, the closing of polling booths in the electorate of Wakefield. The Minister for Servives and Property  (Mr Daly),  in answer to a question on notice, indicated to the Parliament and to the people of this country that, in order to save money, the Government has closed over 900 polling places throughout Australia. In the case of the electorate of Wakefield, some electors will have to travel, as the honourable member for Wakefield said, over 270 miles to cast a vote and return 270 miles home after having done so. There may be even more extreme cases. The honourable member says that there are no roads. In the electorate of Gwydir 24 polling places have been closed also- polling places that have been in existence for many years- for very good reasons. Some of them are remote regions and in mountainous country where they can be cut off by rapidly rising creeks. 
The honourable member for Paterson says that he has quite a few of them in his electorate. Further west in the electorate of Gwydir there are vast areas that are not served by all-weather roads. In times of wet weather the only way people will be able to cast a vote in a federal election from now on will be to walk, to go on horseback or by a 4-wheel drive vehicle. What the Government has done effectively is disfranchise a great number of people in certain circumstances. The Minister for Services and Property would be well aware that the people who cast their votes in some of these isolated areas are not favourably disposed towards this Government. 
We were told that this measure has been brought in to save money. Bearing that in mind, let me refer to another aspect of the Department of Services and Property. We find around the countryside a great number of ghost offices. The Auditor-General's report on the Department of Services and Property indicates that there are no fewer than 6 government offices that have been unoccupied for extended periods and which are valued at $12,051,000. The Government is also paying dead rent on leased buildings which it is not occupying. The Auditor-General's report indicates that the Government is paying rent on 3 buildings to the extent of $1,130,000 and a further 7 cases were noted where dead rent ranged from approximately $40,000 to $1 10,000. The Auditor-General thought that the state of affairs was so serious that it was necessary to report to the Parliament and have the issue referred to the Joint Committee on Public Accounts. The Auditor-General's report stated: 
In a recent reply to Audit representations, the Department of Services and Property indicated the details provided highlighted some of the difficulties confronting the Department in meeting its responsibilities for property arrangements. The Department stated, however, once it acquired a property on behalf of another department, it was the responsibility of the client department to ensure the property was utilised effectively for departmental purposes, or if not required immediately, alternative arrangements should be explored; for example, lease-back, renting, etc. 
The Administrative Arrangements Order of 6 June 1975 provides for the acquisition, leasing and disposal of land and property, including office accommodation, in Australia for Australian Government purposes to be transferred to the 
Department of Urban and Regional Development. Responsibility for matters relating to the control, use and management of land and property, including office accommodation, remains with the Department of Services and Property. 
That was contained in the report. The Joint Committee on Public Accounts indicated that it was concerned that the Department of Services and Property had not produced either a cohesive or an adequate set of procedures which would enable it to cope with its functions. The Committee also stated that the evidence presented at the inquiry showed that there was a large degree of confusion and disagreement among the principal departments involved and the procedures themselves were not capable of coping with demands placed on them either in the normal course of events or when unusual pressures or circumstances arose. What an indictment that is. I am not saying this- 
The honourable member for Shortland should read the Auditor-General's report. I am not saying this; I am quoting from the Auditor-General's report, which is an entirely independent opinion. That has not been the case in all circumstances. This Government has been in office for nearly 3 years. It cannot say that it has inherited this situation or that it has not had a chance in 3 years to overcome the payment of dead rent which is running into millions of dollars, leaving ghost buildings unoccupied around the countryside, yet it is trying to save money by closing about 970 polling booths around Australia and disfranchising people. Really the whole matter is a travesty of justice for people living in remote areas of Australia, people who have enough difficulties in trying to make a living, people who are deprived in more ways than one. Now we find that a great number of them in difficult circumstances are being deprived of their democratic entitlement to vote at federal elections. Let us not hear the story that more and more of these polling booths are to be closed because the Government is trying to save money. That is not a valid argument from the Department of Services and Property. The Minister cannot talk about saving money when he is leaving ghost buildings around the countryside unoccupied, when he is paying dead rent running into millions of dollars. The situation is unbelievable. The Minister will not convince the people of Australia that it has not been these sorts of things that have been running the country into a deficit of $2,500m. Previous governments never had a deficit of $2,500m. What is more, they would not have countenanced the situation of budgeting for this year's deficit of $2,800m. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  who interjects sits there ashamed of his Government's record. He is ashamed because he is a man of conscience. He would have to be ashamed, as every other Government supporter would be. 
Let us take places like Boolcarroll where the polling booth has existed since 1901. Boolcarroll was an old staging place for the bullock teams that used to take the wool from west of Walgett. No longer is there a polling place for the local people. I can assure the Minister that the locals of Boolcarroll are very upset about this. I refer also to places like Bulyeroi, Cubaroo Siding and Pokataroo. They are all grand places, places that Slim Dusty has mentioned many a time in some of his songs. The people who live in those areas should have the same entitlement to cast a vote as the people who live in Grayndler at the back door of the Minister himself. What he has done effectively is to deprive people in our democratic society of a basic right in times of wet weather. He says that he has done it to save money. But we have seen what is contained in the AuditorGeneral's report. I did not say that. All I did was quote from the Auditor-General's report which stands as an indictment of the Minister, of the Government and of every member of it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the  Minister  for  Environment upon notice: 
1 ) Has he made any recommendations on the granting or withholding of export licences for woodchips from the South Western forests of Western Australia. 
Has it been represented to him that certain areas, notably the Shannon River Basin, should be preserved as National Parks. 
Has he had discussion on this matter with the Western Australian Government either directly or through officers of his Department. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he state in answer to Question No. 2180 that expenditure is brought to account for overseas travel by Ministers and personal staff in Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). 
If so, is it a fact that detailed costs of these visits were not provided in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1974-75. 
Will he provide the detailed costs for his own visits shown as $137,939 in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1974-75. 
Will he also provide the detailed costs of all other overseas visits as shown in the schedule in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1974-75. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Has any limitation been placed on political activities of immigrants from Chile who supported the Allende Government, similar to those imposed on immigrants who supported the former South Vietnamese Government; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Can he say how many nuclear power stations are operating throughout the world, and in what countries they are situated. 
Can he also say what fraction of the total energy generated world-wide comes from nuclear power stations. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he supply details of all payments from the vote 'Other Services-Support for Ecological Projcts' during 1974-75. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What fraction of Australia 's primary energy needs is at present being supplied by the harnessing of solar energy. 
) What funds have been allocated for research into solar energy in 1975-76. 
Have economical methods of generating electric power from solar energy been developed in any country. 
Is research into this problem being conducted overseas. 
If so, is Australia contributing to that research. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Does the Government regard mentally and physically handicapped people as being high in the priority of needs? Does the Government regard voluntary organisations and sheltered workshop associations as being important in caring for handicapped people? If so, when will the Government expedite payments for salary subsidies which in some cases have been owing for some months? When will the Government establish its own expenditure priorities to ensure that capital subsidies are available for hostel and other accommodation for handicapped people? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the total area of the Northern Territory. 
What is the total area of Aboriginal Reserves in the Northern Territory. 
What is the area of pastoral leases that have been purchased by the Government for the Aborigines, and what area is now being negotiated. 
What area of the Northern Territory is now the subject of land claims by the Aboriginal tribes and clans outside the Reserves, and where are these claims situated. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What provision is being made to provide funds for purchase of properties by Aborigines during the financial year 1975-76. 
What properties is it proposed to purchase with the funds sought. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the details of all expenditure by and in respect of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs, including remuneration of the  Chairman  and members and travelling expenses, during 1974-75. 
How many meetings did the Council hold during that period. 
How many times did the Council present advice to him during that period. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice. 
What provision is being made to provide financial assistance to the Wreck Bay Aboriginal Housing Company by way of (a) grant and (b) loan during 1975-76. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What provision is being made to provide financial assistance to Aboriginal Islands Products Pty Ltd and Applied Ecology Pry Ltd by way of (a) grant and (b) loan during 1975-76. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
What are the details of the program submitted by the South Australian Government for approval under the terms of the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act,  1 974 to enable that State Government to acquire land for nature conservation. 
What specific proposals will the Australian Government finance under the Act 
What is the estimated cost of each proposal. 
What proposals were approved in principle by his predecessor, the  Hon.  Moss Cass. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the details of the program submitted by the Victorian Government for approval under the terms of the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 to enable that State Government to acquire land for nature conservation. 
What specific proposals will the Australian Government finance under the Act. 
) What is the estimated cost of each proposal. 
What proposals were approved in principle by his predecessor, the Honourable Moss Cass. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the details of the program submitted by the Western Australian Government for approval under the terms of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 to enable that State Government to acquire land for nature conservation. 
What specific proposals will the Australian Government finance under the Act. 
What is the estimated cost of each proposal. 
What proposals were approved in principle by his predecessor, the Honourable Moss Cass. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the details of the program submitted by the Tasmanian Government for approval under the terms of the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 to enable that State Government to acquire land for nature conservation. 
What specific proposals will the Australian Government finance under the Act. 
) What is the estimated cost of each proposal. 
What proposals were approved in principle by his predecessor, the  Hon.  Moss Cass. 
asked the  Minister for  Environment, upon notice: 
What are the details of the program submitted by the Queensland Government for approval under the terms of the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 to enable that State Government to acquire land for nature conservation. 
What specific proposals will the Australian Government finance under the Act. 
What is the estimated cost of each proposal. 
What proposals were approved in principle by his predecessor, the Honourable Moss Cass. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the details of the program submitted by the New South Wales Government for approval under the terms of the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 to enable that State Government to acquire land for nature conservation. 
What specific proposals will the Australian Government finance under the Act. 
What is the estimated cost of each proposal. 
What proposals were approved in principle by his predecessor, the Honourable Moss Cass. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls  ) put: 
That the question be now put. 
-On behalf of the great number of parents and boys in the electorate of Gwydir, I want to make a special plea to the Government to reconsider the reintroduction of cadet training in schools. I have received a great number of letters from parents. I have conveyed those letters to the Minister of Defence  (Mr Morrison).  I personally support the review of the decision that was taken by the Government, apparently on the advice of the Chiefs of Staff but against the advice of a further report that was made available to the Government. 
A large number of young boys at high schools, private schools and elsewhere have expressed a great concern that the Government has taken this decision. No doubt it was taken against a background of economic difficulties and of shortage of finance to provide a continuation of this training. But clearly the cadet system has provided a tremendous discipline of training. It has given very many boys at schools an opportunity to learn something of the basics of military training. Those of us who can remember the last war will recall that a great number of those boys who had gone through cadet training were advantaged when they enlisted to serve their country and saw service in the last war. At least they had basic training. When they went into formal military training, they had an advantage over those who had not had cadet training. 
I wish to read to the House a letter I received from the headmaster at the Moree High School. It is dated 9 September 1975 and is addressed to me. The letter reads: 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  accused the Opposition of humbug for not supporting this rather complex piece of legislation. He accused us of not trying to facilitate for the Australian people an easier method of voting. I accuse the Government of humbug because since this Government came to power it has successfully eliminated no fewer than 900 polling places around Australia thus making it more difficult for thousands of people to cast their votes. In the electorate of Gwydir, which I represent, no fewer than 24 polling places have been abolished. In South Australia there is the notable case of one polling place being abolished so that now the electors of that small community will have to travel 275 miles to a polling place to cast a vote, then come all that way home. Let us not have this nonsense. This Government is not trying to make it easier for people to vote; that is absolute rubbish. 
-When I was the Minister for the Interior I did not abolish the polling places to the extent that this Government has abolished polling places. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie knows jolly well that the argument that was put forward by the Minister for Housing and Construction, who is at the table, does not stand up to proper scrutiny and examination. Polling places have been abolished in small community centres throughout Australia. In my electorate in places such as Boolcarro] - 
I mention places such as Cubaroo. You do not like it; that is the truth. 
-This Bill, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has indicated, principally provides for the closing of polling booths at 6 p.m. in lieu of 8 p.m., the drawing of positions on the House of Representatives ballot paper, increasing deposits for nomination and changing the formula relating to forfeiture of deposits. I would like to devote my few remarks to the first 2 items and to deal firstly with the 6 p.m. closing. I know that there is a differing view in the Parliament on this issue. I draw to the attention of the House the great need to try to maintain the 8 p.m. closing. The proposal to shorten polling hours for Federal elections and referendums is not a new thought. It has been considered by previous governments. 
Although it is recognised that the closing of booths at 6 p.m. would lighten the load on polling officials and would enable progressive voting results to be known earlier on the evening of polling day, it is felt and was always felt- and I firmly believe this- that under the compulsory voting system the full 12 hours for polling is justified and any move to reduce those hours would be met with complaints from electors, particularly by electors in the area that I represent. There is evidence that in rural areas particularly many electors wish to avail themselves of as much daylight working time as possible leaving their voting until after completion of a day's work, which is very often after 6 p.m. 
-Another factor - 
Yes, I know. I would not expect the honourable member to have much understanding of the problem about which I am talking. I do not blame him because he has not had to experience it. Clearly we are facing a greater dimension to our problem. More than 900 polling booths have been closed in the last few months. 
I am saying it now because it is relevant to the point that needs to be aired in the debate on this Bill. The honourable member for Wilmot is chirping away like a canary. I do not know that he knows what he is talking about either. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Now that the Government has resolved the claims of the Gurindji over land adjacent to Wattie Creek, when will the Government similarly resolve the claims of the Larrakeah Tribe over a considerable portion of Darwin. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
By what percentage have 'municipal' rates in the A.C.T. risen since the change of government in December 1972. 
What are the details of these increases for each financial year. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Government of New South Wales propose a co-operative approach to handling the expected overflow from Canberra into adjacent areas of New South Wales. 
If so, was such a proposal rejected; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he, together with the Minister for the Capital Territory, authorise the publication of a report by the National Capital Development Commission entitled  Planning for Canberra's Future Growth and Development  published in the  Canberra Times  of 13 August 1975. 
If so, did this report state that the Australian Constitution (sub-section 51 (xxxi)) refers to the powers of the Australian Parliament to make laws with respect to 'the acquisition of property on just terms from any State or person for any purpose in respect of which the Parliament has power to make laws' and the compensation paid for land acquired in any area ceded by New South Wales would be based on this premise. 
If so, can residents of the area affected accept this as an assurance that any land acquisitions in the area concerned will take place under the Lands Acquisition Act and that no special legislation would be proposed if the area becomes a Territory. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Will he permit the National Capital Development Commission to give evidence to the public inquiry set up by the New South Wales Government to inquire into over the border growth from the A.C.T. into New South Wales; 
If not, why not. 

 -Mr. Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented and wish to make a personal explanation. The Minister for Northern Australia  (Mr Keating)  stated in his reply to a question that in spite of 23 years of Liberal Country Party government no effort was made to grant executive authority to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the extent of rainforest remaining in Australia. 
Are the rainforests being depleted. 
If so, what is the rate of depletion. 
Are any studies being made of rainforests ecosystems. 
Is there any legislation, Federal or State, designed to protect rainforests. 
Are there any areas of rainforest protected in National Parks. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How many bank premises were tendered for by the Commonwealth Trading Bank during 1 975 to date. 
How many new Commonwealth Trading Bank premises have been constructed throughout Australia during the last 2 years. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he supply details of all payments from the vote 'Other Services- Support for Aboriginal Sporting Activities' during 1974-75. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he publish and distribute the minutes of the N.A.C.C. meetings so that Aboriginal communities are fully informed as to what their representatives have been doing at the various N.A.C.C. Conferences; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the current position regarding the Pharmacy Guild of Australia and the Australian Government and the matters in dispute resulting from the Scott Report. 
Has an arbitrator been appointed. 
Will the Government, which purports to believe in the fairness and justice of the arbitration system, honour the resulting determination. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he, his Department or the Government commission a firm of consultants to undertake a survey of public opinion in regard to sand mining on Fraser Island. 
If so, what was (a) the name of the firm and (b) the cost of the survey and what were the findings of the survey. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Else-Mitchell Report on Land Tenure propose that land disposed of for residential purposes should be granted on the basis of fee simple title subject to improvement convenants and the reservation of development rights. 
If so, is this recommendation to be applied to residential land in the areas of New South Wales which are proposed to be used for Canberra growth by extending the borders of the A.C.T.; if not, why not. 
Is a statement of the Government's position in relation to all the recommendations of the Else-Mitchell Report to be made; if so, when. 
-Needless to say the Opposition does approve and support the Bill and the efforts of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren). 
And the efforts of the Minister for the Capital Territory to get together with the New South Wales Government to overcome a source of pollution that has been causing some concern in the Molonglo River and also in Lake Burley Griffin itself. Fortunately one does not get too upset when the Minister for the Capital Territory is uncharitable because he always does it with a great big grin on his face and nobody takes him too seriously. But if one did, one would assume that the Liberal-Country Party governments in the previous 23 years had not done a thing, that we were slow learners and that we had not achieved much at all. The truth of the matter is that we would not have an Australian Capital Territory and the Minister would not even have had a portfolio to administer, a city to administer or Lake Burley Griffin to worry about, had it not been for the activities of former Liberal-Country Party governments and indeed a former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, who did so much to make the national capital a city of international significance. 
Clearly it has been only in the last four or five years that the extent of the pollution from the Captains Flat area became fully known. I do not take anything away from the Government in respect of its efforts to try to get to the source of the problem. I think that the Government has acted very wisely and the agreement that has been reached with the New South Wales Government for the abatement of pollution at Captains Flat is a very good one indeed. I give the Ministers, particularly the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Minister for the Capital Territory, full credit for what they have done. I note that the New South Wales Government plans to approve a contract in the next few weeks and this should allow remedial works to be completed in substantial measure before next winter. The sooner,, of course, these works are carried out the sooner we can overcome and try to head off the growing pollution problem that has been occurring in the Molonglo River and also in Lake Burley Griffin itself. The Opposition does support the Bill and commends it to the House. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Of the 212 Aborigines living at Wattie Creek, how many are participants in the Muramulla Gurindji Pastoral Company or are dependants of participants. 
How many are members of the Mudbra tribe, and have they any interest in the Northern Territory Pastoral Lease No. 80S. 
Where is the traditional land of the Mudbra tribe. 
What action is being taken for the provision of land for the Mudbra tribe. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to the Auditor-General's report on expenditure by the Arts Council on luncheons, how much of the $24,000, said to have been spent on luncheons, was spent by each Board, and how much was spent by the administration. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the cost of compensation for acquisition of land affected by the National Capital Development Commission's proposal to extend the boundaries of the A.C.T. been calculated; if so what is the estimated cost. 
If not, is this another example of a Government agency embarking on a potentially inflationary scheme without assessing the cost to the nation as a whole. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the details of developments in connection with properties which were purchased for Aborigines with public funds. 
In particular (a) what is the extent to which any economic purposes have been achieved and (b) what are the details of any defaults in repayment of interest on loans. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs upon notice: 
What was the cost of the purchase of 10 960 square kilometres of pastoral properties in the Northern Territory for Aborigines. 
What properties were purchased, where are they, and what did they cost respectively. 
Were any properties other than pastoral leases purchased. 
What is the estimate cost of the 929 1 square kilometres now being negotiated and how much of the appropriation of $2.8 million to the Aboriginal Land Fund for 1975-76 will this absorb. 
What properties have been purchased for Aborigines in each State and what was the cost of purchase in each case. 
What properties in each State are now being negotiated for purchase for Aborigines and what is their size and estimated cost. 
The Government is concerned about any possible outbreak of blue tongue. Arrangements have been made for officers of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to go to the Animal Research Laboratory at Onderstepoort in South Africa to purify seventeen known strains of the virus. The strains will be further purified and stored in maximum security at the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in Victoria. There is no chance of the virus escaping from that establishment. It will be handled with great care. Certainly it will not be inoculated into animals either domestic or laboratory. The virus will be stored in the Laboratory so that we will have available processes that would enable us to produce appropriate vaccines in the event of an outbreak of blue tongue in this country. 
-Pursuant to section 33 of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Act 1973 I present the AuditorGeneral's report on the statement of receipts and payments for the Hospitals and Health Services Commission for the year ended 30 June 1975. The financial statement referred to in paragraph 2 of the Auditor-General's report was tabled in the Parliament together with the report of the Commission on 4 November 1 975. 
-For the information of honourable members I present volume 2 of the first main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty together with a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to that report. 
The proposal which the Opposition has brought before the House for discussion of a matter of public importance could be deemed to be a time wasting exercise in political futility. The frustrations from which members of the Opposition are so manifestly suffering in their refusal to come to grips with political reality, with the issues which were put before the Australian electorate on 13 December and with the decisive answer which the electors gave lead them to create phantom issues like the subject matter today and to conduct a meaningless charade of tilting at political windmills. In the view of the Government, the electorate on 2 occasions gave decisive answers to the concept of a national health insurance scheme. The issue was well debated in this House, as it should have been. It was debated throughout the community. 
The Liberal and National Country Parties accept this position. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and I have consistently said that Medibank will be retained. I quote from the Governor-General's Speech. Needless to say, not too many members opposite heard it. Let me quote from it. They did not go to the other chamber to hear it, so let me quote it to them. This is what he said. 
Funny boy. Listen. You have the hearing aid on, so listen. The Governor-General said: 
Medibank will be retained and the Government will ensure it operates efficiently. The Medibank Review Committee has been established to examine the program in this respect. 
I hope you heard it. The Government has established a committee to conduct an investigation into the operation of Medibank. The Prime Minister in a Press statement of 1 3 January said: 
The Federal Government will conduct an investigation into the operation of Medibank. The investigation will be undertaken by a team to be chaired by  Mr Austin  Holmes the Director of the Priorities Review Staff of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. Other members of the team will be  Dr Sidney  Sax who is being seconded specifically from his position as  Chairman  of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission for this purpose, and  Mr Neil  Hyden, an Assistant Secretary from the Treasury. 
It is the Government's policy to maintain Medibank. 
The investigation team, which will be serviced by the Department of Health, will report in the first instance on opportunities for improved efficiency in the running of Medibank. 
Medibank will involve expenditure approaching $ 1 ,500m this year which would make it one of the largest single cost items for the Government approaching closely the nation's defence budget. The Department of Health estimate for 1976-77 is over $2,000m. 
It is a new and expensive program and it is appropriate that its operation should be reviewed at this stage so that taxpayers can be assured they are getting good value for money from it. 
The Government is becoming increasingly concerned, as are members of the public and the medical and allied professions, at repeated reports of abuse of Medibank. 
It is important that these reports be examined as soon as possible. 
The Government is not alone in suggesting the importance of an investigation of Medibank. 
The Health Insurance Commission, which closely monitors the scheme, is concerned about certain aspects of its operation. 
The investigation of Medibank will be in addition to the review of Government expenditure being undertaken by the Administrative Review Committee, under the Chairmanship of  Sir Henry  Bland, which the Prime Minister announced on December 21. That Committee's area of enquiry did not extend to Medibank. 
There will be a close involvement of the States in the investigation since they have a primary responsibility in the provision of health services. 
I will read to the House and to members of the public who are listening to this debate the terms of reference of the Medibank review. They are: 
To examine the operations of the Health Insurance Program (Medibank) and to report to Cabinet through the Minister for Health on 
a ) policy options available for controlling the cost of the Program; 
opportunities for administrative savings in the operations of the Program. 
To indentify, in each case, the consequences of implementing the various options and the economies likely to result therefrom. 
To have regard to the Government's desire to provide the most effective and efficient system of high quality health services delivery. 
That report will come to the Government by the end of May. The Medibank Review Committee will report to me progressively during the course of its inquiry. The 3 eminent and distinguished people on the Committee have already taken considerable evidence. They have had discussions with State health officials, members of the Australian Medical Association and other interested people and groups. 
To make clear that there is no confusion on my part I would like to read to the House the text of a Press statement in respect of the Medibank Review Committee that I released on 27 January. It states: 
The Minister for Health,  Mr Ralph  Hunt, today announced that the Medibank Review Committee appointed by the Commonwealth Government to review the operations of the Australian Health Insurance Program (Medibank) was advertising nationally for submissions from all who might be able to assist the Committee in carrying out its review. 

 Mr Hunt went on to say that while the Committee would report in the first instance on opportunities for improved efficiency in the running of Medibank, it had been given wide-ranging terms of reference and he hoped that anyone who had suggestions for alterations or improvements to Medibank would notify the Committee. 
Advertisements have been placed in the national Press asking for people, groups and associations to put views. I have received dozens and dozens of letters from people with views and ideas on this matter, most of which have gone across to the Committee for consideration. 
The Medibank scheme as a national health insurance scheme has its good features in that it sets out to ensure that no one, regardless of social or financial status, is denied access to health care. The former scheme that was introduced by the Liberal and National Country Parties attempted to achieve this objective but, of course, it had its imperfections. Attempts have been made over the years to try to overcome these imperfections and to get a perfect scheme. But already there have been reports of abuse of Medibank by doctors, pathologists and radiologists and overuse by patients. We have no proof of this. I have not seen any proof that these reports are correct. However, any health scheme that will cost the Australian taxpayers somewhere between $l,400m and $l,500m, including administration costs in a full year, surely is in need of the closest scrutiny. Estimates indicate that in the next financial year the cost could be as high as $2,000m. If there is abuse, I do not think that any Government with any sense of responsibility could stand back and let people rip off funds at the expense of the community. 
As I say, let us find out whether the scheme is being abused. Let us tighten up the system, if it needs to be tightened up to stop people bludging on the system. The scheme brings the States, the Commonwealth Government, the medical profession, the nursing profession and those responsible for health care into one great partnership. If any one of the members of this partnership fails to co-operate the scheme will fail in some areas, if not in total. 
The Labor Government got Medibank off the ground in record time. It established Medibank centres, many of which I have already visited. I must say that I would regard the establishment of these centres if nothing else as one of the greatest electronic achievements in Australian history. It is incredible that they were established in such a short time. Although the Labor Government got the scheme under way not all the States, and certainly not all sections of the medical profession, were happy. I think that something must be done in respect of the unhappy areas in the scheme that we have inherited. 
A big responsibility falls on the Minister for Health and the Government to obtain the full cooperation of the States, the medical profession and those responsible for health care and the delivery of health services to ensure that the people have the most effective, efficient and economic scheme available to them. Beyond that, I do not wish to pursue the arguments that have been made by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  The Government has no intention whatsoever of pre-empting the recommendations of the Medibank Review Committee. Members of the Government will keep an open mind so that we can approach our task in an objective manner. 
I want to lay at rest the doubts that the Opposition has endeavoured to create. Once again let me quote from the Governor-General's Speech, the speech delivered in the other chamber that was not heard by any Opposition member. It reads: 
Medibank will be retained and the Government will ensure it operates efficiently. The Medibank Review Committee has been established to examine the program in this respect. 
So,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I think you can write off the Opposition's case as a very little bit of huff and puff. I dismiss the matter of public importance for the reasons I have outlined in my reply to the honourable member for Maribyrnong. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In the present economic situation the Government has found it necessary to consider all available means of reducing Government expenditure. This Bill will amend the National Health Act to implement certain decisions taken after its review of expenditure in the public sector, and announced on 4 and 6 February. Firstly, the Bill provides for an increase from $1.50 to $2, with effect from 1 March, in the general patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits. As in the past, eligible pensioners- that is those holding a pensioner health benefits card- will not be charged for their pharmaceutical benefits. Similarly, no charge will be made for repatriation prescriptions. Secondly, the Bill provides for the removal of the pharmaceutical benefits concession for beneficiaries under the subsidised health benefits plan. 
The purpose of the plan was to provide assistance to eligible persons in meeting the fees charged for medical services, public ward hospital treatment and for certain drugs and medicines. Eligible persons comprise certain low income families, persons in receipt of social security, unemployment, sickness and special benefits, and migrants during their first 2 months in Australia. As honourable members will be aware, under Medibank all persons are entitled to receive medical benefits payable at the rate of at least 85 per cent of the scheduled fees and free standard bed treatment in public hospitals. The introduction of these Medibank arrangements in all States and Territories throughout Australia has rendered the medical and hospital assistance component of the subsidised health benefits plan redundant. Continuation of the plan, purely for pharmaceutical benefits purposes, can no longer be justified as it is estimated to cost $1.3m per year to administer, compared with $700,000 as the value of the benefits. The Bill will remove the concession and will also repeal the redundant provisions of the Act authorising the subsidised health benefits plan itself. 
The increase in the patient contribution is one of the means by which the increasing expenditure of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme can be reduced. This increase, together with the removal of the concession for subsidised health benefits plan beneficiaries, will result in a saving of $5. 6m in this financial year, and $2 4m in a full year. Thirdly, the Bill provides for the termination from 1 April 1976 of Commonwealth hospital benefits, authorised by Part V of the National Health Act. The benefits which will cease to be payable are: $2 a day, payable under sub-section 46 ( 1 ) of the Act for patients who are contributors to registered hospital benefits organisations; 80 cents a day, payable under sub-section 53(1) of the Act, for uninsured patients in approved hospitals; $5 a day, payable under sub-section 54(1) of the Act, for pensioners who receive free treatment in public hospitals; and $2 a day, payable under section 55 A of the Act, where an approved hospital does not raise a charge for a patient. 
The termination of these benefits is expected to save the Commonwealth Government $2. 5m during the remainder of this financial year and $ 12m in a full year. It is estimated that there will be a saving in the order of $5m to the States in a full year. Most of the savings will result from the termination of the payment of the $2 a day benefit under section 46 of the Act. This is because the other benefits have already been subsumed, under the Commonwealth-State Medibank hospital agreements, with respect to patients in hospitals covered by those agreements. Registered hospital benefits organisations will be requested to provide additional hospital insurance benefits to cover the increased cost of hospital treatment arising from the termination of these benefits. At this time it is estimated that the extra cost to contributors of these organisations will be small- in the region of 10 to 12 cents per week family contribution. With the introduction on 1 July 1975 of Medibank medical benefits authorised by the Health Insurance Act, the payment of Commonwealth medical benefits authorised by the National Health Act was ceased. Provision is also made in the Bill to validate the cessation of those payments. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  1.2  to  2.15  p.m. 
Once again the Government will not accept the Opposition's suggestion, but I take note of the points that the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  made. He suggested ways in which improvements should be made to the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. If he is interested in making a written submission to me on the matter I will be very pleased to look at his contribution in the course of a review. However, the Government cannot accept the Opposition's proposal. I understand that there is to be a division on this matter so I will let it rest. 
Question put- 
That the clauses be agreed to. 
-First of all I would like to thank the speakers who have taken part in this debate for the constructive contributions they have made to it. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  appealed to the Government to withdraw and redraft this legislation in the light of his Party's opposition to clause 12 of the Bill which provides for an increase of 50c in the patient contribution under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme and the removal of the 75c concession for those on subsidised benefits. Of course, this will not apply to eligible pensioners. However, since this measure is one of the results of the general economic review undertaken by this Government we are unable to do what the honourable member suggests. The Government has announced that savings of $24m will be made in this pharmaceutical contribution area and of about $14m in the pharmaceutical benefits area. So the Government is unable at the present time to give consideration to that proposition. 
As I said in my second reading speech, in the present economic situation the Government has found it necessary to consider all available means of reducing government expenditure. This Bill sets out to amend the National Health Act to implement certain decisions taken after the Government's review of expenditure in the public sector, and the provisions in the Bill were broadly announced on 4 and 6 February. No Minister likes to put forward as his first piece of legislation a Bill imposing additional charges on people but, as I said earlier, this Bill results from the problem which the Government has inherited. We were facing an overall deficit of $4,700m and the Government in its wisdom sought to review spending in the public sector in all departments. As a consequence this legislation is before us. 
The other purpose of the legislation is to remove certain redundant provisions of the National Health Act, and I refer principally to the payment of 80c a day in respect of uninsured patients in approved hospitals, the $5 a day payable in respect of pensioners in public hospitals and the $2 a day payable in cases where the hospital does not raise a charge for a patient. The total cost of those 3 items in a full year is somewhere between $54,000 and $60,000. Of course there is then the administrative problem created by leaving such redundant provisions in legislation. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  made a very valuable contribution to the debate and I have noted the views that he has outlined. He mentioned the free issue of pharmaceutical lines at the outpatients' departments in public hospitals. As he probably knows, this provision is cost-shared with the States under the hospitals' Medibank agreements with the States, and the Medibank Review Committee will be looking at the area that the honourable member has mentioned in carrying out a comprehensive review of the operations of Medibank. He also mentioned pharmacists and I know that as a pharmacist he has a very special knowledge of this area. He acknowledged that I will be conferring with the Pharmacy Guild of Australia on 10 and 1 1 March, a 2-day meeting to discuss an agenda of matters with the Guild, particularly the outstanding matters that have been concerning the Guild membership for some time. 
I thank the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  for his contribution and his compliments to me. He argued strongly for the deletion of the subsidised items under the pharmaceutical benefits plan and I think he was on sound ground because of the anomaly that would have existed had we left the situation as it was. I want to relate in more detail to the House why the Government felt it necessary to remove this provision. The subsidised health benefits plan was introduced on 1 January 1970 to provide free hospital and medical insurance to people who would suffer hardship in the payment of contributions. These people include those on unemployment, sickness or special benefits paid under the Social Services Act, migrants during their first 2 months in Australia and families on low incomes. Assessment of eligibility under the subsidised health benefits plan and the issue of SHB entitlement certificates are carried out by the Department of Social Security, not the Department of Health, in respect of all these groups with the exception of migrants whose certificates are issued by the Department of Immigration. 
The $1.3m cost of administering the subsidised health benefits plan is met by the Department of Social Security which carries out assessments of the beneficiaries and issues the SHB certificates. Although the $1.3m administrative costs could be justified if the administrative machinery was required for the full range of benefits which were previously provided under the full SHB plan which, prior to Medibank, included medical and hospital benefits, they cannot now be justified in respect of the patient contribution concession on pharmaceutical benefits alone. The amount of $ 1.3m would be sufficiently accurate as these costs can be identified with the Department of Social Security. 
There is another reason why it was felt necessary that this situation should be covered. There are some basic shortcomings in the present subsidised health benefits plan. For example, in many cases the entitlement for benefits is not clear cut at the time at which the application for benefits under the plan is made and there can be consequent delays in finalising the assessment and issue of a subsidised health benefits certificate. In some cases, especially for unemployment and sickness beneficiaries, this has resulted in beneficiaries receiving their entitlement certificates very late in the eligibility period and even after the expiration of the eligibility period. Hence the patient is not able to avail himself of the reduced patient contribution concession for pharmaceutical benefits at the time he most needs it. I think most of us who have been in the House for some time have had representations made to us by people in our electorates who have complained of that very fact. There are no provisions in the National Health Act for retrospective adjustments of the patient contribution to be made, nor is it considered to be practical to incorporate such provisions in the legislation. 
The details of the number of prescriptions for each of the last 3 years for the SHB beneficiaries and the estimate for the 1 975-76 year prior to the proposed amendments are as follows: 1972-73, 448 000; 1973-74, 595 000; 1974-75, 883 000; and the estimate for this year is about 920 000. When that figure is compared with the current total annual prescription volume, which is in excess of 100 million, it can be seen that the number of SHB prescriptions is not as important as it might appear to be on the surface, although in four or five years the number of prescriptions in that area has doubled. 
The honourable member for Petrie I think also suggested that there should be a review of the whole pharmaceutical benefits scheme. I think it is necessary to understand that the present pharmaceutical benefits scheme is costing the Australian taxpayer and the Australian Government $250m. The cost has risen to that figure quite alarmingly, in my view, in the last five or six years. One would be inclined to think that the doctors and the patients are having a rattling good time dispensing pills. If we look at the total cost of the scheme at present and consider that the patients themselves will be contributing $2 towards the cost of a prescription, I think we can see that the time has come when there is a need for a review of the whole plan. I want to assure the honourable member for Petrie that I have already put in process a departmental review to examine the whole area and to provide policy options to the Government. 
It appears to me that no one section of the community is happy with the pharmaceutical benefits plan. I have just mentioned the rising public expenditure involved in it. The pharmacists are not happy with their dispensing fees. The pharmaceutical manufacturing companies are not happy with the prices that the Department establishes for the items on the list. But in my view the Government has to adopt a basic position, and that is to ensure, firstly, that the system provides drugs essential to life and the welfare of every person regardless of his financial position, secondly, that pharmaceutical items are of the highest quality- I am sure that the Department of Health has done a tremendous job in that area- thirdly, that they are available at a reasonable price- nobody can claim that the Department of Health has not done a good job in that area- and, fourthly, there is also the necessity for the maintenance of a viable pharmaceutical manufacturing industry which has sufficient resources to carry out research and to keep pace with the needs of the community. In that context I would hope that in the not too distant future the Industries Assistance Commission will be bringing down its report on the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry. It is against that background that I hope that the review will be conducted. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  mentioned the danger of overprescribing by doctors and the danger of over use of drugs by patients. He also pointed to the problem that could occur if the list is shortened too much. That could result in increased costs of items that are not on the list but which are probably necessary for general health care. I believe that all factors need to be taken into account in looking at the alternatives that will be available to the Government in relation to the pharmaceutical benefits plan. I just want to make it clear that the Government has to proceed with this legislation. I repeat that it is a product of the general review that was undertaken by the Government a few weeks ago when it was found necessary to consider all available means of reducing government expenditure. I want to make it clear once again that it will not affect eligible pensioners, that is those holding a pensioners medical benefits entitlement card. They will not be charged for their pharmaceutical benefits, and there will be no charge for repatriation prescriptions. I think that point needs to be made very clear. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Pursuant to section 42(3) of the Health Insurance Commission Act 1973 I present the first annual report of the Health Insurance Commission for the period to 30 June 1 975. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Loan Bill (No. 2) as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Government is concerned about the incidence of cigarette smoking. A survey has indicated that 61.6 per cent of Australians do not smoke, which is a relatively small increase from a survey that was taken over 2 years ago. Although 750 000 people have given up cigarette smoking the survey also indicates that 33 per cent of girls aged between 16 and 19 years are smoking 10 cigarettes a day and approximately 23 per cent of boys are smoking that number of cigarettes a day. Although the anti-smoking campaign has been effective in certain age groups it is clear that there is still a very real problem amongst the younger people in this country. The Department of Health leaves no doubt in anybody's mind that cigarette smoking is a very serious cause of lung cancer and coronary heart diseases. In fact the Department claims that 1 1 000 people die in a year as a direct result of cigarette smoking. 
The honourable member for Riverina raised the question of alcohol. One man in every twenty and one woman in every one hundred are suffering from alcoholism in Australia. I suppose it is one of the most serious health problems in this country. It is the fourth major public health problem. Honourable members may be interested in some statistics which were handed to me by  Dr Mickleburgh  of the Australian Capital Territory. He claims that excessive alcoholism is the major cause of the occupancy of one in 5 hospital beds, one in 5 battered children, one in 5 drownings and submersion cases, two in5 divorces and judicial separations, about half the serious crimes in the community, half the deaths from road crashes, half the deaths from pancreatic diseases and two of 3 deaths from cirrhosis of the liver, reduced resistance to a wide range of illness as yet largely unmeasured - 
Losses to industry from work absences, accidents - 
I am aware that the exemption rate has not been increased beyond $20 since September 1972. At that time a pensioner was able to earn, before his pension was reduced, $ 10 a week. In the case of a married couple, the amount had increased, I think, from $17 to $34.50. For each child in the care, custody and control of the pensioner, the pensioner is able to earn $6 a week extra without affecting the rate of pension he receives. The Government is well aware of the serious problem that inflation has caused and the serious problem that the former Government caused for people in that situation. There is no doubt that inflation rose from about 4.7 per cent to no less than 16 per cent or 17 per cent at one stage. As a consequence of the inflationary problem the Government is putting measures in train to overcome the fundamental economic problems, and provide a more sound basis for improvements in social welfare. The income security review group is presently examining all aspects of the Australian income security system and will undoubtedly make recommendations to the Government as soon as policy options are available to it. We would hope that, with the control of inflation and with a proper review of the present situation, the people will be relieved of the problem that we have inherited from the former Government. 
As soon as I heard this report this morning I contacted my department and my department contacted the New South Wales Health Commission. Discussions have taken place during the morning. We have found that the boy, Anthony Vandermolen was treated at the Sydney Eye Hospital which is a recognised 
State hospital for the purposes of our Medibank cost share arrangement. 
-Well, Australia's. Advice has just been received as a result of these discussions that the hospital has a continuing responsibility to the child for the provision of an artificial eye and the New South Wales Health Commission is arranging for the boy to continue to receive the services of the hospital without charge, including the provision of an artificial eye. As far as I know the parents have not yet been told but an attempt was made to reach them just after lunch. So from Anthony Vandermolen's point of view the case has been happily resolved. Medibank does pay for this service and the agreement with New South Wales provides in these circumstances for the cost to be shared between the 2 governments, the Commonwealth Government and the New South Wales Government. 
I was wrong this morning because I did not know the full facts and I think that a lot of people were not sure what the arrangement was in respect of this hospital. There are some hospitals that would not be covered by this arrangement. What we did not know from the Press reports was the hospital at which the child was a patient. However, it has all been happily resolved and I am sure that the parents and the boy will be very pleased. 
I have heard people say that one wants a hide like a rhinocerous before one even contemplates becoming the leader of a major political party in Australia. If that is a qualification then surely the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  qualifies. He has stood up in this Parliament and tried to tip the bucket over the Fraser Government because of- to use his own words- 'the serious permanent damage caused to the program for the development of early childhood services'. I listened with great curiosity and interest to the honourable member. I listened to his specious arguments in support of this matter of public importance, on behalf of an Opposition that brought the Australian economy into a state of ruin in its 3 years of government. When it was in government it brought about the highest constant inflation rate in Australia's history, the highest unemployment rate since a former Labor Government's dreadful efforts in the 1930s and the highest budget deficit on record. Economic mismanagement brought about great suffering in vast sections of the Australian community. The people knew full well what the previous Government did for them. They showed their response on 1 3 December last year when they threw out the socialist government because of its disastrous economic record and its lamentable failures. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith talked about the 600 applications. He said that the best we could do was to meet the cost of only 16 applications. He said that we approved only sixteen. The Labor Government consistently lifted the expectations and hopes of the Australian people and consistently dumped them. There was no way in the world, with the economic situation as it was- with a $4, 700m deficit -in which this Government or any other government could have met the ambitious forecasts that were made at the time the Children's Commission Bill was debated. The Fraser Government is concerned about the welfare of children. Although the former Government introduced the legislation in May 1975 and it received royal assent on 11 June 1975, the Act was not proclaimed. So no commission was appointed. Then there was the double dissolution. On coming into office we inherited a far worse economic situation than we had at first thought. So the Government had to put in train certain ways and means of trying to cut government expenditures in certain places. It established the Bland committee of inquiry to review government administration. The Government is awaiting the report of the Administrative Review Committee before deciding its attitudes to the future administrative arrangements for the childhood services program. The Bland committee is expected to report by the end of May. The Interim Committee for the Children's Commission, which was operating when this Government took office, is continuing in the meantime to administer the childhood services program. 
So it is wrong to try to give the impression to people generally that this Government has dumped the childhood services program. That statement was incorrect. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  appointed  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle as Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters. The Interim Committee is reporting to her. The reference to the Bland committee in no way implies lack of commitment by the Government to the childhood services program but rather a desire to see the most appropriate administrative machinery developed. There was a reduction of funds for the childhood services program by $9m. This was announced by the Minister not very long ago. 
It is all right for you to make an emotional statement. Clearly if the Labor Party had been in government, if by some miracle Labor had been returned on 13 December, it too would have found that the well was dry. The Labor Government had bled it dry. The honourable member referred to the poor little kids. What about their parents? We have had the highest level of unemployment on record. Many of the people who are unemployed are parents. The poor little children! The Labor Government was put out on 13 December because it made a mess of its own administration. It lifted the expectations of the Australian people to impossible heights and dashed them one by one. 
To bring into the House a matter of this nature at this time shows the ineptitude and the stupidity of an Opposition that is tearing itself inside out. To try to put some rationality into this debate let me read from the Press statement of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters. It reads: 
She said that the Federal Government was giving top priority to providing child care in high needs areas with the remaining finance available for new childhood services programs this financial year. 
It was true that a large proportion of the $65m available for childhood services in 1975-76 was already committed to pre-school projects. 
But recurrent funding, in the form of 75 per cent of salaries of agreed pre-school staff, would be paid from 1 January 1976 where the pre-schools had agreed to extend and integrate their services. 
In deciding to provide this assistance to pre-schools which agreed to integrate, the previous Government was anxious to make full use of a vastly under-used capital resource- preschool buildings- rather than spend large sums on new buildings. 
We agree with this policy of linking up existing services for children and bringing them together by making maximum use of Australia 's pre-school buildings. 
I think I need to make this point clear: The Prime Minister has given an undertaking that all commitments already approved by the Commonwealth for the remainder of the year are being fully met. This is evident from the Press statements issued on 4, 6 and 1 7 February. 
New centres which start before any formal approval of funding from the Commonwealth Government should not rely on automatic approval being given after they have started. Therefore the Prime Minister counselled that the safe thing to do, if they are dependent on Federal funding, is to make sure that approval is provided before they start operations and open their doors. I think he said that there may have been in the 5 centres in dispute a week or so ago an assumption that funds would be available. He said that certainly there was no approval from the previous Administration or from this Government. The Prime Minister said that in examining the 5 centres which it is suggested are in difficulty the Government will certainly be looking at those which are in most need and which are in needy areas where there is a particular requirement for child care centres. Grants for child care services for the remainder of this year will be announced and will continue to be announced by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  At the time the Prime Minister made these statements, a number of applications were under review. 
Clearly the former Government did not see the urgency in this matter because it did not proclaim its own legislation. It had time to do so. The legislation received royal assent on 1 1 June 1975. This Government has inherited an Interim Committee, is operating with this Interim Committee, is continuing with the program that was in train, and is honouring the undertakings where approvals had been granted. It was announced that there would be a $9m cut as part of a general necessity to reduce government spending, where it was possible to reduce it without bringing untold hardship to the people concerned. 
Yes, we have inherited a very serious situation. No incoming Government would like to inherit the situation by this Government. We have had to take decisions. I have had to take unhappy decisions in my own area of responsibility- health. I have inherited a pretty unhappy situation so far as the economy is concerned. Speaking of health, I am pleased to say that there is close cooperation with the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission in relation to areas within my own portfolio responsibility, particularly the community health program. A significant number of health services for children are being supported under that program at State request. In particular I would mention the early childhood development complexes in Victoria where both health and education services are contained. 
I want to make it perfectly clear to honourable members in this House that the Government is committed to the welfare of children and is concerned with their problems. We are also concerned with the total, overall economic position that confronts this country, because until we get the foundations of the economy soundly based there is no way in the world that we will be able to extend the services that are necessary to meet the basic needs of the average person. It was  Sir Winston  Churchill who once said, I think in 1938, that one of the great paradoxes of socialist governments is that from the day they assume office they tend to erode the foundations upon which private enterprise functions and thus destroy their own capacity to implement their ambitious social welfare programs. How appropriately that comment could be made against the former Whitlam Government. Its social welfare programs had plenty of merit, but in trying to implement them the former Government practically destroyed the whole foundations and the fabric of the Australian economy, which would have rendered impossible the discharge of even the most paltry assistance to areas of need. 
So it will take us some considerable time to rectify and to put into proper place the Australian economy so that it does generate wealth, so that wealth is available to be directed to the areas of need. The Prime Minister has consistently said that that will be the objective of the Fraser Government. I can assure honourable members that every man who sits on the Government benches is committed to ensuring that people in need in this country will have resources available to assist them. 
The present Government is examining this problem in the light of representations that have come to it. It is intended that we should adopt a policy that is fair and reasonable to all. The compensation code for Commonwealth employees was regarded by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government as the standard for workers' compensation generally. I understand that the former Government departed from this principle. I do not know why this was done. There is provision now in the Ordinance for automatic adjustments, but it is not contained in the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act. But whether the automatic adjustments of benefits should be provided for in compensation, that is, by the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) 
Act, is one of the questions that we need to consider. There is no mention of this type of arrangement in existing legislation or benefits included in the Social Services or Repatriation Acts. But if it is included in the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act and not another Act it could well create an anomalous situation. However, I thank the honourable member for Grey for the question. I should like to give him an assurance that the Minister is examining all the aspects and he can be assured that the Government, in accordance with its general policy and attitude, will adopt a very fair and reasonable attitude to Commonwealth employees. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Social Welfare Commission Act 1973 I present a Social Welfare Commission report on the Australian Assistance Plan, together with a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to that report. 
-I understand that the New South Wales Government has made a submission to the Medibank Review Committee. I have not seen it; it is a matter for the Medibank Review Committee. I could not give a direct answer on whether the New South Wales Government has made one or more submissions. With respect to the latter part of the honourable member's question, I have not yet given consideration to whether those reports ultimately will be made public. In due course the Medibank Review Committee will be reporting to the Government, through the Minister for Health, as a consequence of the many submissions that it has received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Health Policy Development Task Force of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission first met in September 1975. The Commission expects to forward the report to me during the present Parliamentary Session. 
When I receive the report I will consider the matter of its tabling. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
F.Perot and Co. 
Thirteen. It is not the usual practice to publish names of unsuccessful tenderers. 
No. 
Yes. However the terms of the tender require the provision of sufficient technical information for the National Acoustic Laboratory to maintain the hearing aids. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Section S 1 (xxiiiA) of the Constitution. 
to (4) The purchase was completed on 17 September 1975. The purchase agreement provided for the vendor to receive, inter alia, a pro rata share of the 1975-76 after-tax net profits. This amount will be calculated after the close of the 1975-76 financial year for payment about August 1976. It is the only part of the purchase price still to be paid. Payments made up to the present time by way of purchase price total $8,735,595. 
The Commonwealth of Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no record either in my Department or in the National Acoustic Laboratory of such a request having been made. If a formal request from a clinical audiologist is received all available relevant information will be made available. 
The Government acted upon the advice of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee in deleting certain items from the pharmaceutical benefit list. The milk substitute to which the honourable member referred was one of the items which was recommended for deletion. If the honourable member has any evidence that hardship is caused by this deletion I would be very pleased to refer it to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, but the Government acted on the advice of an expert body, in accordance with tradition. 
It is true that I have had a number of representations from pharmaceutical companies and pharmacists concerning the deletion of items from the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits as from 1 April 1976. Although there are no formal arrangements applying particular requirements to stocks of drugs to be available it is expected that the pharmaceutical companies and pharmacists should have adequate supplies. Indeed, it is in their own interests to have adequate stocks to meet demands. The pharmaceutical benefits pricing arrangements for chemists are based on chemists having on average about one month's stock of these items. I regret that the short notice has, in fact, caused some degree of hardship in the short term to some manufacturers. In most instances the pharmacists should experience a lesser problem of excess stocks as a little more than a month's advance notice was available to them. 
For practical purposes it was not possible to give more than a month's notice to the pharmaceutical manufacturers in view of the fact that the Government had to take decisions to reduce public expenditure at a time of very serious difficulties within the economy- difficulties that it inherited from the former Government. Immediate action was needed to meet the Government's required savings. It was not possible therefore to delay implementation of the changes on this occasion but I assure the honourable member and the House that every effort will be made to give more notice on any future occasion if that is practicable. I should like the honourable member and the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry to know that the Government is concerned for the welfare of that industry. The Department of Health is not directly responsible for the viability of the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry. The Department of Industry and Commerce has a responsibility in this area. In view of the difficulties being experienced I have asked that the Industries Assistance Commission expedite its report on its investigation, which has been going on for some considerable time, into the viability of the whole of the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry. 
First of all I should like to make it quite clear to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  that the decision taken by the Government has nothing to do with the problems of the dairy industry or with the New South Wales milk zone. The honourable member might be interested to know that his complaint originates from a recommendation made by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee in October last year during the dying days of the Administration of the Labor Government. The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee is an expert body. It is a statutory body of specialists which has been established to advise the Minister of the day on what items should be added to or deleted from the pharmaceutical benefits list. It is true that as the Minister for Health I approved the recommendation of the statutory body in good faith. The honourable member for Hughes and other honourable members of this House have brought to my attention some concern among those parents who have been using the substitute milk product for children who have been suffering from various forms of allergies. The reduction in the eligibility age of the children from 6 years to 18 months has been made in accordance with the recommendation to which I have just referred. 
The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee is a statutory body which was established to advise the Minister for Health on matters concerning the listing of products on the pharmaceutical benefits list. The Committee believes that cows milk substitutes are being used unnecessarily by many children and that, with few exceptions, after the age of 18 months milk substitutes no longer form an essential part of the child's diet. The Committee considers that alternative sources of protein are available to children over 18 months of age, and that was the Committee's recommendation. The Committee was also concerned that 80 per cent of the milk substitute was in fact being used in New South Wales, which indicated in its thinking an overusage of the substitute. 
I thank the honourable member for bringing this matter to my attention and for the effort that he is making on behalf of some of his constituents and some members of the medical profession in his own area who have been concerned about it. I invite him and other honourable members to forward to me these views and these complaints, and I shall ensure that they are transmitted to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. I have also requested the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee to discuss its recommendations on cows milk substitutes with the appropriate specialist bodies when it meets them in May. 
Under the present listing arrangements, parents can, up until 3 1 March, obtain sufficient repeats to enable them to have on hand a 6- months' supply of milk substitute, during which time there  will  be a complete review by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee in the light of the concern that is being expressed. I think that is the fairest thing that I can do. As the Minister for Health I have no  power  whatsoever to replace or to put on the pharmaceutical benefits list any item whatsoever. I have power, if it is recommended to me by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, to delete an item , but I have no power whatsoever to restore an item after the recommendation has been approved by me. I gave approval in good faith following the recommendation from the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee which met in October last year, which was during the term of the Labor Government; and it probably made its recommendations also in good faith. 
-I can refer it, and I shall be referring the complaints and the concern that the honourable member has expressed on behalf of his constituents and which other honourable members on both sides of the House have also expressed. I think that is the fairest and the kindest thing I can do in trying to satisfy the degree of concern which has become apparent as the result of that recommendation and my approval of it 
I have already had discussions with the Minister for Social Security who reaffirmed the Government's commitment to the abolition of the means test for all people over the age of 65 years, but she indicated that the Government's first priority is to the reduction of inflation and that it was not possible to indicate when the means test would be abolished. The article to which the honourable member has referred did not attribute to the Minister the statement that pensioners over 69 years are not subject to a means test. I am not sure what the person who wrote the article actually meant in using the term 'over 69'; presumably he meant that persons who are 70 years and older would be free of the means test. I can appreciate, as indeed the Minister for Social Security appreciates, that this could well have caused some confusion in the minds of people. Clearly the means test does not apply to people 70 years and over. As I said earlier, the Government's policy is, of course, to reduce this to 65 years when economic conditions allow us to do so. 
-The McMahon Liberal-Country Party Government provided financial support to nursing homes for elderly people so that the amount of pension kept by the patients was of the order of $6 a week, thus ensuring that they would have money for their own personal use. I believe that such a scheme ensured that the senior citizens in nursing homes were not deprived of their dignity and sense of independence. In the 3 years that the Labor Government was in office these aged people were robbed of the value of their savings through Labor's tragic economic policies of inflation, and the amount they could retain for their own spending was reduced from $6 a week to $4 a week in spite of inflation. In some cases relatives are now paying, as the honourable member for Isaacs has suggested, $30 a week to maintain relatives in these nursing homes. I believe that this demonstrated a callous disregard for the dignity of the elderly people in these nursing homes. We have inherited a very difficult situation. We face a Budget deficit of $4, 700m but notwithstanding the economic situation I am reviewing the whole of the nursing homes scheme and its attendant problems- problems that we have inheritedwith a view to finding a solution which is more equitable and humane for our elderly people. In this respect I will be having discussions with the 
Government Health and Welfare Committee about looking at a range of options that we can consider in trying to overcome the problems to which the honourable member for Isaacs has referred. 
I have seen the article to which the honourable member referred. Since I have been Minister I have received many letters of complaint about the Liverpool Women's Clinic, as well as some letters of support. I intend to visit the centre in the future to make my own assessment. In reply to the second part of the question, the former Commonwealth Government in 2 successive Budgets appropriated $424,500 to the clinic. The amounts were made available in the form of a 100 per cent grant with the approval of the New South Wales Health Commission. The funds have been channelled via the New South Wales Health Commission, which has the primary responsibility for the activities of the clinic. The article referred also to a court action that is proceeding. Of course, the matter is  sub judice;  the action is being undertaken under New South Wales laws. In respect of some of the activities that are alleged to be taking place, particularly in relation to the allegations regarding abortion, there is no specific item in the medical benefits schedule covering abortion as such, but the schedule does include a number of gynaecological procedures carried out for medical reasons which may result in the termination of a pregnancy. In those circumstances, of course, Medibank would pay the fee indicated in the schedule of benefits. However, I intend to have discussions with the New South Wales Minister. As I said earlier, I also intend to visit the centre to make my own assessment of the value of its continued operation. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The Wayside Chapel was approved for a grant under the Grants to Community Agencies Scheme on 27 February 1969. Under this Scheme, now administered by the Department of Social Security, a voluntary welfare agency may, if it meets certain criteria, be given a direct grant for the employment of a social worker to work among immigrants. The grant covers the salary of the social worker and ancillary costs. The grant social worker position was occupied from 30 May 1969 to 18 September 1970, from 1 May 1972 to 9 May 1974, and from16 May 1974 to 20 December 1974 and payments were made for these periods. The grant was withdrawn as from 21 December 1974, since assessment of the operation of the grant showed that the agency had ceased to meet the criteria of the Scheme. Details of payments made accordingly under the Scheme over the last 5 financial years are- 
I have had one series of discussions with representatives of the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association to try to assure them that this Government was not in the business of driving the private practitioners out of the Australian Capital Territory and that we were trying to ensure that there would be proper co-operation between the private practitioners of 
Canberra and members of the salaried medical staff. In the very near future I will be talking with the salaried members of the medical staff of our 2 hospitals, who I might say have done a splendid job. The Australian Capital Territory is short of medical officers and there is an even greater shortage in the Northern Territory. I am very conscious of the shortage of medical staff in the Australian Capital Territory. I am also very conscious of the great need to get the sort of teamwork that is necessary between private practitioners and the salaried practitioners in Canberra. Of course, we cannot make any final determinations as to what changes may be made or will be made in the Australian Capital Territory until the Medibank review committee reports to the Government. 
I shall have discussions with the Minister for Social Security and bring to her attention the substance of the question asked by the honourable member for Fraser. Clearly he is concerned that the staff cuts could affect the operation of the hostel for intellectually handicapped children at Bruce. I shall convey his concern to the Minister and give him a reply in due course. 
The ban on cigarette and cigarette tobacco advertising will apply only to the media under Federal jurisdiction, namely, the electronic media. At the State Health Ministers conference last year it was agreed to work towards uniform legislation to control cigarette advertising in newspapers, magazines, handbills, pamphlets, leaflets, cinema slides, theatres and by any other means. I understand that the committee looking into this matter will be reporting to the Australian Health Ministers Conference in June this year on the progress it has made in achieving uniform legislation to cover the areas that are outside Commonwealth jurisdiction. 
At least 2 newspapers this morning reported that I was acting in the area of banning cigarette advertising outside the electronic media region. This was quite untrue. The Commonwealth has powers open to it to exercise a control over advertising on only the electronic media through the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The States have powers to control other forms of advertising. It was for that reason that at the State Health Ministers' Conference in May last year the State Ministers agreed to set up a joint working party to examine a code for uniform legislation to control cigarette advertising in other areas of jurisidiction. In replying to the honourable member for Wimmera I think I should quote what I said yesterday in order to put the record straight. Clearly at least 2 newspapers have misreported what I did say. In reply to a question yesterday I said: 
At the State Health Ministers Conference last year it was agreed to work towards uniform legislation to control cigarette advertising in newspapers, magazines, handbills, pamphlets, leaflets, cinema slides, theatres and by any other means. I understand that the committee looking into this matter will be reporting to the Australian Health Ministers Conference in June this year on the progress it has made in achieving uniform legislation to cover the areas that are outside Commonwealth jurisdiction. 
It is not for me to tell the States what they are to do in respect of this matter. 
of the Social Welfare Commission Act 1973, I present a progress report by the Social Welfare Commission entitled  Social Welfare Manpower. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1 96 1 - 1 973, 1 present the annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is not available to the Commonwealth. The Medibank cost-sharing agreements between the Commonwealth and State Governments include the cost of drugs purchased by recognised hospitals as one of the operating costs to be shared. No arrangements have been entered into with States for the provision of statistics of National Health Scheme drugs dispensed by hospitals as opposed to drugs outside the scheme. Such drugs, along with all other drugs dispensed, are provided free to patients. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Medibank Hospitals Agreements between the Commonwealth and each State contain no special provision to prevent prescription drugs being dispensed in hospitals by other than doctors or pharmacists. Such a requirement is contained in respective State legislation. 
So far as my Department is aware, legislation in the States has not been amended to allow prescription drugs to be dispensed in hospitals by other than doctors or pharmacists. In Queensland, drugs are dispensed in accordance with the Poisons Regulations of 1973 under the Queensland Health Act 1973-75. 
-I can well understand the honourable member for Franklin's interest in this matter, as he is a former  President  of the Australian Automobile Chamber of Commerce. I know he has been very interested in the problem for some time. I can assure him that both my Department and the National Health and Medical Research Council have for some years been aware of the possible health hazards from lead in metropolitan areas. The hazard referred to in the Press article pertained mainly to lead absorbed from petrol or motor vehicle emissions. 
The Health and Medical Research Council made 2 recommendations, one in May and one in November 1973, specifically related to lead. One was in relation to the biological effects of lead; the other recommended maximum lead levels in petrol. Furthermore, I understand that the Australian Environment Council considered lead emissions in November 1973 and recommended similar but not identical standards requiring progressive reduction in lead content of petrol over several years. In New South Wales, for instance, the progressive State Government introduced legislation, to become operative as from 1 January 1975, to try to overcome the problem. The honourable member for Franklin and other honourable members can be assured that the National Health and Medical Research Council, the Department of Health and a great number of other bodies have been working towards trying to achieve standardisation in legislation to ensure that lead does not injure health any more than cannot be avoided. 
I shall be very brief. I feel that I have a responsibility to respond to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who was kind enough to inform me that he would be raising this matter in the House tonight. The great difficulty, of course, that I experience and that former Ministers for Health have experienced, is section 101 of the National Health Act sub-section ( 1 ) of which provides: 
There shall be a Committee, called the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, which shall, subject to the next succeeding sub-section, consist of- 
an officer, being a pharmacist, of the Commonwealth Department of Health appointed by the DirectorGeneral; 
six medical practitioners appointed by the Minister from among ten medical practitioners nominated by the Federal Council of the Australian Medical Association; and 
a pharmaceutical chemist appointed by the Minister from among three pharmaceutical chemists nominated by the Federated Pharmaceutical Service Guild of Australia. 
Sub-section states: 
The Minister may also appoint a pharmacologist to be a member of the Committee. 
The current membership of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee is as follows:  Dr M.  V. Clarke  (Chairman), consultant physician, Melbourne- this is a very prominent position- Dr K. C. Crafter, general practitioner, Adelaide; Dr M. J. Eadie neurologist, Brisbane; Dr J. L. Frew, consultant physician, Melbourne; Dr D. G. Hamilton, paediatrician, Sydney; Dr H. L. Thompson, general practitioner, Sydney; Professor J. P. Chalmers, clinical pharmacologist, Adelaide; Mr K. E. Thomas, retail pharmacist, Sydney; Mr A. E. Shields, pharmacist, Department of Health, Canberra. 
This is a very expert body of people. I must, as former Ministers have done, defend the recommendations that they have made after having taken into account all the various medical evidence that is available to them in determining what drugs are or are not in fact put on the list. The truth of the matter is that the pharmaceutical benefits scheme is now costing Australian taxpayers no less than $300m a year. It was introduced originally by the late  Sir Earle  Page as a free drug scheme providing life-saving drugs and those drugs that were necessary for people suffering from chronic illnesses, to be made available to the patient free of charge. Over the years this great list of drugs has expanded considerably. Pharmaceutical manufacturers have of course tried desperately to undertake research to ensure that their drugs were on the list. It is necessary to have an expert body of people who can make a balanced clinical judgment as to what drugs should or should not be on the list. The former Government adopted this principle wholeheartedly. In fact the former Minister for Health went to the PBAC in September of last year and made certain recommendations to it in the light of the current economic situation affecting the then Government. The PBAC went to work and made certain recommendations which ultimately came to me as the Minister for Health- recommendations which I approved. In the light of the economic review which took place in February of this year, recommendations were made to me as the Minister for Health. I did not adopt an arbitrary position as a Minister; I accepted the Committee's recommendations in toto. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith makes a case on behalf of Bayers and on behalf of a doctor, suggesting that the slow acting antihistamines should not have been removed from the list. This is a judgment that Bayers makes; this is a judgment that perhaps a doctor makes. But there has to be an arbiter. All I can say is that fortunately neither the Minister for Health, the honourable member for KingsfordSmith, Bayers nor the doctor the honourable member quotes is the arbiter. We have an expert committee of people who are thoroughly expert in the field and make recommendations to the Minister. The Minister would be something of an egotist if he refused to accept the recommendations of a body that had no vested interest whatsoever in either accepting or refusing the recommendations of that Committee. So, as I said some weeks ago, I, as the Minister for Health, am very conscious of the great cost to the taxpayers of Australia of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. I am also conscious of the reaction that some of the Committee's recommendations have created among sections of the medical profession and also the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry. Nobody seems to be terribly happy with what has happened. As a consequence of the situation currently prevailing I have instituted a thorough- going review of the whole of the pharmaceutical benefits system. I hope that in the near future policy options will be available to the Government. It could well be that the Government will be in a situation of considering whether in fact it should have a list as extensive as it has today or whether it should in fact have available to it a list consisting of lifesaving drugs and drugs necessary for chronically ill people to be supplied free of charge to those eligible. But the one thing I want to make clear is that we will not in any circumstance be influenced by the pressures of various pressure groups in the community. We will take decisions in accordance with the best interests of the health care of the Australian people. 
Corio for the purpose of allowing me to proceed this evening with the course I have indicated. I call the honourable member for Bendigo. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) A World Health Organisation Expert Committee which met in December 1974 stated ('Smoking and its Effects on Health', WHO Technical Report Series 568, Geneva 1975) that there are no consistent data available relating cigarette prices to their consumption. 
The Committee reported however that 'There is a growing conviction that the imposition of larger taxes might be used successfully to retard the growth of smoking among adults, to reduce adoption of the habit by children, and to move the consumer away from the more hazardous forms and brands of the smoking product'. 
I am advised by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician that he does not have statistics showing the average cost for the range of types and varieties of cigarettes sold throughout Australia. In December quarter 1975, prices of brands of filter tipped cigarettes in packets of 20 selected as representative for purposes of compiling the Consumer Price Index ranged between 56 cents and 82 cents in the State capital cities. 
Price movements for the 'Cigarettes and tobacco' subgroup of the Consumer Price Index between 1954-55 and 1974-75 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. In its vocational training and reorientation courses, the Family Medicine Program, sponsored by the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, provides extensive instruction on early detection, intervention and rehabilitation with respect to alcoholism, drug addiction and the problems of handicapped persons. Using a wide variety of educational methods and resources, including written material, videotapes, workshops and seminars, the Program provides assistance in identifying these problems, and instruction on counselling, treatment and prevention. 
No. It has not been policy under the Community Health Program to issue such highly detailed instructions on activities to be undertaken within funded projects. However, I know that, in its implementation of the Family Medicine Program, the College shares the Government's concern in these areas and, in regard to family medical practice, has always sought to emphasise the importance of early detection, treatment and rehabilitation in relation to these problems. 
GATT Agricultural Group (Question No. 103) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The proposal to construct the off-shore animal quarantine station is receiving attention jointly in my Department and the Department of Administrative Services. 
The Government has not yet considered this question. Should construction of the station at Cocos not prove practical, I would propose to pursue the question of construction on an alternate suitable site. 
The Public Works Committee considered Cocos, Christmas and Norfolk Islands as suitable locations for the station. The Committee recommended Cocos subject to certain conditions. The Committee did not indicate an order of preference for the other locations. Christmas Island was preferred by my Department in its original proposals to the Committee. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
-I am pleased to advise the honourable member for Capricornia that the Hospital and Health Services Commission, through the Rural Health Working Party, is preparing a report on rural health services in Australia. I understand the Working Party has recognised the very special difficulties that people suffer in isolated and remote areas of Australia. I am expecting the interim report from the Commission to be available within the next few weeks. I hope to be able to table it in the Parliament. I expect the report would focus attention upon this very critical area of concern to people living in isolated communities. Parents of children suffering from leukaemia, for instance, must travel great distances at their own cost to metropolitan cities and then must pay board for months and months while their children get treatment. I know that honourable members such as the honourable member for Capricornia and others who represent rural constituencies are very much aware of some of the great disadvantages that parents suffer as a consequence of remoteness and the high cost of medical services when there is chronic illness or disease such as leukaemia. 
I commend the honourable member for his immaculate behaviour and for declaring his pecuniary interest. As honourable members would know, at present there is no specific benefit that provides assistance to supporting fathers similar to the supporting mothers benefit. However, supporting fathers may be eligible for special benefit under section 124 of the Social Services Act. Such payments are regarded as a short term measure. The Minister for Social Security has announced that the whole income security system is presently under examination by the Income Security Review Committee. In that review the problems of supporting single fathers will certainly be given the closest consideration. I thank the honourable member for his question and for his interest in this important matter. 
Yes, I am aware of the fraudulent behaviour of certain people in Brisbane in handling falsified prescriptions to chemists. Secondly, once this information came into the hands of my Department I asked the Attorney-General's Department to make inquiries and the matter was placed in the hands of the Commonwealth Police. As a consequence of those investigations, 3 people have been apprehended and remanded to a hearing on 2 June. I have also made inquiries to see whether it is possible to block the loopholes to which the honourable member for Petrie has referred, but I find that it is almost impossible to achieve that objective. Under the terms of the National Health Act, it will not be possible to compensate the chemists who have been the victims of this fraudulent behaviour. I should make it clear to the honourable member and to all chemists that it is the responsibility of pharmacists to ascertain whether or not prescriptions are fraudulent. There is a great degree of responsibility on their shoulders. However, I am still investigating the matter. I am very concerned about it and I regret that a number of chemists have suffered quite a lot of financial loss as a consequence of what has happened in Brisbane. 
I received word yesterday that considerable damage had been done to the portion of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories that produces insulin. Considerable damage was done to some of the equipment in that part of the Laboratories but the pancreas glands that are used for the manufacture of insulin were not damaged, nor was the supply of insulin at the Laboratories. I have made inquiries and have been informed by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories that there is no occasion for concern among diabetics and those who have a need for a continuing supply of insulin. Adequate buffer stocks are available at all stages throughout the Commonwealth. I give the assurance that although damage was done at the CSL to the insulin manufacturing plant there is no occasion for alarm. I thank the honourable member for his question and concern. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong raises the question, I think, because of allegations of misuse and abuse of medical services provided under Medibank. Clearly there has been a number of frauds and a small number of cases has been detected. Investigations are now reaching an advanced stage and prosecutions will be launched wherever investigations reveal such action is warranted. 
In either case. The statistical evidence that has now been derived from Medibank computer will undoubtedly enable the Health Insurance Commission to monitor claims and also to monitor services for which doctors are claiming. I am in no position at this stage to be able to provide the statistical answer sought by the honourable member, but in the very near future we will be able to provide the statistics that he is seeking. 
I would like to announce to the House that I have this day established a working committee of inquiry under  Dr Sax  to inquire into the whole area of pathology where there have been accusations of misuse and over-use. I will ask this committee to report on what short-term changes are needed- and I would want that report by 30 April- and also to report on a second aspect, that is, what changes are needed in the long term. I will be announcing later this day the membership of that committee. It will have on it members of the Australian Medical Association and also members of the Royal College of Pathologists of Australia. 
I think we have to ensure that the professional people themselves are exercising disciplines within their own organisation. No bureaucracy or no government can succeed in overcoming these difficulties without the complete co-operation of the medical profession and those involved in the extension of medical services themselves. To overlook that fact would mean, I think, that we would fail to achieve the result that the honourable member for Maribyrnong is looking for. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All hearing aids offered were assessed on performance, appearance, usability, price, ease of service and battery usage. Each aid was rated using a system based on these assessments in which performance was heavily weighted. The hearing aid submitted by the lowest price tenderer did not score as well on performance, appearance, usability, battery usage, and overall, as did the one from the successful tenderer. 
No. 
NEAT Scheme: Attendance Records (Question No. 56) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Government of the day entered a formal and public commitment to construct a community health centre on Eastern Shore, Hobart, at the request of the Tasmanian Government. Our Government's policy is to honour such commitments to the States. 
On 13 March 1976, my colleague, the Minister for Construction, and I announced the letting of a contract for $840,000 for the construction of this centre under the Commonwealth capital works program. 
The State health authorities will have responsibility for the conduct of this centre, including decisions as to the categories of services to be provided from it. 
You will be aware that our Government's stated policy is to 'encourage the development of a community-based health system throughout Australia'. Detailed proposals for projects will be considered in the light of this principle as they arise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The present range of hearing aids supplied by NAL caters satisfactorily for children. However, there will always be some on whom any aid will appear cosmetically unsatisfactory. To reduce the number of these, the development of an ultra-small behind-the-ear aid in the low and medium power range was added to the list of programs last year. However, because of the deterioration in performance and quality of sound reproduction in smaller aids of this type, continuing research and development is required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Canberra Hospital has no record of a private quote of $20 a point to rectify the television reception problem at the hospital. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) If used in accordance with the instructions, for the purpose for which they are intended, there is no danger from these substances. I am aware that deliberate concentration and inhalation of aerosols can cause adverse effects and may even be fatal. I would point out, however, that this is a deliberate and gross misuse of the product. 
I understand that some States are investigating possible courses of action and I have asked the National Health and Medical Research Council to consider what actions can be taken to discourage misuse of these substances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The standard for wine recommended by the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH and MRC) covers imported, as well as locally produced wines. 
It includes specific provision for all wines to be labelled with the country of origin. 
Provisions of the standard have been incorporated in the legislation of all Australian States. Victorian legislation is a little more stringent than the NH and MRC recommendation, in that it does not permit the addition of sugar to sparkling wines. 
In view of the interest of the honourable member in this subject, I have arranged for a copy of the NH and MRC standard to be forwarded to him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The delay in establishing the high security quarantine station at Cocos is a matter of concern. It is hoped to place proposals which will reactivate the matter before the Government in the near future. Construction at Christmas Island or some other site is not under consideration at this time. 
My objective is to reach resolution on the location of the station as soon as practicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This matter falls within the terms of reference of the Medibank Review Committee appointed by the Government. 
I have seen Press reports of the contest to which the honourable member for Lang referred, and I well recall his concern about injuries that result from boxing. It is a matter that has concerned him for some time. But, of course, there are 2 sides to this case. There are former boxers sitting around this chamber. Whilst it might be said that some of them could have been affected by their boxing, I would not be unkind enough to say that they have been affected by it. In fact, I was engaged in amateur boxing for a period. Sometimes I wonder whether it did not have some effect on me. 
I believe that there is a great need to ensure that boxing is undertaken under very strict guidelines and controls. I understand that there is great difficulty in establishing such guidelines and ensuring that they are complied with. I am aware also of the case against controls or the banning of boxing in Australia. People will say that horse riding, motor car racing, rugby league football, Australian rules football and cricket all have some degree of danger. There have been deaths as a consequence of participation in most sports. The difficulty with boxing is that it is a spectacle involving 2 people fighting in a ring each with the objective of knocking the other out of the ring. When one boxer is knocked out of the ring and ultimately knocked out of his senses and ends up in the condition of this American boxer, everbody is deeply concerned about the consequences. 
To ban boxing would go far beyond the powers of the Commonwealth Government. It would involve participation by State governments. I will be interested to receive a submission from the Australian Medical Association, which has called for the banning of boxing. I will study submissions that may be directed to me and will discuss the matter with officers of my Department. If I think there is a case, I could well raise it at the Health Ministers conference later this year and I will do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The dispensing of prescription drugs in each State is controlled by State legislation. In regard to the pans of the question relating to dispensing fees charged by hospitals the supply under the Medibank arrangements of drugs and medicinal preparations to hospital inpatients and outpatients at recognised hospitals is free of charge to those patients. 
Private inpatients at recognised hospitals are required to pay hospital charges consisting of a daily rate which covers all hospital services including the supply of any drugs and medicinal preparations. Generally, public hospitals are recognised hospitals. 
Patients in private hospitals which are approved hospitals under Section 94 of the National Health Act are entitled to receive pharmaceutical benefits from the hospital dispensary or the private pharmacy (where no hospital dispensary exists) upon payment of patient contribution, or if a pensioner free of charge. If the patient is supplied with drugs and medicinal preparations which are not pharmaceutical benefits the patient may be charged such amounts as the hospital or the private pharmacist (as the case may be) considers appropriate as the Commonwealth does not exercise control over prices charged for drugs which are not pharmaceutical benefits. 
Patients in private hospitals which are not approved hospitals under Section 94 of the National Health Act are entitled to receive pharmaceutical benefits from an approved pharmacist upon the payment of patient contribution, or if a pensioner free of charge. As stated above, the Commonwealth has no control over prices charged for drugs and medicinal preparations which are not pharmaceutical benefits. 
The answers provided above would also cover hospital and private patients in small country hospitals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Medibank Hospital Agreements with the States provide that a patient of a recognised hospital (generally a public hospital) will be supplied drugs, biologicals and related preparations free of charge by the hospital. The preparations to be supplied will be those considered necessary by the hospital in the treatment of the patient's condition by the hospital. A similar situation exists regarding treatment of out-patients. 
It accords with the general principles of Medibank and, in particular, the Medibank hospital arrangements, that people who attend recognised hospitals as out-patients should get treatment free of charge with no additional costs for extras such as drugs, etc. 
The Medibank Review Committee is carrying out an overall review of the Medibank arrangements. The matter of the provision of outpatient treatment and services in recognised hospitals is one of the matters that would at present be under consideration by the Committee. This would include the supply of pharmaceuticals. 
Information made available to the Commonwealth from the respective State hospital authorities indicates that there is no evidence that people are attending recognised hospitals merely for the sake of getting free medicines etc. There has been no significant change m the number of bed days in recognised hospitals compared with pre-Medibank figures, and most States have reported no overall increase in outpatient attendances. It could be expected that the number of persons seeking outpatient treatment at hospitals will fall since pensioners and persons uninsured under the previous private health insurance scheme can now attend private practitioners and specialists instead of needing to attend outpatient departments of hospitals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) Under the Medibank Hospital Agreements between the Commonwealth Government and each State Government, the States have undertaken to provide whatever prostheses and orthoses are necessary for a patient's discharge from a recognised (that is, public) hospital. Such items are free to both hospital patients and private patients. The Agreements with some States provide that some items such as crutches and splints will be provided on a loan basis. With reference to private hospitals, there is no provision under Medibank for the free supply of such items. In most cases private hospitals require payment over and above the daily bed fee, or else leave it to the patient's doctor to supply the item and charge the patient. 
The Medibank Hospital Agreements provide that outpatient services provided by recognised hospitals are to be free of charge and without means test, with the exception that the Tasmanian Agreement specifically excludes the provision of free dental treatment, while the Agreements with the other States provide that a means test may be applied as a criterion of eligibility for persons seeking dental services or spectacles. It is therefore implied in the Agreements that, with the exception of the supply of dentures in Tasmanian hospitals, prostheses and orthoses necessary for the treatment of patients' illnesses and within the individual hospital 's ability to supply them, should also be supplied free. 
and (e) Prostheses and orthoses, once provided free by a recognised hospital, would be replaced as needed on the same basis on the understanding that the patient remains in the care of the hospital. 
Medibank does not cover the cost of prostheses, orthoses and similar appliances purchased privately by patients. However, Medibank benefits are payable on a consultation basis towards the cost of a professional service, as defined in the Health Insurance Act, associated with the fitting of an initial or repeat prosthesis or orthosis. 
During the negotiations leading to the Agreements, this matter was not discussed in detail. The Commonwealth's understanding was that individual hospitals would, for the time being at least, continue their past practices in this regard. An investigation carried out by my Department has since confirmed this understanding. 
It is probable that practices in regard to the supply of prostheses etc. differ among hospitals of similar size and function even within the one State. Of course, it will be found that small country hospitals will be suited to supplying a smaller and simpler range of prosthetic appliances than say large metropolitan teaching hospitals. 
State health authorities generally determine the services available from recognised hospitals. The introduction of new services that will eventually be cost-shared with the Commonwealth requires my prior approval. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report to which the honourable member refers is presumably one which, I am informed, was prepared for the former Minister for Health,  Dr D.  N. Everingham, by the Department of Health Working Party on Medical and Surgical Aids and Appliances. 
I understand that the report was subsequently the subject of consideration by the former Government and I have therefore not sought access to it. 
The banning of advertising of alcohol on the electronic media is the subject of an inquiry being undertaken by a committee headed by  Dr Woodruff.  That committee of inquiry will be reporting to the Health Ministers conference to be held later this year. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Eight(8). 
) New South Wales:  Ms J.  Moore 
I cannot give any definite answer to that question, but I will make inquiries of my Department this afternoon and I hope to be able to provide an answer later in the day. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l) 
The Prime Minister has advised the Premiers that the Government has decided to reduce the proportion of its contribution to the School Dental Scheme on the basis that the States will need to increase their contributions by 10 percent of the overall capital and recurring costs of the Scheme. The revised arrangements are to be discussed with State representatives at a meeting in Canberra in April 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Approximately 21% of the after-tax net profits representing the period up to 17 September 1975 as a proportion of the year. This represents profits for the period before the shares were acquired by the Government. 
The present managing director was the major shareholder in the previous ownership. 
The companies are subject to the provisions of the Victorian Companies Act which contains specific provisions for accounts and audit. Payment will be made on the basis of properly audited final accounts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Three women's health advisers were attached to the Royal Flying Doctor Service in Broken Hill, Mt Isa and Kalgoorlie for 3 months in 1975. They were employed in a pilot project, initiated by my Department which aimed to assess the need for family planning services for women in outback areas. 
My Department is currently seeking comments on the project from organisations and authorities which were involved in it or affected by it. 
1 will advise the honourable member of the findings of the project as soon as a full assessment of its value and acceptability has been made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Medical Officers 
A cadet medical officer scheme was inaugurated in 1959 for the purpose of recruiting medical officers for service in the Northern Territory. The scheme was suspended in 1964 because it proved at that time, of limited value to the Department. During the period 1959-1964, of the 14 cadets recruited only 4 remained in the Service after graduation. However, it may be possible to develop a more effective scholarship scheme in today's environment, and this will be studied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
) In view of answer to ( 1 ) not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable  Mr Hunt-  The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: member's question is as follows: 
The late emergence of the new A Victoria strain of influenza virus meant that a suitable vaccine could not be produced earlier than March of this year. In this regard I understand that it takes approximately 10 weeks for a batch of influenza vaccine to pass through the full cycle of manufacture. The distribution of the vaccine commenced in late March and over 800 000 doses have been distributed by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories up to 23 April through the normal distribution agencies. CSL does not distribute directly to chemists but to wholesalers in the various States. 
Each year CSL has to continue to update its vaccines to counteract the differing viruses that occur or appear from year to year. Although the laboratories are working about 7 days a week on influenza vaccine production there are current delays in filling orders, but it is expected that the backlog will be overcome in the next few weeks. I have been in touch with my Department and with CSL because of representations I have had from the honourable member and from other honourable members about the current shortage of vaccine to satisfy the demand. There has been something of a public panic over the issue, but the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories are doing everything in their power to ensure that there are adequate supplies of vaccine to meet this A Victoria strain of influenza. I shall investigate the matter that is concerning the honourable member to see whether it is possible for supplies to be distributed to his area. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend the effective operation of the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972-74 to enable grants to be made for aged persons hostel projects for which applications have been lodged but which, for one reason or another, could not be commenced within the time limits imposed by the Act. The amendment will not re-open the legislation for lodgement of applications for new or additional grants. 
The Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972-74 was introduced with effect from 27 September 1972 and was designed to operate for a period of 3 years. The reason for this, as stated by the  Hon.  W. C. Wentworth, the then Minister for Social Services, in introducing the Bill on 14 September 1972, was to encourage the building of additional hostel accommodation for the frail aged within a short period of time. The measure was not introduced as a substitute for the continuing program operating under the provisions of the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act 1954-74 which as honourable members are aware provides for the Commonwealth to subsidise the cost of building self-contained, hostel and nursing accommodation for aged or disabled persons. 
The objective is that all beds funded under the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972-1974 are hosteltype, catering specifically for the frail aged and those in greatest need of accommodation because of advanced age and limited financial resources. In introducing the Act it was intended that by encouraging additional hostel accommodation there would be a lessening of the pressure for admission to nursing homes by people who had no real need for nursing care. Since the inception of the Act 154 grants have been approved which have attracted grants in the region of $64m. When all these projects have been completed accommodation will have been provided for 5700 aged persons. 
Under the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972-1974 the Commonwealth Government meets the capital cost of providing hostel-type accommodation for 2 additional aged persons for every one accommodated in an unsubsidised home, or one additional person for every two in an existing home subsidised on a $1 for $1 basis prior to 1957. To achieve the objective of encouraging early construction of new accommodation the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972-1974 presently has a condition that a grant shall not be made in respect of a hostel unless the hostel was approved under section 5 of the Act on or before 27 September 1975 and construction commenced within 12 months from the date of approval of the hostel. Under the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972-1974 many organisations were approved as eligible and acquired the right to purchase or construct new hostel-type beds subject to the availability of Commonwealth funds. The original legislation was amended on 9 December 1974 to enable organisations which wished to do so to transfer their rights to other eligible organisations. These rights were sought by some organisations and this gave a considerable stimulus to the program and created a demand for grants in respect of hostels that exceeded the number that could be funded in 1975-76 within the Budget allocation of $40m. 
In order to preserve organisations' hostel bed entitlements under the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972-1974, the previous Government decided in August 1975 to approve all outstanding proposals under section 5 of the Act on or before 27 September 1975- the last day on which, under the existing legislation, a hostel could be approved- but to defer the making of a grant in a large number of cases because of insufficient funds. This resulted in the previous Government deferring in excess of 300 applications for grants under this legislation. These are valued at in excess of $ 1 34m. At the same time these organisations were given an assurance by the previous Government that their rights under the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972-1974 would be preserved even though the making of grants in respect of their projects had been deferred. 
Under the existing Act, projects must be commenced not later than 27 September 1976. If projects are not commenced by that date, as the legislation now stands eligible organisations would lose their previously approved entitlements. The Government has decided that, to enable an annual program of construction to be undertaken and to ensure that the rights of organisations which have acquired entitlements under the legislation are preserved, there should be an extension of the time within which the erection of a hostel can be commenced. An amendment to the existing legislation will give organisations with existing rights 12 months from the date on which a grant is actually approved to plan and commence construction of their hostels. Provided this condition is met, the legislation as amended will authorise the Director-General to actually pay the grant. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the first year of the campaign, 1972-73, advertising was a major component in our approach. The intention, at this early stage, was to develop public awareness of the National Warning Against Smoking and to influence smoking behaviour. 
During the next year 1973-74, the proportion of the funds for the National Warning allocated to State and nonstatutory health education authorities was increased in order to foster the educational component with advantages of more personal impact, long term effect and inbuilt capacity for feedback. 
The particular publicity component during 1973-74 was directed at the smoker who was the breadwinner; who by age was at a higher risk and who, if prematurely deceased would leave a significant gap within a family. The theme during this time, was 'The Life that you ruin may not be your own'. With this increase in health education activities throughout Australia, and an increased awareness of the National Warning, the amount allocated to the media publicity component was reduced. 
No attempt was made to match the advertising strategy, and costs, of the cigarette and tobacco producers. 
The strategy of the campaign and the choice of advertising medium were considered, on expert advice, to be the most effective means of achieving the aims outlined in (1) above. 
The question of compensatory advertising has already been answered in the reply to the third part of question No. 1207. 
In part 1 of the answer to Question 1207, an undertaking was given to provide a breakdown by media of the sums spent in the anti-smoking campaign during 1972-73. In the table set out below details are given of all expenditure on promotional activity associated with the campaign. The figure differs from that supplied in the earlier answer as it covers total expenditure on the printing of booklets, posters and leaflets, freight and miscellaneous costs associated with the other promotional acitivities as well as expenditure associated with media advertising and production of adver tisements. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) In both Central and State offices of the Department of Social Security, the number of officers engaged in the administration of the Australian Assistance Plan is as follows: 
full-time-20. 
part-time- 14 persons are spending a significant amount of their time. The number of officers who are spending a relatively small amount of their time assisting the 37 funded Regional Councils for Social Development and the 37 initiating groups which are in the process of establishing Regional Councils, is not available. This group includes Registrars, District Officers and Social Workers attached to State and Regional offices. In addition, 12 officers are engaged full-time in the development and evaluation of the Plan (e.g. in arranging and conducting training courses, conferences and seminars with the staff and voluntary members of the Regional Councils). 
The number of positions in the administrative structure of the Australian Assistance Plan, apart from positions in the Department of Social Security, is as follows: 
Regional Councils for Social Development: 
Staff positions- 
Filled positions- 219 (comprising 91 positions providing social planning secretariats to Regional Councils and undertaking related administrative duties and 128 Community Development Officers. It is to be noted that the former group includes directors of social planning and project officers whose chief functions are not to administer but to advise the Regional Council in its social planning activities and to undertake project work. Community Development Officers are not administrative staff but serve the community in social development activities and stimulate self-help groups to be organised). 
Vacant positions- 7 (2 of which are Community Development Officers). 
b) Non-staff positions- Over one thousand members of regional communities fill administrative positions on Regional Councils for Social Development on a voluntary basis (e.g. President, Secretary, Treasurer, Committee members). 
Most positions in the administrative structure of the Australian Assistance Plan, therefore, are filled by volunteers who receive support in their duties from the Regional Council Secretariat. 
The $7.4m appropriated to the Australian Assistance Plan for the year 1975-76 has been allocated as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. It was the understanding at the time of purchase by the previous Government that after-tax net profits in the year of sale, up to the point of sale, would go to the vendor, as the then owner of the shares, and that profits from that point on would be available for distribution to the purchaser. It was necessary to spell this out in the agreement as a formula and the amount still to be paid represents the application of this formula. As stated in my answer to question 210, the vendor's proportion is approximately 2 1%. 
I have not received any complaints to indicate growing public disquiet. The formula for distribution of 1975-76 profits is fixed and there is no provision for the vendor's proportion to be increased. 
The contract details were that the shares in the companies would be sold to the Commonwealth for a consideration comprising 5 times the consolidated net profits before tax in either the year ended 30 June 1974 or the year ending on the 30 June immediately preceding the date of exercise of the option to purchase (whichever was the greater) plus $2. 1 m. In addition the vendor was to receive the profits up to the date of purchase. 
These were the Australian Industry Development Corporation calculations upon which the sale was negotiated. 
The actual application of the contract provisions is as follows: 
Option exercised 1.7.75 Settlement made 17.9.75 Consolidated net profits before tax- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
CSL has a commercial arrangement with Rotary Tableting Corporation Pty Ltd.- one of the Fawnmac group of companies, for the manufacture of some oral forms of penicillins from bulk material supplied by CSL. 
The arrangement commenced in 1971 and in 1974-75 represented 5.67 per cent of the turnover of the Fawnmac group. 
No. 
CSL is a statutory body operating under the CSL Act 1961-73. The contractual arrangements between CSL and the Fawnmac Group are on a strictly commercial basis and this guarantees that normal commercial criteria will obtain. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. (I), (2) and (3) The Australian Assistance Plan (AAP) was introduced in 1973 as a three year experimental program. The pilot period concludes on 30 June 1976, about which time the Commonwealth Government will be making decisions on the future of the program. 
The decisions will be based on information and opinions drawn from a number of sources. These include: the views of Regional Councils for Social Development the Report of the Social Welfare Commission on the AAP reports from independent evaluators appointed by the Social Welfare Commission. comments by the Department of Social Security which has been responsible for the administration of the program over most of the pilot period comments from State Governments comments from Local Government Authorities and their Associations comments from voluntary welfare organisations and private citizens. 
It is planned to hold conferences with representatives of State Government Departments concerned with welfare matters and also with representatives of Local Government Associations in April 1976. A National Conference on the Australian Assistance Plan which will be attended by State and Local Government representatives, and representatives from Regional Councils for Social Development and members of Parliament is scheduled for the first weekend in May. 
-The answer to the honourable  budgetary considerations  member's question is as follows:  Newcastle seaport 
<para pgwide="yes">Australia is a member country of the Office Internationale Port Hedland airport/ seaport des Epizooties (OIE) which provides a world wide disease These locations are considered to be the ones in most urgent reporting service from Paris, France. OIE operates, with the need of facilities. Construction of incinerators at other loca- 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">World Health Organisation and the Food and Agriculturaltions will be proposed in subsequent financial years. The 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Organisation, under the aegis of the United Nations. OIE cirprogram of construction is being planned having in mind fa- culates monthly disease situation reports to all membercilities already available for the safe disposal of quarantine countries, supplemented as necessary by urgent advices of wastes. outbreaks of special significance. (3) The only high priority seaport lacking an incinerator 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">It is the practice of veterinary authorities in many and not included in the above list is Sydney. In this seaport developed countries to report to each other advice of disease there exists no incinerator specifically for quarantine wastes, outbreaks of special importance and methods of control. In However Local Government facilities are being used and addition, the Australian Overseas posts notify changes in dis- are considered adequate at this stage, ease status which come to their attention. (4) Consideration is currently being given to the question ~ _ . ^ of functional control for quarantine incinerators. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Estimated total services submitted for payment by claimants for November 1975, December 1975 and January 1976- number and per cent of paid and unpaid services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average number of pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions per month for goats' milk during the twelve months proir to the change in restrictions was 6075. It is estimated that the prescription volume will be reduced to approximately 2000 per month. 
I do not have any information on the total consumption of canned or powdered goat's milk. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Royal Flying Doctor Service has received or is expected to receive the following financial assistance from the Australian Government in each financial year since 1970-71: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Medical Benefits Schedule provides various items for different obstetric services. The most common item of service on which benefits are paid covers antenatal care, confinement and postnatal care for nine days. This service has been in the Medical Benefits Schedule since 1953. 
As with the previous Scheme, Medibank Medical Benefits are not payable until the particular service covered by the Schedule has been completed and an appropriate claim made. 
Separate benefits are payable in respect of the first antenatal attendance so, in ordinary circumstances, the obstetric service referred to above would be completed within eight months of that date. Medibank benefits are normally paid within two weeks of lodgment of a claim. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A satisfactory procedure operates at Canberra hospitals to ensure that patients admitted to hospital are properly advised of the choice available to them of standard or private wards and doctors. 
The patient admission staff at each hospital explain the options available to patients and in particular the conditions relating to their choice of service. This information is also outlined on the hospitals "Request for Admission' form. 
Signs have been erected in waiting areas in casualty and out-patients departments informing patients of the choices available to them if they require hospitalisation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) No direct grants have been made to the Wayside Chapel from funds administered by my Department. 
Commonwealth grants have been made to the Health Commission of New South Wales for the Wayside Chapel since the Community Health Program was introduced in 1973- 74. That Commission has immediate responsibility for payment of these grants to the Wayside Chapel and for oversighting the activities funded. 
The funds allocated in 1973-74 and 1974-75 were $10,500 and $39,600, respectively, for the purpose of operating a Socio-medical crisis intervention and outreach centre. 
The 1973-74 grant was on the basis of meeting 100 per cent of the salaries of a Director, Assistant Director and Outreach Director for part of that financial year. The 1974- 75 grant was allocated on the basis of meeting 90 per cent of salaries, the funded positions having been increased to include an Educational Director, Receptionist/Secretary and a part-time Assistant. 
An amount of $40,288 has been allocated to the Health Commission of New South Wales for the Wayside Chapel in 1975-76, also on a 90 per cent basis. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(1)- 
As far as can be established from Departmental records and inquiries of other Departments, the Royal Blind Society of New South Wales does not receive any grants from the Federal Government for the purposes mentioned in the question in respect of braille libraries. 
The Society is in receipt of salary subsidy and maintenance subsidy under the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act 1974 in respect of two training centresone a nursery and the other a kindergarten. For the calendar year 1975, subsidies paid were $22,915. 
Blind persons receiving pensions specified in Section 135 ( 1 ) of the Social Services Act are eligible for treatment and training through the rehabilitation service which the Commonwealth administers through my Department, in order to engage in a suitable vocation. Where appropriate, vocational training, for example, for telephone switchboardoperating, may be provided at training centres conducted by voluntary organisations, for which a fee for service is paid. 
Providing it will assist them in obtaining employment, blind persons may be accepted by the Department for mobility training and the supply of a guide dog, long cane and/or binaural spectacles. In these cases, the Department meets the cost of mobility training and guide dog or other mobility aid. Where blind persons already in employment are likely to lose their jobs unless they receive mobility training, they may also be assisted. Since July 1975 a total of 18 blind persons throughout Australia have been provided with this form of assistance. 
The Royal Blind Society of New South Wales is an eligible organisation under the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act. 
The Society operates a sheltered workshop, an activity centre, two training centres and a residential accommodation unit for the blind and has received 63 grants totalling $621,063 for the purposes listed in parts (a) to (e) of the question. 

Yes, provided they live in residential accommodation approved under the Handicapped Persons Assistance 
Act 
Subject to the provisions of the Social Services Act a Handicapped Child's Allowance may be payable in respect of a blind child under 1 6 years of age. Under the Act the allowance is payable to parents or guardians who supply constant care and attention for a severely handicapped child in their home. A severely handicapped child is defined as a person who has not attained the age of 16 years and who has a physical or mental disability and by reason of that disability needs constant care and attention and is likely to need such care and attention permanently or for an extended period. Since the inception of the scheme in December 1974 to February 1976, 19 448 grants for all disabilities have been made. 
See answer to Question (4). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 understand  Dr Mathieson  has instituted civil proceedings, a matter which rests entirely with him and not the Department or myself. 
Yes.  Mr Toomer  was charged under the Public Service Act in connection with statements made by him during television interviews on 28th June 1974 and 2nd July 1974. The penalty was reduction from Senior Quarantine Inspector (3), (4) and (6) As for ( 1) above. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am conscious of the concern of the honourable member for Murray about the need for more funds for medical research. I am also very conscious of the deep concern among the medical research community about the level of funding for 1977-78. Over the last 2 weeks I have met with representatives of the Australian Medical Association, medical research workers and members of the expert committees which advise the Minister on medical research matters. I do recall the shocking treatment by the former Government of medical research in this country. In 1974-75 it allocated $8.03m out of a total health budget of $1,1 88m, which represented  007 per cent of the total funds expended on health in Australia. Yet last year the previous Government dropped the allocation to $5.2m, which reduced the amount of funds being spent on medical research by . 002 per cent out of a total budget of $2,400m for expenditure on health. It was a shameful performance. It has put medical research in Australia back many years. 
It is a matter of concern to the Government that Australia is lagging behind other countries by international standards on funds being spent on medical research. For instance, in the United States of America something like $6.40 per head of population is being spent yearly on medical research. In Canada the figure is $1.44. In Australia only 55c per head of population was provided for medical research under the last Budget. As the honourable member for Murray pointed out, we have a policy gradually to increase to international standards the amount of money being spent on medical research as the economic situation recovers. We are facing a very serious economic problem, one that we have inherited from the former Government, but we are considering at present ways and means of trying to improve the medical research situation in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The Wollongong University College did make a submission to the Universities Commissions' Committee on Medical Schools proposing the establishment of a medical school. The proposal was closely associated with a scheme for graduate training of general practitioners to be developed in association with the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners. The Committee recommended that the proposal by the University College not be supported but the Government deferred a final decision on this aspect of the report until further enquiries being undertaken by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission were completed. 
In its submission to the Universities Commission for the 1976-78 triennium, the University of Wollongong proposed the establishment of a postgraduate department of community medical practice, as an initial development in 1976. The Commission commented in its Sixth Report that the establishment of a postgraduate department of community medical practice should not be considered in isolation from the proposal to establish a medical school at the University of Wollongong 
The proposal mentioned in ( 1 ) (a) was considered by a working party established by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission and the resulting report 'A Report on the Integration of Health Services and Health Education Facilities in the Illawarra Region', was tabled in Parliament 22 April 1975. The working party's report recommended, inter alia, that the Australian Government should agree in principle to provide resources for the addition of facilities and services in accordance with the health care needs of the Illawarra Region, but in such a way that they could be adapted and used in a future approved educational program of the type envisaged in the Wollongong proposal. The report also recommended that a planning team be appointed to report on the additional facilities and services required for this purpose and the additional hospital facilities that might be necessary. The planning team would also be asked to advise, in consultation with the Universities Commission, on the outlines of the features of a possible future medical school at the University of Wollongong 
The matter will not be considered in the context of the Budget for 1976-77. 
I have seen the reports to which the honourable member refers. I will make inquiries of the Minister for Social Security and report the reply to the honourable member as soon as possible. 
The proposed new sub-section (2) reads as follows: 
the amount of a grant under this section shall be paid at such time as is, or by such instalments at such times as are, determined by an agreement between the Director-General and the prescribed organisation or, in the absence of agreement, by the Director-General. 
That subsection gives the Director-General the right actually to pay the grant. An amendment to the existing legislation would give organisations with existing rights 12 months from the date on which a grant is actually approved to plan and commence construction of their hostels. Provided this condition is met, the legislation as amended will authorise the Director-General actually to pay the grant. The clause amends section 6 of the principal Act by substituting a new sub-section (2) and omitting sub-sections (2) and (3). Proposed new sub-section (2) of section 6 is a machinery amendment consequential upon clause 4. The omission of sub-section (3) of section 6 of the principal act is consequential upon clause S. 
Why not? 
Clause 5 inserts a new section 13 in the principal Act. This clause is the usual, standard delegation clause which empowers the Director-General to delegate his powers under the legislation to officers of the Australian Public Service. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Terms and conditions of grants). 
I assume that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has read the second reading speech which spells out the provisions contained in sub-clause (2) of clause 3. 
I reply to the honourable member simply by referring to the last paragraph of my speech, as recorded at page 1627 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 27 April 1 976 where I state: 
The Government has decided that, to enable an annual program of construction to be undertaken and to ensure that the rights of organisations which have acquired entitlements under the legislation are preserved, there should be an extension of the time within which the erection of a hostel can be commenced. 
That statement means precisely what it says. 
Not necessarily. The outstanding value of the projects was $134m. I will refer the other details of the question to the Minister for Social Security in another place. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-The Commonwealth Government made an offer to the Pharmacy Guild involving a payment of $ 15m, made up of payments of 5c for each prescription dispensed since 1 July 1973. The offer would have meant on average $3,000 per chemist throughout Australia. The decision was taken in very difficult economic circumstances and I can only express my disappointment that the Guild has taken the decision to refuse an offer made in good faith. This will prevent many chemists throughout Australia who may have wished to accept the offer from receiving any immediate payment. I understand that the decision was taken without a referendum and without the total knowledge of pharmacists throughout Australia. However, the Guild has now instructed its solicitors to issue a writ against the Commonwealth concerning chemists' remuneration for the dispensing of pharmaceutical benefits. 
in reply- There are a couple of questions to which I wish to reply. Firstly, I thank honourable members on both sides of the House for the very constructive contributions which they made to the debate. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  said that he hoped we would be able to clear up the backlog of claims within two to three years. He asked that we set a target to meet all outstanding claims. I can assure him that the Government has a target. The estimated total value of the grants involved is $134m. This year $40m is being spent in this area. We hope it will be possible for this level of expenditure to be maintained, subject to general budgetary considerations. This will mean that all claims should be met in a little more than 3 years. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  raised a point that needs some answer. I repeat that the purpose of the Act is to encourage the establishment of urgently needed hostel accommodation. The basis of assistance is 2 beds for each one in an unsubsidised home, and one bed for each two in a home subsidised on a $ 1 for $1 basis prior to 1957. It was calculated that assistance on this basis would come close to meeting the need for hostel accommodation. Also it meant that all aged persons homes organisations that had established homes without subsidy on a $1 for $1 basis would be placed on the same basis as newer organisations that had received a $2 for $1 subsidy. 
I join the members of this House who paid their compliments to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who, after all, was responsible for the conception of this rather brilliant idea. The purpose was to provide hostel accommodation for aged people over a period of 3 years to overcome some of the backlog throughout Australia. I agree with the many speakers who said tonight that there is a great need to try to achieve a rationalisation within the framework of the funds that are available to cope with programs such as domiciliary care, day care, hostels and the self-contained units that are being built around Australia to compliment the nursing home program. Each should complement the other. I believe it is absolutely important to try to get private funds with public funds to achieve this objective. Once again I thank those who contributed so well to this debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Consideration interrupted. 
I think I have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden). 
The question I think I need to answer is this: I said that hopefully it will be possible for this level of expenditure to be maintained, namely the $40m that is being expended in this year, subject, of course, to general budgetary considerations. That will mean that all claims will be met in little more than 3 years. No government can forecast exactly what it will do from one financial year to the other; it is subject to the constraint of budgetary considerations. 
Clause 4 amends section 9 ( 1) of the principal Act which provides that a grant shall not be made in respect of a hostel unless the hostel was approved on or before 27 September 1975 and construction commenced within 12 months from the date of approval of the hostel under section 5 of the Act. The effect of the amendment, together with the amendment to section 6 (2) of the principal Act, makes the payment of a grant subject to the erection of a hostel being commenced within 12 months of the date of making the grant. 
I must say that I have not heard as much nonsense from the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in my life. I remind the House that he is a former Treasurer of this country who played his part in wrecking the Australian economy. When we came to office, we inherited a Budget deficit of no less than $4,700m. He lifted the expectations and hopes of the Australian people to a level that could not be sustained or met. So, it is all very well for him to come into the chamber tonight and to seek to make a big man of himself. The honourable member for Oxley was one of the architects of the mess into which this country has slumped. Why do we have this piece of legislation before the House at present? It has resulted because the previous Government deferred in excess of 300 applications for grants under this legislation. It could not keep up with the expectations and hopes that it had inspired in people in this country. 
It is all very well for the honourable member for Oxley to come in here and to say to us, with the inherited budgetary mess that we have, that we should give a commitment for 3 years in respect of this matter. I can assure the honourable member that it will be the intention of this Government to overcome the inflationary crisis that is wrecking the whole social and economic structure of this country. We concur with the view of the Henderson inquiry into poverty that no country with a high rate of inflation can avoid causing great hardship to the poor. We accept the recommendations of that body that the reduction of inflation is essential to the reduction of poverty. The poor and the aged are the people who suffer. They are the people who have suffered most under the Labor Party's regime. Yet the honourable member for Oxley comes in here tonight and tries to make a big honourable fellow of himself when he has probably contributed to more suffering in this country than any other member who sits in this chamber. 
Now he says that he is not happy because we would not give an undertaking that he demands. We give an undertaking to the aged people and to those who are seeking accommodation in hostels, in nursing homes, or wherever they might be, that we will achieve an economic stability that will ensure them the security that they have not had in the last 18 months. Until we get the wealth producing industries of Australia going again and start generating wealth in this country, we will not have the wherewithal to try to overcome the great problem confronting the less privileged and the disadvantaged people in the community. So let us not hear any more of this claptrap from the honourable member for Oxley. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  I think the honourable member for Oxley has already spoken twice on this clause. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  No, the honourable member for Oxley has already spoken twice on this clause. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Amounts paid by the Department of Social Security to each airline for air travel within Australia during the last 2 years is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) (a) The following are the items removed from the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits since 1 1 November 1975, listed under five categories of reasons for removal: 
Items deleted on the recommendation of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee: 
General Benefits 
Anticholinergic/antispasmodic drugs: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I am informed that the statement 'work is now continuing' on page 773 of  Hansard  of 10 October 1975 of the Senate Estimates Committee D, did not refer to design or construction of Australian Government Hospitals. It referred to the sharing of information on planning methodology and appropriate scales of accommodation in association with the joint State and Australian Government management of the Hospitals Development Program. 
Work on the design of Australian Government Hospitals at Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane has ceased as communicated in both the answer to question No. 242 1 and in the earlier remarks on page 773 of  Hansard  is  above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
At a meeting on 21 April 1976 I advised representatives of the Pharmacy Guild that the .Government's recent decisions in relation to remuneration of chemists for the supply of pharmaceutical benefits precluded acceptance of the Guild 's request for a Fees Tribunal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Action was taken by  Dr J.  B. Mathieson, Director of Health, Western Australia, acting in his capacity as Chief Officer and in accordance with Section 67 of the Public Service Act and General Orders 3/E/4. The Director-General of Health supported this course of action. 
and (4) Yes, such assurances can be given. 
and (6) Upon receipt of a Medical Certificate stating  Mr Toomer  was medically unfit to carry out his duties,  Dr Mathieson  referred the matter, in accordance with Section 67 of the Public Service Act, to the Public Service Inspector, Perth, recommending  Mr Toomer's  retirement on medical grounds. 
The specialist who examined  Mr Toomer  was selected by  Dr Mathieson  in consultation with the Director, Mental Health Services, Western Australia. He is regarded as one of the most eminent specialists in his field in Western Australia. 
None. The specialist who further examined  Mr Toomer  was nominated by  Mr Toomer,  to the Public Service Board. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1973-74-13 woollen blankets purchased; 1974- 75-50 woollen blankets purchased; 1975- 76,2 woollen blankets purchased 
1973-74-Nil; 1974- 75-Nil; 1975- 76- Nil. 
Consideration is given to such factors as climate and location where the blankets are required, e.g. in Northern Territory 4647 cotton (terry towelling) blankets were purchased in 1973-74. Other factors considered include patient comfort, durability, ease of laundering and cost. If contracts are available then blankets on contract are purchased. If contracts are not available then appropriate purchases are made under promulgated purchasing procedures. 
I am very concerned about the situation that exists in the Australian Capital Territory. It is a situation that I have inherited from the former Government in that there has been a very big division between the private practising doctors in Canberra and the salaried doctors. One of the big problems that I have had is to try to persuade both the private doctors and the salaried doctors that they have a place under the sun in Canberra. I am completely satisfied that salaried doctors are here to stay and have a very important role to play, just as I am satisfied that the private specialists and the private doctors also have a very important role to play in Canberra. 
There is a shortage of doctors in Canberra. I am not prepared to make any appointments until I have had adequate consultation with the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association and until the Government has taken a decision on what changes it intends to make to Medibank, because I will not take a decision in respect of the Australian Capital Territory that cannot be implemented in any one of the States. I have had a meeting with the Australian Capital Territory Salaried Staff Council and also with the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association, and I have arranged for a joint meeting of both bodies to be held at the earliest opportunity to try to ensure that they will assist in devising rules by which they themselves will work together in the hospitals. We are not prepared to stand by without taking some action to ensure that we close this division between the doctors. We must have the private and salaried doctors working as a team in the general public interest in Canberra. 
Once again, the honourable member is clearly aware of the divisions that exist between the salaried staff members of the Canberra hospitals and the private practitioners. There is fault on both sides because, as I understand the situation at the present time, some of the salaried specialists are not allowing some private specialists to use equipment in the Canberra hospitals. I am having an investigation made into that practice. I do not approve the bans, as they are called that apparently are imposed in the Australian Capital Territory and I will be having further discussions with the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association on this problem. Unless we get co-operation between the salaried staff members in the hospitals and private practitioners, the public, of course will suffer and I, as the Minister, cannot stand by and see that happen. Unless they can resolve their differences I will be taking actions to ensure that there is a resolution of the problem. 
I have already answered the question that the honourable member asks. But let me repeat that I, as Minister for Health, am concerned about a decision that was reported to me to have been taken by the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association. I have good reason to believe that that decision is being reviewed. In the meantime I shall take no further action whatsoever to divide the doctors in the Australian Capital Territory. 
-There have been a number of representations on this matter, and I am grateful for the representations that the honourable member for Wide Bay has made on the issue. It has been the subject of an investigation by the Medibank Review Committee. I will be considering any alterations that should be made to the claim forms when I receive the Committee's recommendations. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I require the debate to be extended. I rise to reply to the remarks made by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  I thank him very much for giving me notice that he would be raising the matter that he raised tonight. I, too, extend my sympathy to the victim who was so badly injured in the motor car smash in Woden on Monday night. I have heard several accounts of the incident. If the report referred to by the honourable member for Fraser is correct, I can only express my sorrow and horror. I give the honourable member an assurance that I have called upon the Australian Capital Territory Health Commission to furnish me with a report on the incident as a matter of urgency. 
Unfortunately, the former Government created divisions amongst the salaried and private specialists in the Australian Capital Territory. Most of the doctors, salaried and private alike, in Canberra are men of good will. There are extreme views amongst them on both sides. One thing is abundantly clear In the public interest and in the professional interest there must be a speedy reconciliation so that the doctors can work as a team in the public interest. I have already spent some considerable time since the change of government in trying to improve the relationship and in creating an atmosphere of trust amongst the Canberra doctors, salaried and private. I will continue to devote my energies to achieving this reconciliation amongst the Canberra doctors. 
To this end I have asked both the Council of 
Salaried Specialists in the A.C.T. and the Aus.tralian Capital Territory Medical Association to join me in a round table conference at the earliest opportunity so that they can play their part in devising regulations and rules under which they themselves can work together in the Canberra hospitals in the public interest. 
House adjourned at 11.3 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department has no knowledge of this Committee. 
and (3) Seed) above. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  commenced his address in this debate by saying: 'Medibank is about to be destroyed; Medibank is to go'. He chose to speculate and make assumptions and then to make out his case on those speculations and assumptions. It is characteristic of his misguided tactics- tactics that have proved to be disastrous to his own Party in the past. No doubt he hoped that, in any confusion he may generate, some political capital would flow to him and to his discredited Party. The Leader of the Opposition would have done his cause and the cause of his Party more credit if he had shown the patience to await an announcement of the Government's decisions in Parliament on Thursday. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  last night informed the Australian people that the Medibank Review Committee has been examining every aspect of the scheme. He assured the nation that it is not a question whether Medibank will be retained or not, because it certainly will be. The Prime Minister gave that assurance. He quite rightly raised the question how Medibank is to be financed. 
The Australian Labor Party, when in office, had a scheme to finance Medibank by imposing a straight levy of 1.35 per cent of taxable income. The purpose of this levy was to provide 50 per cent of the cost of Medibank and the other 50 per cent was to come from Consolidated Revenue. The then Opposition opposed that idea, and quite rightly so, because all the straight levy would have done would have been to lock into Medibank the rapidly rising cost structure of health care in Australia. It would have provided no opportunity to stabilise rising doctors' fees or health costs. Under the Labor Party proposal or formula it would have required not a 1.35 per cent levy to meet the next financial year's expenditure but a levy of over 2 per cent to raise the $900m that would have been necessary to meet half the cost of the anticipated $ 1,800m expenditure to cover Medibank in the next financial year. Such a proposal would have shown no regard or preferential treatment for the lower income earners, especially with the application of a ceiling, because this in fact would have protected higher income earners and would have put the great burden of the levy on those who had to pay the full amount under such a levy. As the Prime Minister said last night, high quality health care for all Australians is plainly very expensive. 
The Government believes that payment of health costs should be made in a way that can be seen by the doctors and the individuals concerned. The Government has consistently made it plain that Medibank will be retained, that the principle of universal coverage for health care will be retained, that there will be no means test at the point of service, but because of Medibank 's great expense and because of alleged abuses, rip-offs and overuse, we have always reserved the right to review its operations and methods of financing the scheme. In paying for Medibank the Government will make sure that the poorest people in the community do not have to make any payment. The Prime Minister said again last night: 
Those further up the income scale will still have very heavily subsidised cover under Medibank. Those who are better off still will be paying much more nearly the full cost of what Medibank provides. 
It will be well for the House to know something of the escalation of health costs and health care in Australia. Sure, Medibank in its present form has achieved universal coverage, but it also has some very serious weaknesses. Medibank has achieved universal coverage in its present form at the expense of very largely disregarding the need for economy and efficiency in overall health care expenditure by the individual and the community. It provides few incentives to economy in the use of health services either on the part of the consumer or, more particularly, on the part of the medical profession which has a key role in determining overall health costs. 
In its present form Medibank places on the State and Federal governments virtually the whole responsibility for financing the basic level of hospital and medical insurance. It does this not only for those who need assistance with their health care costs but also for those who can afford to pay for themselves. While funds for health services flowed from both the public and private sectors, the share of the burden accepted by the public sector has grown sharply in recent years- from 52 percent between 1963 and 1970, to 57 per cent in 1972-73 and to an estimated 74 per cent in 1975-76. Within the public sector the Commonwealth's share has risen from 55 per cent in 1972-73 to an estimated 73 per cent in 1975- 76. Not only has the Commonwealth's share grown quickly but also the actual amount of expenditure has risen from $260m in 1963-64 to an estimated $2,500m in 1975-76, which represents an increase of about 1000 per cent in a 12-year period. At the same time the State expenditure has risen from $20 1 m to $950m and private expenditure from $4 18m to $ 1,200m. Total expenditures on health in Australia are estimated at $4,700m in 1 975-76 and $5,400m in 1976- 77. The largest proportion of total expenditure, that is 54 per cent, goes on public and private institutional care- $202m goes to general hospitals; $107m goes to mental hospitals; $348m goes to nursing homes; and $1 17m goes to miscellaneous institutions. Another 42 per cent is spent on pharmaceutical goods, medical appliances and private medical and dental services. 
It is against this background of mounting expenditure for the treatment of the sick and a growing incidence of abuse and over use of medical services that the Government has reviewed the operations of Medibank. Any government that did not look at the total rising cost structure and analyse whether in fact every dollar spent is being spent wisely and that the health of the community has improved as a result, would be failing in its duty. One of the great factors that has been contributing to increasing costs of health care in Australia has been the rising costs in the medical profession itself. The Government has honoured its electoral commitments on Medibank as events will establish. However, it is characteristic of the Leader of the Opposition and the Labor Party to see no occasion to control costs or to attempt to achieve efficiency in health care to the advantage of the general public and certainly to the advantage of the more disadvantaged sections of the community. The former Labor Government's irresponsible and crazy record during its 3 years of office earned it the humiliating defeat that it deserved on 13 December last year. The present Government has set to work to re-establish some stability, some sanity in Government spending in order to restore and maintain one of the highest standards of living in the world. 
Our task has not been easy. As most people would know, it is easy to destroy; it is harder to build. Labor's policies were destroying the economic stability of Australia and thus threatening its social structure. The present Government is committed to rebuilding Australia so that there is job security for the people, production of wealth and social security in a real sense for the people. Notwithstanding the enormous task confronting the Government in restoring economic stability, the Government is not about to destroy Medibank or universal health coverage. Therefore I submit that the matter of public importance brought forward by the Leader of the Opposition is based on assumption. It is a nonsense, and the Government rejects it. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) 1 am aware of the reported comments of the Anglican Diocese of Sydney. The Archbishop's office sent to me a copy of the recent publication entitled 'Poverty- Is Money the Answer', which I have read with great interest. It is a commentary by the Anglican Diocese of Sydney on the First Main Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. I am hoping to meet with the Archbishop of Sydney in the near future to discuss aspects of this commentary and of reports previously published by the Archdiocese relating to poverty. 
The reports of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty cover a wide area and involve many Departments at both Commonwealth and State level as well as local authorities and voluntary agencies. Recommendations of the Poverty Commission relating to income security have received detailed consideration in my own Department and are currently being examined by the Income Security Review Committee in accordance with its terms of reference. Action is also being taken to ensure that work in all Departments on Poverty Commission recommendations is undertaken in a comprehensive and properly co-ordinated manner and as quickly as possible. 
and (4) Yes. The Government's policy is to direct assistance to those in most need and at the same time to encourage self-help and self-reliance. 
VIP Aircraft  (Question No. 431) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) There are 22 research reports from the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty remaining unpublished. 
Since the original announcement that my Department would not be able to fund the publication of further research reports at the original cost, I have been giving consideration to the whole question of how to ensure that the material in the reports can be made available. 
The Minister for Administrative Services and I have asked officers of my Department, the Australian Government Publishing Service and the Secretary of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty to discuss possible economies in the publishing program for research reports. Since that meeting, figures have been prepared which show that the remaining research reports can be published at a total cost of $70,000, a saving of $62,000 on the previous estimate. This saving can be achieved by reducing the number of copies available for free distribution, by increasing the sales price on each volume and by public tendering for printers instead of using standard forms of contract. The production standards of these reports will not be affected. 
On 30 April 1976 I wrote to the Treasurer requesting an allocation of $70,000 to publish the remaining reports. On 4 May 1976  Mr Lynch  approved the allocation and officers of my Department are now preparing several manuscripts for publication. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the year 1974-75 the following approximate quantities of goods considered to be potential carriers of disease were seized: 
Dairy products- 4.7 tonnes 
Meat and Meat Products- 6.7 tonnes 
Rawhide (including drums, trophies and souvenirs)- 1 250 items 
d) Fruit- recorded by number- 1 9865 articles 
Other Fruit- recorded by weight- 1 .5 tonnes (0 Dried Fruit- 134 kg 
Nuts- 1.1 tonnes 
Seeds- recorded by number of packets- 3741 packets 
Seeds- recorded by weight- 1 .4 tonnes 
Plants- recorded by numbers, bundles or  packages- 13 050 items 
Other plants- recorded by weight- 10 1 kg 
The goods specified in items (a), (b) and (c) were seized from approximately 8950 persons. No records are held as to the number of people from whom the goods listed in items ( d ) to ( k ) inclusive were taken. 
Prosecutions were launched against 97 persons during 1974-75. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Following the Australian Health Minister's Conference in May 1975, a joint Commonwealth/State Working Party was established to investigate, among other things, the advertising of alcohol. 
The Working Party has met on two occasions and has had discussions with liquor industry representatives. As a result, a draft code has been prepared which takes into account the dangers of undue emphasis on youth, sex and success in alcohol advertisements. This draft code has been referred for consideration at this year's Health Ministers ' Conference, on 30 June-2 July 1976. 
In  the  United Kingdom the voluntary body governing television and radio advertising is the Independent Television Companies Association. Its notes of guidance do not rule against the advertising of hard spirits, but there is an understanding that advertisements for hard spirits by brand will not be accepted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) The honourable member will appreciate that, in respect of a State, my Department has no jurisdiction to investigate the professional activities of private health clinics, nor to provide information on the qualification for registration as a medical practitioner of a particular person. Both these matters are the responsibility of the State health authorities. Accordingly I am unable to provide the detailed information sought. 
As a general comment on the effectiveness of the hormone HCG, I would mention that the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee, which considered HCG at its meeting in March 1976, expressed the opinion that it has not been demonstrated to be an effective adjunctive therapy in the treatment of obesity, nor it there any substantial evidence that it increases weight loss beyond that resulting from caloric restriction. 
I understand that there are registered medical practitioners employed at the Clinic. Patients of these registered medical practitioners are entitled to claim Medibank benefits for services provided on the basis of the items of medical service in the 1st Schedule of the Health Insurance Act. Benefits, however, are not payable in respect of non schedule services provided by the Clinic. Enquiries have been initiated by the Health Insurance Commission to ensure that payments are being correctly made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The United States Department of Agriculture and my Department have been in correspondence over a long period concerning veterinary health conditions which would be required to ensure safe importation of cattle semen from the United States. Examination of correspondence on this matter has not revealed a direct approach from the American National Cattlemen's Association. 
Cattle semen was permitted importation from Canada until March of this year, when the Canada Department of Agriculture reported the presence of bluetongue in that country. Australian importation conditions require certification by the Canada Department of Agriculture that bluetongue has not occurred in Canada for a period of 12 months immediately prior to the date of despatch of the semen. As this certificate cannot now be provided the importation of cattle semen from Canada has effectively been suspended. 
Since bluetongue is now reported to be present in Canada discrimination no longer exists. 
The differentiation which applied between the two countries prior to March 1976 was valid. Clinical bluetongue had not been reported in Canada before that time but the disease exists in a number of areas in the United States. The Canadian authorities maintained a program of continuous monitoring for cattle entering the country from the United States to alert them to the possible introduction of the disease from that source. 
Cattle semen is not imported from the United States because of technical difficulties in that country in providing conditions for the collection of the semen which ensure complete protection against subsequent transmission of bluetongue. These technical problems are being resolved. Less stringent conditions applied to Canada than could apply to the U.S.A. whilst the former country was free of bluetongue. 
The intake of Australian beef by the U.S.A. has no bearing on quarantine precautions necessarily taken by this country. 
The Department of Overseas Trade has advised the following: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Oriental fruit fly was detected on Melville Island in the Northern Territory last November. Because of the known significance of Oriental fruit fly in other pans of the world, a programme of suppression was designed and approved to contain the pest to Melville and Bathurst Islands. 
During subsequent surveys on the mainland, the pest was detected in the Northern Territory. Suppression activity was suspended and a decision on eradication deferred pending further information, including the extent of mainland infestation. 
Intensified surveys, undertaken since that time revealed that the Oriental fruit fly is distributed over 300 000 square kilometres of the Northern Territory. 
A considerable amount of biological data on the pest is being assembled following recent overseas studies by leading Australian entomologists. CSIRO is establishing a laboratory in Darwin for further biological assessment of the Oriental fruit fly species in Northern Australia. Quarantine measures have been instituted. 
Funds provided 1 975-76-$ 1 ,803,000.00; Funds expended 1975-76-5344,472.37. 
It is not known when or how Oriental fruit fly arrived in Australia and so specific deficiencies in quarantine legislation or administration cannot be identified. However, as a result of recent investigations both overseas and in Australia it is now concluded that Oriental fruit fly has been established in the Northern Territory for a considerable period of time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Grants made to date total $732,933. 
The contract for preliminary site works has been let and the anticipated date of completion of the first stage of the new hospital is late 1981. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I ) (a) Since July 1974, $227,300 has been provided from Australian Assistance Plan (AAP) funds to the regions mentioned. 
This amount consists of the following payments: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The Commonwealth Government's unemployment benefit scheme did not come into force until 1 July 1945. This scheme makes no distinction between males and females. Prior to that date all States except Queensland administered food relief systems for the unemployed. Queensland introduced a scheme of unemployment insurance in 1923. I do not know whether these schemes differentiated between males and females. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. The organisation was advised that a grant of $3,925 had been approved on 22 April 1976. towards meeting the cost of this vehicle. 
I was saying that health care costs have been growing rapidly both in Australia and most countries overseas. Whether any particular country is spending enough or too much is an open issue. However, making people more aware of the costs involved may be an important first step in any assessment. Moreover there is a clear need to control cost escalations that are not related to benefits and to ensure that as much value as possible is obtained for the money spent in both the public and private sectors. 
Doctors play a key role in determining overall costs because it is largely they who make the decisions to put patients into hospital, the length of stay, the need for and nature of operations or other courses of treatment. The costs generated by doctors are not restricted to their own fees, but involve the total costs resulting from the decisions they make. Efforts to curtail the growth in costs must therefore start with the decisions made by doctors. 
The Government attaches considerable importance to this matter and will ask the medical profession to institute systems of professional standards review, designed both to assess the quality of, and to seek the justification for, services rendered. The Government expects the profession to establish review arrangements in close consultation with the Department of Health. The participation of private insurers in the provision of information and in other ways will also be sought. Failure to have workable systems in operation within 3 years could result in the introduction of mandatory systems. Preliminary discussions with professional groups have indicated that they will co-operate in programs of quality assurance. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill gives effect to part of a Government decision which will be of far-reaching benefit to a very significant number of people who are amongst those most in need of financial assistance. It will do this by substantially increasing family allowances for families. Under this Bill it is proposed to increase payments to $3.50 a week for the first child, $5 a week for the second child. $6 a week for the third and fourth children and $7 a week for each other child. I ask leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the following table which compares existing rates with those proposed in the Bill. 
-The Government will be announcing tonight some of the measures that will be implemented. These will be adequate to ensure that contributors to health funds are protected. As to the latter part of the question, this is a matter that has been exercising my attention for some time. I will give consideration to the possibility of introducing legislation to ensure that contributors do have a democratic right to elect directors to national health funds. 
-I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the House is one of a number of Bills which are designed to authorise modifications to the health insurance program Medibank. The Government's proposals follow a comprehensive review of the operation of the health insurance program. This has been carried out with the assistance of the Medibank Review Committee which was appointed in January of this year. In formulating its proposals the Government has worked in close collaboration with the Committee over a sustained period. Because of this, the Committee has not prepared a written report for publication. I would like to thank the many people and organisations who made submissions to the Committee or participated in discussions with it. The Committee, and through it, the Government, have benefited very greatly from their assistance. I would also like to express the Government's appreciation to the members of the Medibank Review Committee for the excellent task that they have performed. 
Funds for health services flow from both the public and the private sectors. The share of the burden accepted by the public sector has grown sharply in recent years from 52 per cent between 1963 and 1970 to 57 per cent in 1972-73 and an estimated 74 per cent in 1975-76. Within the public sector, the Commonwealth share has risen from 55 per cent in 1972-73 to an estimated 73 per cent in 1975-76. Not only has the Commonwealth share grown quickly, but the actual amounts of expenditure also have risen from $260m in 1963-64 to an estimated $2,500m in 1975-76, which is nearly a 1000 per cent increase in 12 years. 
These rises have been associated with an increase in the proportion of gross domestic product devoted to health from 5.2 per cent 25 years ago to an estimated 6.5 per cent. Total expenditures on health in Australia are estimated at $4,700m in 1975-76 and $5,400m in 1976-77. The health insurance program is not concerned with all health services costs. It helps to pay for general hospital and medical services which will cost about $2,850m in 1975-76. The Commonwealth Government share of this expenditure would be over $ 1,800m if no changes were made. 
The Government is concerned to develop the most effective and efficient system of health services delivery and to ensure that every Australian has adequate access to high quality health care. The Government is therefore committed to the maintenance of universal insurance coverage for hospital and medical expenditure. Every Australian will continue to have the right to remain in Medibank. This is the basic concept of Medibank, and the Government is determined that it will be maintained. However, it is clear that Medibank in its present form has serious weaknesses. It has achieved universal coverage, but at the expense of largely disregarding the need for economy and efficiency in overall health care expenditures by the individual and the community. It provides few incentives to economy in the use of health services, either on the part of the consumer or, more particularly, on the part of the medical profession which has a key role in determining overall health costs. 
In its present form Medibank places on the State and Federal governments virtually the whole responsibility for financing the basic level of hospital and medical care. It does this not only for those who need assistance with their health care costs, but also for those who can afford to pay for themselves. Indeed, voluntary health insurance contributed only 8 per cent of the money that went towards meeting health costs in 1975-76, while in 1973 voluntary health insurance contributed 14 per cent. The cost of Medibank to the Commonwealth in the current financial year is estimated to be approaching $ 1,400m. If nothing were done, the cost next year would rise to over $ 1,800m. Moreover, the program is quite open ended and there is every likelihood that subsequent years could bring even larger increases. 
Finally, Medibank has threatened the continuance of private medical practice in hospitals. While the majority of the population has chosen to maintain insurance coverage which would allow them to be treated by their own doctor in hospital, there is considerable doubt whether they would have done so if an across the board levy had been introduced as the Labor Government proposed. In addition, the charges for intermediate and private accommodation in public hospitals have been set at unrealistic levels which deliberately undermine the competitive position of private hospitals. 
The Government is therefore proposing a number of modifications to Medibank, while retaining the principle of universal coverage. These proposed changes are designed to provide immediate savings to the Budget by encouraging people to take out their own health insurance with private insurance funds, and by requiring those who choose to remain in Medibank and who are able to contribute towards the cost of their hospital and medical care, to do so. As a result, Government subsidies out of general revenue will be concentrated on the members of the community who are in greatest need, yet means tests will be avoided. The changes we are proposing are also designed to provide incentives to the medical profession, and private insurers, to constrain costs by establishing competition between the public and private sectors. Competition between private insurers and Medibank should maintain both the quality of services and their cost efficiency. For virtually the first time in Australia the medical profession will have an incentive to participate in schemes to help curtail unnecessary usage and expenditure in order to maintain the long term viability of private practice. 
The Bill before the House provides for persons who are not privately insured persons to continue to be eligible for Medibank medical benefits. In addition, in accordance with the hospital agreements between the Commonwealth and State governments, they will continue to be eligible for free standard ward treatment in recognised hospitals. However, it is proposed, as a general principle, that those who choose to remain in Medibank will be required to contribute towards the cost of their health care by paying a levy of 2.5 per cent of their taxable incomes or by paying contributions to the Health Insurance Commission. I shall be introducing separate legislation to authorise the arrangements for people to contribute to the Commission. It is anticipated that the arrangement for people to contribute to the Commission will provide an effective ceiling on levy payments of about $ 1 50 a year for a person without dependants and about $300 a year for a family. 
By introducing a system of direct entry into Medibank by payment of a contribution, those who have a personal preference for Medibank, but have high incomes, will be able to exercise their preference. No one will be compelled to insure privately. Others on lower incomes who choose to pay the levy will receive the same benefits at a lower cost than the full premium and on a graduated scale related to their means. Those on the very lowest incomes will pay no levy. Briefly, people will continue to be eligible for the benefits of Medibank unless they have private insurance with a health benefits organisation registered under the National Health Act which will provide them with protection against the fees for the range of health services covered by Medibank. I shall be introducing separate legislation relating to the provision of this insurance. 
I want to emphasise that the only difference between coverage by Medibank and coverage under the standard private health insurance tables will be that Medibank will provide cover for treatment in public hospitals rendered by doctors engaged by the hospitals, whereas the standard private insurance tables will relate to shared accommodation in public or private hospitals with treatment by doctors engaged by the patient. Apart  from  this, there will be no difference in entitlements. For example, the medical benefits for treatment by a private practitioner outside of a hospital will be the same. The difference between Medibank and private insurance coverage will thus be no greater than already exists between those who at present rely entirely on Medibank and those who have taken out additional insurance coverage. 
I have already stated that the Medibank program is quite open ended. This is reflected in the provisions relating to the payment of medical benefits. The Government believes that these benefits should be directed to assisting individuals in meeting the fees they incur for professional services. However, such benefits should not be paid to relieve governments, government authorities, or employers of costs that, but for Medibank, would be borne by them. The Bill provides that medical benefits will no longer be paid in these circumstances unless the Minister otherwise directs. It is considered important that the Minister should have this power of direction to ensure that individuals are not disadvantaged in any circumstances. 
It is consistent with the approach that medical benefits under the Health Insurance Act should be directed to assisting individuals, that Medibank, through the payment of medical benefits in cases such as workers compensation and third party cases, should not relieve insurers of their liabilities. The Bill provides that, where persons have a right to, or have received compensation or damages under the law of a State or Territory related to fees for professional services, the Minister may take into consideration the compensation or damages paid or payable and determine that medical benefits are not payable or are payable at a reduced rate. Provision is also made for the Minister to make provisional payments of medical benefits where it appears that a claim may relate to expenses in respect of which compensation or damages may be payable. The provisional payments may, of course, be recovered in part or in full, as is appropriate, where compensation or damages are subsequently paid. 
Similar provisions relating to daily bed payments made in respect of patients in private hospitals have also been included in the Bill. The provisions are designed to protect individuals and providers of services while avoiding the present situation whereby Medibank is paying about $30m a year on workers compensation and third party claims. All States will be requested to adopt fee charging policies for compensation and damages cases in recognised hospitals, designed to achieve the Government's objective that the cost of such claims should be recovered from the insurers. 
There have been a number of allegations of abuses of Medibank by both doctors and patients through the provision of excessive or unnecessary services. This problem has been considered very carefully by the Government and the Medibank Review Committee. It is apparent that there are some abuses. It has been widely suggested that direct billing of Medibank by doctors, which is authorised by section 20 (3) of the Health Insurance Act, should be discontinued in order to reduce abuses. On the other hand, direct billing is by far the least costly way for Medibank to process claims and it is convenient for many patients and doctors. The Government has therefore decided to retain direct billing. However, the Bill permits practitioners who direct bill to charge the patient an amount in addition to the benefit payable by Medibank provided that the total charge does not exceed the scheduled fee for the service. This should provide the patient with an opportunity to scrutinise and query accounts. For pensioner health benefit recipients, practitioners will be asked to accept the Medibank medical benefits in full settlement. 
The Bill provides for the termination of arrangements under which cheques are issued in the name of the practitioner where a person lodges a claim for medical benefits and the medical expenses have not been paid. It is proposed that in future cheques will be issued to the claimant. Where evidence occurs of fraudulent practices, they will be dealt with by prosecution. This approach has already been adopted and several prosecutions are pending. However, the major problem is not one of fraudulent activity, but of the excessive use and provision of medical services. The Government believes that the best way of dealing with this problem is not by confrontation but by obtaining the co-operation of the medical profession to establish systems to restrain unnecessary usage. The changes being made by the Government to Medibank should help provide incentives for the profession. I shall refer to this again later. 
A number of cases have been revealed where services are being charged to Medibank which, because of the circumstances in which they are provided, do not warrant the payment of the usual Medibank benefit. The Bill provides that the Minister may refer such cases to the Medical Benefits Advisory Committee. If the Committee recommends that medical benefits should not be paid in particular circumstances, regulations may be promulgated to provide that the benefits are not payable. 
Section 18 of the Health Insurance Act at present prevents the payment of benefits for diagnostic services- pathology and radiology- to private patients in recognised hospitals. This section was a product of the previous Government's vendetta against private practice in hospitals and has caused serious anomalies. As a result the provision of diagnostic services has been impaired in many public hospitals. The Bill provides therefore for the repeal of this section. The Bill also provides for the present arrangements under which visitors from overseas are automatically eligible persons for the purposes of the Medibank program to be discontinued. Visitors will in future be informed that they are personally responsible for any health costs and will be advised to take out appropriate private insurance to cover their stay. However, arrangements will be made in cases of genuine hardship for visitors from overseas who have not insured to receive the benefits of the Medibank program. 
I wish to turn now to the hospital agreements between the Commonwealth and State governments. It is the Government's policy that privately insured persons should meet, through the private health insurance arrangements, an increased proportion of the cost of providing hospital services. It is proposed that a privately insured person whether an in-patient or an outpatient, should be able to obtain medical treatment in a recognised hospital from doctors engaged by the hospital. However, the Government proposes to discuss with the States the desirability of charging for medical treatment on an all-inclusive basis in these circumstances and also for medical treatment provided to outpatients. The Government will also propose to the States that recognised hospital charges be raised to $40 a day for shared accommodation and $60 a day for private wards. The present charges are unduly low and increases are necessary to restore the competitive position of private hospitals. The Government will maintain the daily bed payments of $16 a day for patients in private hospitals. However, where States would prefer for recognised hospitals that these payments cease as a separately identifiable component of the Commonwealth's payments under the hospital agreements, the Commonwealth will agree to the payments being discontinued providing the States undertake to provide adequate statistical information. 
The Government also proposes to enter into discussions with the States with a view to establishing a new basis on which the costs of operating hospitals will be shared. The present basis is open ended and does not provide, in the Government's view, adequate incentive for cost efficiency. 
This Bill includes a provision for the existing Hospital Agreements to continue but the heads of agreement in Schedule 2 to the Act have been revised to enable the Government, with the agreement of each State, to vary the agreement to achieve the objectives I have just outlined. I wish to emphasise that the modifications to the Medibank program are being proposed with much more than immediate Budget savings in mind. They will provide real incentives to the medical profession and private insurers to help constrain costs. 
Health care costs have been growing rapidly both in Australia and in most countries overseas. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill relates principally to private health insurance organizations. It contains many matters of detail which I will outline shortly. Before I do this, however, I want first to outline the Government's proposals as they will affect both the people who choose private health insurance and the health insurance organizations. 
People who choose to insure themselves and their dependants for benefits in accordance with the standard hospital and medical benefits tables provided by organizations registered under the National Health Act will be exempt from payment of the Health Insurance Levy. Briefly, the standard medical benefits table will provide the same level of medical benefits as Medibank. Included in the benefits payable in accordance with the standard hospital benefits table will be benefits sufficient to cover the charges for privately insured patients who are treated by their own doctors in the standard wards of recognised hospitals. 
These benefits will, of course, also be available for application towards the fees for accommodation in private hospitals. Those who choose private room accommodation will need to take out additional private insurance to cover the extra hospital charges. The setting of contribution rates for the standard tables will be a matter for the individual organisations but will continue to be subject to the surveillance of the Minister. There may be variations in contribution rates both between individual organisations and between States. However, it is estimated that the combined contribution rates for the standard tables will be of the order of$175 a year-$3.35 a week-at the single rate and $350 a year-$6.70 a week- at the family rate. 
While these are substantial amounts they still represent only part of the full cost of hospital and medical insurance when averaged over the community as a whole. The Government believes that those who are able to do so should meet a substantial proportion of their hospital and medical costs through direct insurance payments, rather than through taxes. Subsidies from general revenue can thus be directed to those with the lowest incomes. 
Treatment in recognised hospitals by private doctors will not be restricted to those who insure for the benefits I have just described. People who remain in Medibank will continue to be able to contribute to a hospital benefits fund for cover for the fees charged by recognised hospitals in these cases. The cost of this additional cover is estimated at $135 a year-or $2.60 a week- at a family rate and would be payable in addition to the levy. 
In one respect, the Government will be narrowing the differences in benefits available to Medibank and privately insured patients. At present, an additional benefit is paid by the private funds to their members while they are in nursing homes. This benefit is also paid by the Government to pensioners who satisfy a means test, but not to other persons. The Government has decided to extend this benefit to all persons who continue in Medibank after 1 October 1 976. The cost of this concession is estimated at $ 10m in a full year and $7.5m in 1 976-77. 
The changes being introduced by the Government will ensure a continuing role for private health insurance organisations. However, the Government does not intend that this should result in a mere reversion to the situation that existed prior to the introduction of Medibank. We believe that organisations will need to give much greater attention than in the past to economy and efficiency in their operations and to devising ways of keeping overall costs and contribution rates down. In the United States of America, health insurers have made substantial progress in developing methods of monitoring the usage of services, in co-operation with the medical profession, in order to eliminate unnecessary expenditure and so restrain costs to contributors. In Australia these developments have, so far, been totally neglected. The Government intends that this situation should now change. 
We have considered whether it would be desirable to permit commercial insurers to undertake health insurance business in Australia, in order to provide greater competition and to stimulate the adoption of new techniques to monitor usage and control costs. However, for the time being we have decided not to take this step and will restrict health insurance business to non-profit organisations. This will allow existing organisations to adapt to the new environment in which they will be in competition with Medibank and to develop their own arrangements to monitor usage in co-operation with the medical profession. 
To date medical and hospital benefits provided by most registered organisations have been cash benefits. Provisions in the Bill will enable registered organisations to expand their activities to include the provision of medical, hospital and other allied health services to contributors. The provisions will assist in creating an environment in which health maintenance organisations might successfully operate. The Bill requires hospital and medical benefits organisations, as conditions of registration, to admit any contributor to the standard benefits tables in respect of himself and any of his dependants. The conditions of registration also require organisations to limit any benefit waiting periods for contributors to the standard benefit tables to a maximum of 2 months and for no waiting period to be applied to persons who become contributors on or before 30 November 1976. 
-The period will be 2 months. Registered organisations will also be required to continue to pay benefits for contributors and their dependants for a period of 2 months after they cease to pay contributions. This requirement will enable levy relief certificates to be issued by organisations before the end of each financial year. To contain excessive billing of privately insured patients, organisations will also be required to limit medical benefits to amounts equivalent to the schedule fees. To discourage over-utilisation of hospital services benefits, these are to be limited to the fees charged, and where the medical services charge is less than the schedule fee, the medical benefit will be the lesser amount. 
Organisations will also be required to maintain records of contributors and their dependants. The Bill also provides for registered organisations to play a greater role than in the past in the care of the chronically ill. In the past, contributors or their dependants who were classified by the fund as having a pre-existing condition or as chronically ill, or who had prolonged stays in hospital, could be placed in a special account and the deficits in these accounts were met by the Commonwealth. The cost to the Commonwealth of these arrangements is estimated at over $60m in the current financial year. This would rise to over $100m next year with the expected increases in hospital charges. The Bill provides for these arrangements to be ceased, with effect from 1 October 1976, but special provision is made for them to continue to apply for persons who make claims after that date in respect of expenses incurred prior to that date. 
In future registered medical and hospital benefits organisations will be required to provide benefits for all contributors to the standard benefits tables regardless of their state of health. It is recognised that the financial liabilities of hospital benefits organisations resulting from this requirementt may vary quite significantly. The Bill provides for hospital benefits organisations to establish and maintain reinsurance accounts within their hospital funds to record these differing experiences to the extent that contributors attract hospital benefits in excess of 60 days in any period of 12 months. 
The Bill also provides for the establishment, operation and administration by trustees appointed by the Minister, of a Hospital Benefits Reinsurance Trust Fund. The Trust Fund will operate to even out differences between hospital benefits organisations in the incidence of hospital costs for chronically ill members, while at the same time ensuring that each organisation contributes towards these costs. The Commonwealth will make a fixed contribution to the Trust Fund. I propose that detailed arrangaments for the pool will be discussed with the registered hospital benefits organisations. 
In view of the above requirements the Bill provides for the Minister to review the registration of all organisations presently registered under the Act. Where the Minister is not satisfied that the organisation will be able to meet the requirements, he is empowered to cancel the registration of the organisation. An organisation which has had its registration cancelled will be able to apply for registration at any time from 1 October 1976, when it claims it will be able to meet the requirements for registration. 
The Bill provides power for the Minister to give directions relating to a number of matters including the rates of contributions, the scope and level of benefits, the provision of services and the admission of contributors and the provision of necessary information. It is not intended that these powers should be used extensively, or that they should be used in relation to contribution rates in such a way as to discourage competition between organisations. The Government's primary concern is to ensure that the benefits provided by organisations to contributors to the standard benefits tables are adequate, and that funds do not limit membership so as to discriminate against people who are regarded as poor health risks. Regulation by the Government will be kept to the minimum necessary to the achievement of these objectives and the protection of the interests of contributors and the provision of necessary statistical and other information. 
I have mentioned that the legislation confers power on the Minister to give direction in certain matters. In other areas, the  Minister  has power to decide whether the registration of the organisation, or changes submitted by, it in relation to matters contained in section 78 of the Act, should be refused. The Bill also enables the Minister to impose or vary a term or condition. These are significant powers and the Bill therefore provides, in new Part VII A, for a decision taken by the Minister in relation to the matters I have just outlined to be subject to review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, which will be operating at the time these provisions commence. As a corollary to its objective of universal coverage against medical and hospital costs for all persons in the community, this Government sees as its responsibility the need to protect the interests of persons who elect to contribute to registered medical and hospital benefits organisations. 
Consequently, the Bill includes provisions to enable the Minister, where it appears that a registered organisation is or may become unable to meet its liabilities or has contravened or failed to comply with requirements arising from the operation of the Act, to request an organisation to show cause why it should not be investigated in relation to specified matters. Where the organisation fails to satisfy the Minister, and he believes it to be in the contributors' interests, he may appoint an inspector to conduct an investigation into specified matters relating to the affairs of the organisation. The Bill further provides that after he has considered the report of the inspector, the Minister may take such action consistent with the Act as he considers appropriate. This may include making an application to the Australian Industrial Court for the appointment by the Court of a judicial manager to manage the affairs of the fund or for the fund to be wound up by the Court.- 
Then the honourable member would agree with that. 
-Do not tell me the honourable member will oppose it this time. The Bill also provides that the Minister may make application to the Court for the appointment of a judicial manager where the Minister is satisfied that the organisation has failed to comply with a provision of the Act, a term or condition of registration or a direction of the Minister. 
Provision is included in the Bill to require a judicial manager, appointed by the Court, to conduct the affairs of the fund with the greatest economy consistent with the efficiency and to report to the Court, as soon as possible, as to the course of action to be taken in relation to the fund. This could include recommendations to return the fund to its former management; to transfer all or part of its affairs to another organisation with the consent of the other organisation; or that the fund be wound up. 
The Bill provides for funds to be wound up under the supervision of the Court upon an application and in accordance with a scheme submitted by the Minister, the judicial manager or the organisation conducting the fund. All schemes for winding up are to be subject to confirmation by the Court which may vary the schemes. The Court is required where practicable to effect the transfer of contributors to a fund to be wound up to a fund conducted by another registered organisation. 
These provisions are similar to provisions in other legislation relating to the supervision of insurance business. Although I would anticipate that they would be used only rarely, except perhaps at the instigation of organisations which might apply to have a fund wound up, I believe that contributors should have the security of such provisions under arrangements deliberately designed to achieve universal health insurance. There are many provisions in the National Health Act which have become redundant. 
Commonwealth medical benefits have not been payable under the Act in respect of services rendered after 30 June 1975. Commonwealth hospital benefits have not been payable in respect of hospital treatment received by qualified hospital patients after 31 March 1976. As these provisions are no longer required the opportunity has been taken in this Bill to provide for their repeal. Provisions have been included in the Bill which ensure that benefits continue to be payable in respect of services provided on or before the .:es to which I have just referred. 
In view of the significance of the Government's proposals as they relate to the future role to be played by registered organisations, I have made arrangements to meet with representatives of the organisations. In addition, I have requested officers of my Department to arrange to hold more detailed discussions with representatives of the organisations in the near future. I am confident the Government will obtain the ready co-operation of registered health benefits organisations which will have an important role to play in providing health care protection for a significant percentage of the Australian community. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
(10.53)-I move 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In my second reading speech on the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1 976 1 explained that people would be able to choose to pay the health insurance levy of 2.5 per cent of their taxable incomes, contribute to the standard benefits tables of registered medical and hospital insurance organisations, or contribute to the Health Insurance Commission. The Bill before the House provides for persons to contribute to the Health Insurance Commission on behalf of themselves and any dependants. Such persons will be exempt from the levy. Precise contribution rates will be determined when the contribution rates of the major private health insurance funds are known. As a guide, annual contribution rates to Medibank are expected to be about $ 1 50 a year for a person without dependants and about $300 a year for a family. 
I wish to emphasise that this contribution process provides an effective ceiling on levy payments. By introducing a system of direct entry into Medibank by payment of a contribution, those who have a personal preference for Medibank, but have high incomes, will be able to exercise their preference. No one will be compelled to insure privately. This Bill ensures that every Australian can exercise his right to remain in Medibank. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-That is a very good question. I shall give a detailed answer to it later. The Taxation Office never reveals information. We have referred a Bill relating to privacy to the Law Reform Commission. One of the terms of reference of the Commission is to examine ways and means of ensuring that the privacy of individuals is preserved. We will be studying measures that need to be taken to protect the privacy of individuals. 
-The modified Medibank proposals do not come into force until 1 October. We will not know what adjustments need to be made until it has been in operation for a period. If there are to be any reductions in the staff of the Health Insurance Commission appropriate steps will be taken to ensure that nobody is unduly harmed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

The research experiments at Plum Island showed that foot and mouth disease virus survived in the cheddar and camembert cheeses tested but not in the mozzarella cheese included in the experiments. 
Quarantine: Grain Ship MV  Tyrol  (Question No. 548) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As the shortage of Myocrisin is only of a temporary nature it is unlikely that it will cause a problem for sufferers from arthritis. In addition, this medication is usually only given on an intermittent basis. 
I understand that adequate supplies should become available during June. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Australia's quarantine requirements include comprehensive provisions to minimise the possibility of introducing foot and mouth disease from imported foodstuffs or by means of passengers entering Australia. These provisions are applied with close regard to the implications, of foot and mouth disease for Australia's livestock industry. There is no foreseeable danger to the Australian livestock industry from these sources which is not already the subject of precautionary or preventive quarantine action. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The fact that Australia is free from many exotic animal and plant diseases is largely due to the effectiveness of quarantine precautions including the Customs examination of passengers' baggage. 
There is no 30 per cent search requirement  per se  and passengers are classified according to the degree of risk which it is believed each group presents. Dependent on the disease status of their country of origin passengers from selected groups may be subjected to a complete ( 100 per cent) baggage examination; conversely passengers from countries with a similar disease status to Australia may only be examined on a random basis. There is therefore a wide variation in the percentage of passengers whose baggage is searched on a per flight or per ship basis. 
Quarantine and Customs officers work alongside one another in examining passengers' baggage. Close liaison is maintained at the operative level. Quarantine activity in relation to incoming travellers is the subject of on-going consultations at various levels between officers of the two Departments. 
See (2) above. One hundred per cent checks for quarantine purposes are made from time to time of the baggage of passengers from particular countries and on different flight and ships. In the interests of effective future quarantine operations, I would prefer not to disclose details which might allow the patterns of quarantine baggage inspections to be determined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In the first year of the Hospitals Development Program (1974-75) some specific projects were funded. However, no specific funding was made in that year for Boonah, Richmond or Yeppoon. 
Under the Program as currently administered, Commonwealth funds are not allocated to individual projects but are used to supplement total approved State programs. In the current year, $ 1 5.28m has been allocated to Queensland to supplement their total program which includes Boonah, Richmond and Yeppoon Hospitals. 
The anticipated dates of completion of the new hospitals are as follows: 
Boonah-May 1977 
Richmond-February 1977 
Yeppoon-April 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government has paid $10,000 for the initial planning of a new hospital at Karratha. 
Advice received from the Western Australia Medical Department (Hospitals) has revealed that there has been no further planning of the new hospital as there is an urgent need for a Community Health Centre. Therefore, no completion date is available at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A proposal for the provision of a modern efficient incinerator especially designed for the disposal of food waste at Perth airport has been listed for consideration in the formulation of the 1976-77 Civil Works Program. Subject to this inclusion in the program it is envisaged that construction could commence towards the end of the 1976-77 financial year, after allowing for design work to be finalised, tenders to be called and a contract entered into by the Department of Construction. 
The existing incinerator facilities at Perth airport are the responsibility of the Department of Transport. However, it is understood that apart from routine remedial work such as rebricking etc., no improvements as such have been made to the Perth airport incinerator since March 1974. 
Let me reply, firstly, by saying: 'Rubbish!' Under the proposed scheme there will be no means test at the point of service. There will be no division. No Australian person will be forced out of Medibank. Even the highest income earner in Australia can take out a $300 a year package to cover himself and his family, and a single person can take out a $150 a year package. It is not designed to and it will not cause the divisions that the Australian Labor Party would like to see created in this community. What it does, firstly, is provide the widest ranging choice that any health scheme has ever offered the Australian people and, secondly, it identifies the charges for health care in this country. Nobody has a free meal in this country. What is more, so much has been said about a free health scheme that never existed. The taxpayers in this country have been paying for it. Those in the higher income levels will be paying closer to the cost of their health care under this proposal. Pensioners and people on the lowest incomes will be getting their health care free to them at the point of service. 
Queenslanders will enjoy the same wide ranging choices of the type of health cover that all other Australians will obtain. We are not discriminating against the Queenslanders. All Medibank patients in Queensland will, under the new proposals, have access to medical' and standard accommodation at no cost to themselves at the point of service. Those dependent on pensions and the lowest income earners will pay no levy for those services, and those on the higher incomes will have the choice of remaining in Medibank or taking out private insurance for themselves for intermediate or private ward accommodation with doctors of their choice. It is true that Queensland has had a free hospital scheme for inpatients and outpatients for some years but, as I said earlier, nothing is really free. The free hospital system in Queensland was brought in some years ago because Queensland gave that form of service a higher priority than, say, rail freights which have been very high in Queensland. But it is the people who pay for the so-called free service. 
There will be no means test at the point of service. For those who are privately insured the Queensland Government will have the right to charge against the insurance fund the costs of accommodation in the hospital for x-rays and other hospital services. All public and private hospitals will continue to receive $16 a day as a subsidy towards the bed patient. The State mental hospitals are a matter of concern to the States and indeed for that matter to the Commonwealth Government. The Government will be discussing these and other possible changes to the heads of agreement with the State Ministers in the very near future. 
I have seen reports such as those mentioned by the honourable member for Capricornia. My answer to his first question is categorically no. Ships which have a berth to go to are cleared by quarantine and customs officials on arrival at the berth, 7 days a week, 24 hours a day. Ships which do not have a berth to go to anchor in the bay approximately 3 miles off-shore and are cleared as soon as possible by quarantine and customs officials during normal working hours even though they may not be brought to berth for some days. No ships 's personnel or passengers are permitted ashore until customs and quarantine clearances have been granted. I have checked with my department and I am assured that this requirement is rigorously enforced by the customs officers and officers of my department at Gladstone. There is no record of this requirement having been contravened. 
I am sorry that the honourable member is not interested, but other honourable members may be interested. The suggestion that crews are free to go ashore before clearance is completely without foundation. I am sure that the honourable member for Capricornia will be pleased to be able to convey that information to the people in his electorate who are very concerned about the possible introduction of diseases into this country that could affect both the human and the animal populations. 
I understand from the representations of the honourable member for Paterson that there is a shortage of influenza vaccine in the city of Maitland. Certainly there has been a shortage in quite a number of regional areas. In defence of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories I have to say that CSL was the first laboratory in the world to develop the vaccine. By the end of June it will have produced, by its employees working 7 days a week, not less than 2 million doses of A Victoria influenza vaccine. I think there is it something of a panic in the communitygenerated by the media to some extent and by people who have been concernedbecause of an assertion of another influenza outbreak in the United States of America called Swine influenza. The outbreak was contained in a place in New Jersey where there were 18 cases. Two patients died. No such cases have since been reported yet the United States Administration has embarked upon a complete national vaccination program. 
At the present time in Australia, as a result of the recommendations of the National Health and Medical Research Council, we are limiting availability of the vaccine on the medical benefits list to children under 5 years of age, to pensioners and to people with chronic respiratory and cardiac diseases. We estimate that there are about half a million of these people in Australia. The CSL has produced 1.186 million doses of this vaccine to date. I have been in touch with representatives of the Laboratories who have assured me that they have dispatched to wholesalers in each of the States the appropriate amount which is worked out according to a ratio of the number of applications in each State divided by the number of doses available overall. The wholesalers have a responsibility to ensure that the vaccine is fairly distributed throughout each of the States. We have, of course, been in touch with as many people as possible to ensure that there is a fair distribution. Whilst there was a greater panic two or three weeks ago, I sense that supplies are getting through on a better scale in the last week or two and that people are recognising that there is not the same great threat from this influenza strain as was at first thought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Medical Benefits Schedule does not differentiate between referred pathology services provided by specialist pathologists and pathology services provided by other medical practitioners. In addition, the statistical information available under the previous Scheme did not specify the services performed, by specialist pathologists. Accordingly, the information sought by the honourable member is not available. 
While I have been informed that pathology departments at a number of hospitals have a different pattern of utilisation since the introduction of Medibank, the evidence needed to determine overall whether all hospital pathology departments are being under-utilised, or for that matter, over-utilised, is not available to me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In the first year of the Hospitals Development Program ( 1974-75) some specific projects were funded, including $ 126,947 for Bundoora and $34,100 for Sunshine. Under the present five year program of capital grants, Federal funds are used to supplement total approved State programs and not individual projects. For that reason I am unable to provide information in the form sought by the honourable member. 
In the current year $27.28m has been allocated to Victoria to supplement their total program. 
Bundoora- The Hospitals and Charities Commission of Victoria has advised that sketch planning is proceeding at the moment and that no definite date for completion of the first stage of the complex can be given. 
Sunshine- The Hospitals and Charities Commission of Victoria has advised that sketch plans for the first stage of the Sunshine Hospital and Health Services complex have been completed, detail design is proceeding. It is estimated that construction of stage 1 will be completed in November 1977. Planning for stage II of the complex is proceeding but no definite date can be given for completion of stage II. 
New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement (Question No. 443)  Mr Young  asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether the announcement by the New Zealand Government that talks on the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement have been postponed, indicates that New Zealand is considering pulling out of the Agreement. 
What steps is he taking to correct the imbalance of trade between Australia and New Zealand. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To 19 May 1976, 19 members of the House of Representatives have presented a total of 38 petitions concerning the availability of cows' milk substitutes as pharmaceutical benefits. 
The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee will consider the availability of cows' milk substitutes as pharmaceutical benefits for the treatment of cows' milk allergy in children, at its next meeting scheduled for 24 and 25 June 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no record of specific medical evidence considered by the then members of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee in 1973 when the Committee recommended that goats' milk availability as a pharmaceutical benefit be extended for children from under the age of 4 to under the age of 6 years. 
) No specific new medical evidence has been considered by the Committee. However, the Committee did have the benefit of discussion on this subject with representatives of the Australian Paediatric Association prior to recommending a reduction in age to under 1 8 months for patients eligible to receive milk substitutes as benefits for cows' milk allergy. 
I am not aware of research being conducted into these matters at present. 
-The Australian Labor Party-the Leader of the Opposition and every member of it- can take some of the blame for any panic that has been created in respect of the modified Medibank proposals. For the sake of those who are concerned, let it be understood that there will be no change in the present scheme until 1 
October. The Government is currently preparing some hundreds of thousands of pamphlets which in the next week or two will be made available at public places so that the Australian people will have a clear understanding of the wide ranging choices that are available to them. We are concerned that migrants and people generally are being panicked into making such a rush for claims. I appeal to the Australian people not to be concerned. There will be no change to the situation until 1 October. By that time every Australian will be able to make an intelligent decision as to what suits him or her best of the wide ranging choices of health care cover that are available. 
I thank the honourable member for a very good question. Let me say for his information and for the information of the Australian people that the Government has resolved to maintain bulk billing, to the advantage particularly of pensioners and low income earners. The Government will prevail upon the medical profession to ensure that its members do not charge a moiety or make an additional charge to pensioners and low income families. In other cases the doctor will be able to charge a moiety up to the additional 15 per cent as long as it costs no more than $5 for any one service. We have decided that, instead of there being a 'pay patient' cheque, if the patient makes a claim there will be a 'pay doctor' cheque sent back to that patient as before. We intend to amend the legislation to overcome what could have resulted in an obvious problem. 
In respect of professional standards and perhaps the excessive provision of medical services, we intend to establish a peer review of professional standards. We will ask the Australian Medical Association, the private health funds, the Australian Hospital Association and other interested groups to become engaged in a peer review of medical standards in Australia. We hope to see developed an adequate peer review system which will result in a more efficient and, I think, a more desirable health care delivery process. If the profession and those other allied groups are unable to come to grips with this problem within 3 years then the Government will consider introducing mandatory measures to try to overcome the problem to which the honourable member refers. But we have every reason to believe that the AMA and other people involved in the medical profession are as anxious as the Government is, and indeed as anxious as the Opposition is, to see the peer review system achieve some real progress in this matter. 
-If what the honourable member for Capricornia implied in his question is correct, it is a matter of serious concern to me as the Minister for Health. Clearly, the Government has a no risk policy in respect to quarantine matters, particularly in relation to diseases that affect both people and animals. We will continue to maintain that no risk policy. In view of the fact that the honourable member claims that the people of Capricornia do not agree with the information I gave to the House, I shall ask senior officers of my Department to investigate the matter and report to the honourable member in due course. I note also the honourable member's reference to  Mr Elliot.  I know that he has been concerned about the matter and I have received a message from him. I assure the honourable member that I shall undertake an inquiry into this matter and report in due course. 
The honourable member will be interested to know that we will not be withdrawing the Medibank cards from the Australian people. 
If you listen your confusion might be somewhat lifted from your shoulders. 
May I continue to try to overcome the confusion you suffer? 
-I have noticed the suggestion that the levy might vary from State to State. It would be quite ridiculous of course and quite unconstitutional for a levy of this type to vary from State to State. The people of Queensland will be entitled to the same wide ranging choices as other Australians. I am sure that the people of Queensland will be quite happy to make their contribution towards the choices that are available to them. As I said last night on a television program, there is no such thing as a free meal. There might be a free breakfast at Tiffanys, but even those breakfasts can cost quite a lot. 
The principal requirement is that the funds provide the standard cover for intermediate ward accommodation and cover for 85 per cent of the scheduled fee. They will have to provide to the Minister a nominated premium for that cover. The other ancillary benefits they may offer is their business. 
It is up to them. We are interested in the standard cover. We are interested in the conduct of the operation. All funds will have to comply with the conditions which are laid down in the Bill. They will be rigidly enforced. I have no reason to believe that the enforcing of those conditions will militate against the funds to which the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  referred which, in the past, have had no difficulty in providing a good and efficient service to their contributors. 
I do not think the occasion will arise because, in the past, all organisations have been able to meet the requirements. In any event, a lot of the smaller funds are very efficient. By 15 August they must submit to us a notice of compliance with the Act and certify with us before they will be able to register to provide cover. The other point raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is contained in the Bill. In the event of a fund believing that a decision that the Minister has taken has been arbitrary and unfair it can appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal which will be operative as from 1 July. The fund will be able to appeal against the decisions both of the Minister and of an officer of the Department. 
-A Bill will be introduced to ensure that no State, no hospital, or more importantly no people or patients will be disadvantaged as a consequence of omitting those clauses and the whole Schedule which have proved to be invalid. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has informed me that on 15 April 1975 revised procedures for quarantine operations relating to bamboo ware, rattan and cane were circulated. 
Prior to 15 April 1975 all importations of bamboo, cane and rattan manufactured articles were ordered into quarantine for treatment on arrival in Australia unless they were accompanied by an acceptable treatment certificate. 
The new procedures circulated on 15 April 1975 related to bamboo, cane and rattan articles contained in passengers' baggage, unaccompanied baggage and parcel post. These articles are now inspected and only ordered into quarantine for treatment when found infested by insects. Procedures for handling all other imports of these articles have not been altered. 
Procedures for wooden articles and straw articles have not been altered. 
The new procedures are a relaxation. 
The Government has a no risk policy with respect to the introduction of diseases from other countries, and particularly foot and mouth disease. I am sure it is no accident that foot and mouth disease has not entered Australia. If there was one case of foot and mouth in Australia the consequence of that event would be that Australia would lose its total market for beef to the United States of America, Japan and to practically every country. We would have no alternative but to slaughter the whole of the sheep population of Australia because it would not pay to vaccinate sheep at today's prices. Furthermore, if foot and mouth disease ever got into our wild or feral pig population it would be doubtful whether we could ever contain foot and mouth disease in the cattle population in Australia. The net result of that could well be a loss of somewhere of the order of $2 ,000m worth of exports. It is against that background that the Government took a decision, on advice from the Bureau of Animal Health and also from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which conducted an evaluation of the Plum Island - 
The trade department was in fact informed. 
It was informed. It was a decision not arbitrarily taken. It was a decision that was taken as a consequence of the recommendation of CSIRO officers who had done an evaluation of the Plum Island report. We have not yet promulgated or gazetted regulations but they are being prepared currently to ensure that cheese coming from countries where foot and mouth disease is prevalent is withheld for a period of 120 days to ensure that the risk from contamination or the risk of the virus becoming free in Australia is prevented. We are looking at experiments that are being conducted in regard to other cheeses that are produced under heating processes. Of course we would have a further look at whether it is possible to allow cheeses that have been properly bonded and properly processed to ensure they are free of any contamination from infected cheeses to come from those countries, but those cheeses will come into Australia only if we are satisfied that there is no way that they can introduce foot and mouth disease into Australia. 
Last night the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  raised 2 points - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! before the Minister speaks I would point out that no other honourable member has risen. I presume the House appreciates that the Minister is closing the debate. 
Yes, I am speaking in accordance with an understanding or an agreement I made last night with the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Prospect. I am now answering 2 points that the honourable member for Prospect raised at the Committee stage yesterday concerning- the Government's proposals to withdraw income tax rebates for "children and substantially increase child endowment. 

 His first point was that he considered that the tables illustrating the total effect of the package should have been based not on the rebate for children that had previously been allowable, $200, but on that amount as notionally indexed, $226. 1 must disagree with the honourable member on this point. The tables are, of course, intended to compare the existing position of taxpayers with what their position will be after all of the proposed changes have been effected, and that is what they do. It is not really relevant whether the rebates for children would have been indexed if those rebates had not been withdrawn. But even if one were to speculate, as the honourable member does, that if the rebate had not been withdrawn it would have been indexed up to $226, it would be incorrect, and confusing, to use that figure in the tables. If that were done, all that the tables would show would be a comparison between some notional position and the position that will obtain when all of the proposed changes have been effected. 

 His second point related to the effect that the abolition of tax rebates for children and their replacement with increased child endowment payments would have on a man who is paying maintenance to his wife or former wife in respect of children. As the honourable member correctly pointed out, the husband or former husband will lose any income tax rebates that he would previously have been allowed in respect of his contribution towards the maintenance of the children, while his wife or former wife will receive the benefit of the increased child endowment payments. It is also correct that no provision is made for continuing income tax rebates for children in these circumstances. To have done so would have necessitated fundamental changes in the new system. And it is difficult, on taxation principles, to see why a distinction should be made between the provision of maintenance for children in this way and that provided in ordinary family circumstances. 
The fact is that no system can be so constructed as to cater for each and every variant of personal or domestic circumstance. Before introducing the new system of assistance for the maintenance of children, the Government very carefully examined its social consequences, and came to the view that any disadvantages were greatly outweighed by the advantages. It was not considered practicable, or appropriate, to provide special treatment in the income tax law for persons in the situation described by the honourable member who considers that there will be a significant unfair transfer of extra child maintenance from the father to the mother who is looking after the children. The more appropriate course in these circumstances would appear to be for the father to confer with the mother to see whether some reasonable accommodation to the new situation is not practicable and, if there is a court order for the maintenance of the children, to seek variation of the order on an agreed basis. 
The honourable member for Prospect also raised a point regarding the health insurance levy. He took the case of a married man whose wife has a modest income sufficient to disqualify her as a dependant for income tax rebate purposes but not sufficient to require her to pay levy. The honourable member said that in such a case the husband, as his wife would not be a dependant, could avoid paying the levy by paying the 'single rate ' premium of $ 1 50 to Medibank. This is not so. For the purposes of the levy, a taxpayer's spouse will be a dependant of the taxpayer irrespective of the spouse's income if the couple are residing together or the taxpayer contributes to the maintenance of his or her spouse. A husband in such a case would thus need to pay the 'married rate' premium to Medibank or take private insurance at the 'married rate' to avoid being required to pay the levy. 

<graphic href="099131197605274_25_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="099131197605274_25_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
I move: 
Omit  paragraphs (a)  and (b). 
The existing arrangement, under section 20 (2) of the Health Insurance Act, authorises, where a person claims medical benefits but has not paid medical expenses to which the claim relates, a cheque is to be drawn in favour of the practitioner which is forwarded to the claimant. That . arrangement has caused administrative difficulties for the Health Insurance Commission and for some practitioners, and those difficulties are reflected in the additional administrative costs. Further, some doctors have refused to accept the cheques because they are Medibank cheques. Provisions were therefore included in paragraphs (a) and (b) of clause 6 of the Bill to terminate the arrangement. However, the Government has given further consideration to the effects of the alternative arrangement that would result, that is, to pay cheques in the name of the claimant to the claimant. That alternative arrangement could encourage the situation where the claimant may not pay the practitioner's account notwithstanding that medical benefits have been paid. That would be an unsatisfactory situation, and the Government is therefore proposing that the existing arrangements be retained. The possibility of achieving greater efficiency through administrative modifications to the existing arrangements will be explored. So what the amendment does is to go back to square one, where we were previously, in respect of pay doctor cheques. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  raised a couple of matters to which I would like to refer. He raised the question of visiting diagnosticians' services attracting payment of medical benefits and hospitals in the utilisation of hospital staff. He might recall that the Government set up a committee under  Dr Sax.  The membership of the committee was drawn from the Australian Medical Association, the Royal College of Pathologists of Australia and the Practising Society of Private Pathologists plus a couple of other people. I am expecting to receive the report from the committee on short term measures that are necessary to try to overcome the current embarrassing situation both to the profession and, I am sure, to the taxpayer. By the end of the year we hope to have a report on the longer term measures that are necessary to overcome some of the anomalous situations that have been developing in the diagnostic area generally and also in the pathology area in particular. Obviously the honourable member for Prospect is well aware of what has been going on. 
Increases in the cost of health in Australia have been a problem that has been of concern to us and, as the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  said last night, to most western countries. What has been going on in Australia today is being repeated elsewhere. I think that by modifying Medibank to the extent that we have we may be able to put some of the brakes that are necessary on rising medical and health costs in Australia. The estimated health cost for Australia next year which will affect all governments, State and Federal, and the private sector is of the order of $5,000m. This cost is rising at a very rapid rate. For instance the Commonwealth's share of the burden has increased by 1000 per cent in about 12 years. 
Under our proposals people can do 2 things. They can choose to remain in Medibank. All Australians can remain in Medibank because this system is being retained. Families on higher incomes can, if they so wish, obtain the type of services that the honourable member for Maribyrnong mentioned- the services available in our great public hospitals- and can take out, in approximate terms, a $300 family premium or package that will cover them for the cost of treatment in standard wards of public hospitals with hospital staff engaged by the hospital. Most of our larger hospitals, of course, have outstanding salaried staff. The family will also be able to recoup 85 per cent of the scheduled medical fee. 
Those people who want to do their own thing and decide to insure themselves so as to have the choice of doctor to attend them in the hospital and also be accommodated in what they might regard as more comfortable accommodation in public hospitals or private hospitals in intermediate or private wards can do so by insuring with a fund. We understand that this service will cost somewhere of the order of $350 a year for a family or $175 a year for a single person. What this is doing, of course, is creating a situation where if doctors' fees in the fee for service area rise faster than the average increase in average weekly earnings it will tend to push people back into Medibank by their hundreds of thousands because if the standard Medibank package proves to be - 
Well, if it proves to be so much cheaper than private insurance which offers feeforservice the competitive situation will be such that people not only will start to think about having the choice of doctor but also they will start to think about the desirability of staying in Medibank from a financial point of view. So the system does, I think, provide a sense of discipline within the medical profession itself. I am sure that the medical profession as a body is conscious of it 
-So much dearer? 
The reason for that, of course, is that people on lower levels of income are getting a much greater subsidy contribution towards their Medibank health cover than do people in the upper levels. 
-A family on the $13,000 to $14,000 income level can take out a $300 standard Medibank premium which is very close to cost. 
First of all, in reply to the questions from the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden ) let me say that the approximate $300 premium that was set for a standard Medibank package, as it is called, provides a family with standard ward accommodation in a public hospital and also with benefits involving 85 per cent of the scheduled fee. In other words, people receive Medibank benefits. A single person will pay half that amount. The $300 not only goes very close to meeting the cost of providing that service but it also provides an effective ceiling. In other words, if there were not that sort of arrangement whereby people or families on the $13,000 to $ 14,000 income level could opt out of Medibank, people earning $40,000 a year would be paying enormous amounts, far beyond what would be judged to be fair, to remain in Medibank. Those people would be forced out of it. So the arrangement serves 2 purposes. It does not provide a tremendous subsidy to a man or a family on a high income and it goes pretty close to covering the cost of services. 
The next question relates to the amount of $135 for a family or approximately $68 for a single person for hospital only insurance. We are talking about levy payers where the family's total income is about $9,000 net. At about that point it will pay that family to insure privately for medical and hospital attention, but below that point if the family wants to exercise the right to ave their own doctor in a hospital in a standard ward accommodation it will pay the family to pay the  2Vi  per cent levy on the joint or aggregated income and pay approximately $135 a year- that is our estimate- to a fund to obtain that sort of cover. The reason hospital only insurance is higher today is that we have allowed for an increase in bed charges in private and intermediate accommodation in the public hospitals in the States because we can see no justification for keeping bed charges down at a very heavily subsidised rate in private and intermediate wards for the benefit of those people who choose to insure themselves for what they may regard to be more comfortable accommodation and the right to choose a doctor. If we allowed that situation to occur what we would be asking the levy payers and the lower income people to do would be to subsidise a person who chooses to insure himself and his family for what he regards to be more comfortable accommodation in a hospital with choice of doctor. That is the reason we estimate that the hospital only insurance premium will be higher, it is because of the day bed charges in public hospitals. 
-Higher against the present $20 and $30 a day heavily subsidised private and intermediate ward accommodation in public hospitals in the States. 
No. 
-The point here is that the ceiling or the premium, if you wish to call it that, is to be determined in consultation with the Treasurer and guidelines for the method of determining the increase have not yet been determined, but I would not see the need to review the premium except say once a year. I think it would have to be reviewed about once a year. There are 2 factors in it. The $300 that a family will pay will be fairly close to the cost. It does look as though it is out of parity when you go down the line to people on a lower income level who will pay only $150 and then add the $135. But with the subsidy down the line there are 2 cost components coming out of general revenue to assist people. I think honourable members need to know that the levy itself will raise somewhere of the order of $330m according to our expectations. We expect about another $440m to be saved in outlay as a consequence of people opting out to insure themselves privately. The balance of the $8 10m that we expect to save in a full year will come from administrative savings, recouping of money from insurance companies for workers compensation and third parry cover and so on. So the biggest contribution we would hope to relieve the pressure on Government expenditure will be from the people who opt out to insure themselves for full medical cover. 
The other point raised by the honourable member for Oxley related to the re-insurance pool. An amount of $50m will be put into that pool. One of the conditions that will apply to the funds will be that they will have to participate in that pool before they can get registration. The purpose is to ensure that chronically ill people are not disadvantaged. We are not going to allow pre-existing ailments to prevent them from getting existing benefits. This will make some contribution to ensuring that the funds do look after those people with chronic illnesses, which are defined as those illnesses which keep people contained in hospitals for 60 days in a full year. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 1 7 omitted. 
Schedule omitted. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I want to respond quickly to three or four points. In respect of the comment by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  that he did not see why we do not allow the Health 
Insurance Commission to provide a private insurance package for intermediate ward accommodation and also for private ward accommodation if necessary, the Government considered this aspect but ultimately decided against it. It was felt that it may not have been as efficient as all that at this stage. We do not have a proposition before us at the moment but, as the honourable member would know, the Health Insurance Commission could at any stage be able to provide that sort of cover if necessary. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  raised two very important points. Those honourable members quite rightly expressed concern for those people who have suffered chronic illnesses. They well remember the exclusion rules that used to apply in respect of pre-existing illnesses. Of course there was a long wait before people could get cover. I hope those days will never return. To an extent, this legislation ensures that it will not happen. Clause 73BF of the legislation contains a provision that directs the funds to admit a person as a contributor to a registered organisation. In other words, the fund cannot reject a person because of his previous medical history. But if a person decides to opt out of paying the levy or decides that he wants to opt out of the Medibank premium there will still be a 2 months waiting period in which he will be covered by Medibank. If he chooses to leave a fund and decides that Medibank is good enough for him and that he will be happy enough to be a Medibank contributor, there will be a 2-month period in which the fund will continue to be liable for benefits to cover that person as a  quid pro quo  exercise. The 2 months waiting period is designed to some extent to overcome a problem which would be obvious where people could just hop in and out of funds like crickets. But no person suffering chronic illness will ever be discriminated against again and people can take comfort from that. Honourable members may give that assurance to all those people they represent in their electorates, that under this legislation anybody who suffers from a chronic disability or illness need never feel afraid that - 
Yes, positive. Nobody need be afraid of not being covered under this legislation. 
There is provision in the Bill that ensure-, that the Minister can give a direction  to  a registered organisation with respect to any matter-, listed. There is no doubt that there is provision which will require funds to provide statistical information and also other information  to  the Director-General of Health. He will be the central point and he will be able to call upon the Health Insurance Commission to provide statistical information. We are still very concerned about the question of privacy, as was the former Government. It introduced a Bill which has  now  been referred to the Law Reform Commission. As soon as the Law Reform Commission has reported on it we hope to introduce legislation thai not only will protect the individual's privacy in respect of the HIC but also in respect of the insurance funds. Perhaps it will not be as easy  to  collect information if there is a range of medical funds. One of the great features of Medibank. according to a lot of medical authorities and research workers is that there is a complete range of statistics coming in, being collected and collated that is available for research workers and others and it was an efficient way to collect the information. Although the new system may be a little more cumbersome we hope that we still will be able to get a general picture of health standards in Australia to ensure that we are spending the health dollar in the most effective way for the health care of Australians. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 34. 
After Pan VI of the Principal Act the following Part is inserted:  'PART VIa-CONDUCT AND SUPERVISION OF THE AFFAIRS OF REGISTERED ORGANIZATIONS '82v. (1) Where an inspector empowered to investigate the whole or a part of the affairs of a registered organization believes on reasonable grounds that it is necessary for the purposes of his investigation to enter land or premises occupied by the organization, he may, at all reasonable times, enter the land or premises and may- 
a ) examine records on the land or premises that relate to the affairs of the organization or that he believes, on reasonable grounds, relate to those affairs; 
take possession of any of those records for such period as he thinks necessary for the purposes of the investigation; and 
make copies of, or take extracts from, any of those records. '(2) An inspector is not entitled to refuse to permit a person to inspect records referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) that are in the possession of the inspector under that sub-section if the person would be entitled to inspect those records if the inspector had not taken possession of them. '(3) A person shall not obstruct or hinder an inspector in the exercise of his powers under this section. 
Penalty: $ 1 ,000 or imprisonment for 3 months. 

Omit proposed section 82v, substitute the following section: ' 82 v. ( 1 ) An inspector may, with the consent of the occupier of any premises, enter the premises for the purpose of exercising the functions of an inspector under this section in relation to the organization concerned. '(2)Where- 
a) an occupier of premises has refused or failed to grant upon request consent to the entry, at a reasonable time, on the premises of an inspector; and 
an inspector has reason to believe that there are on the premises records relating to the affairs of the organization concerned. the inspector referred to in paragraph (b) may, within 1 month after the request for consent was made, make application to a Magistrate for a warrant authorizing him to enter the premises for the purpose of exercising the functions of an inspector under this section in relation to the organization concerned. '( 3) If, on an application under sub-section (2), the Magistrate is satisfied by information on oath- 
that there is reasonable ground for believing that there are on the premises to which the application relates any records relating to the affairs of the organization concerned; and 
that the issue of a warrant is reasonably required for the purposes of this Act, the Magistrate may grant a warrant, which may be in accordance with the prescribed form, authorizing the inspector, with such assistance as he thinks necessary, to enter the premises during such hours of the day or night as the warrant specifies or, if the warrant so specifies, at any time, if necessary by force, for the purpose of exercising the functions of an inspector under this section in relation to the organization concerned. '(4) Where an inspector has entered any premises in pursuance of sub-section ( 1 ) or in pursuance of a warrant granted under sub-section (3), he may exercise the functions of an inspector under this section in relation to the organization concerned. '(5) A person shall not, without reasonable excuse, obstruct or hinder an inspector acting in pursuance of a warrant under sub-section (3) or in pursuance of sub-section (4). 
Penalty: $ 1 ,000 or imprisonment for 3 months. '(6) The functions of an inspector under this section in relation to the organization concerned are to search for, inspect, take extracts from, or make copies of, any records that relate, or that he believes, on reasonable grounds, to relate, to the affairs of that organization. '(7) In this section- "inspector", in relation to a registered organization, means an inspector empowered to investigate the whole or a part of the affairs of that organization, and "the organization concerned", in relation to that inspector, means that organization; "occupier", in relation to premises, includes the person in charge of the premises. ' 
This amendment inserts a new proposed section to substitute for the original proposed new section 82v. It is to permit an inspector appointed by the Minister under proposed section 82  R  to enter premises for the purposes of his investigations. The reason for the amendment is to provide protection to an occupier of premises which an inspector wishes to enter. It provides that an inspector may enter the premises with the consent of the occupier of the premises. Where the occupier does not consent, an inspector is required to obtain from a magistrate a warrant to authorise his entry to the premises. I believe that it is a proper provision which will safeguard the civil rights of occupiers of premises. The way in which the Bill was worded, I felt, gave the Minister too much authoritarian power. The Government certainly took that view. The same provision applies, I think, in the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill. It is a provision which protects the rights of people to that extent. An inspector can be appointed by a Minister. It is his job to go into premises, to go through all the records, to do what he wants to do and then to report back to the Minister. As a point of principle, we feel it is necessary in the legislation. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 35 to 41-by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 42. 
Where the Minister, after consideration of a report made to him under sub-section (5) in relation to a registered organization, is satisfied that- 
the organization does not intend, or will not be able, to conduct any fund on or after I October 1976; or 
the organization does not intend, or will not be able, to conduct any fund in a particular State or Territory in respect of which the organization is registered, the Minister shall cancel the registration of that organization or cancel the registration of that organization in so far as it relates to that State or Territory, as the case may be, and that cancellation shall take effect on I October 1976. 
I move: 
Insert after sub-clause (6) the following sub-clause: '(6a) Where the Minister is satisfied that a registered organization has failed to comply with sub-section (1) or with a notice served, under sub-section (3), on the public officer of the organization, the Minister may cancel the registration of that organization and that cancellation shall take effect on I October 1976.'. 
I move this amendment in view of the changed obligations that registered medical and hospital benefit organisations will be required to meet from 1 October 1 976. Clause 42 provides that the Minister may review the registration of all organisations presently registered under the Act. Where the Minister is not satisfied that the organisation will be able to meet the requirements, he is empowered to cancel the registration of that organisation. An organisation which has had its registration cancelled will be able to apply for registration at any time, from 1 October, when it claims it will be able to meet the requirements for registration. In accordance with clause 42, an organisation can avoid review by the Minister by not complying with the requirements in sub-clause (1) of clause 42 that the organisation give a notification or with a notice served under sub-clause (3) of that clause. The purpose of the amendment is to provide a power of sanction in these situations to ensure that organisations which are currently registered comply with the provisions of clause 42. In other words, the amendment is there to close a loophole that occurred as a result of earlier drafting. 
I refer to clause 3, which reads in part: 
After Part II of the Health Insurance Commission Act 1 973 the following Part is inserted: 'Part IIa- MEDIBANK. CONTRIBUTORS '(3) The date of effect of an approval of an application under this section is- 
where the application is made on or before 30 November 1976-1 October 1976 or such later date as was requested by the applicant; or 
in any other case-the date requested by the applicant, being a date not earlier than the date on which the application was made. '(4) A person to whom an approval under sub-section (2 ) relates becomes, or shall be deemed to have become, a Medibank contributor on the date of effect of that approval. '(5) Where a person becomes a dependant of a Medibank contributor, the Medibank contributor may make application, in accordance with the approved form, to the Commission for that dependant to become a Medibank contributor. '(6) The regulations may prescribe rates of contribution under this section in respect of classes of Medibank contributors. 
I move: 
Omit proposed sub-section (3), substitute the following sub-sections: '(3) The date of effect of an approval of an application under this section is- 
where the application is made on or before 30 November 1976-1 October 1976 or such later date as is requested by the applicant; 
where the application is made under sub-section (1) after 30 November 1976- the date requested by the applicant, being a date not earlier than the date on which the application was made; 
where the application is made under sub-section (5) after 30 November 1976 and the applicant has no dependants who are Medibank contributors- the date on which the application is made or such later date as is requested by the applicant; or (d j where the application is made under sub-section (5) after 30 November 1976 and the applicant has a dependant who is a Medibank contributor- the date on which the person specified in the application became a dependant of the applicant. '(3a) The period in respect of which an amount of contribution is paid under sub-section (2) in respect of an application shall be deemed to commence, or to have commenced, on the date of effect of the approval of the application. ' 
Omit proposed sub-section (4), substitute the following sub-section: '(4) a person to whom an approval under sub-section (2) relates becomes, or shall be deemed to have become, a Medibank contributor on- 
where- 
the application to which the approval relates is made on or before 30 November 1976; or 
the application to which the approval relates is made under sub-section (5) after 30 November 1976 and the applicant has, by reason of an earlier application (whether made under subsection ( I ) or sub-section (5)), a dependant who is a Medibank contributor, the date of effect of the approval; or 
b) in any other case- the date 2 months after the date of effect of the approval. ' 
In proposed sub-section (6), omit 'Medibank contributors', substitute 'persons'. 
The effect of these amendments is as follows: The existing provisions in the Bill do not clearly indicate the dates of effect of approvals of applications under proposed subsections ( 1 ) and (5) of proposed section 8a. The purpose of the amendments is to specify clearly the dates of effect of those approvals. The amendments also provide for a person who contributes to the Health Insurance Commission in respect of himself and a dependant or dependants, to have an application for a further dependant to be a Medibank contributor approved with retrospective effect to the date the person became a dependant. The Government recognises that there are other circumstances in which it would be desirable for the Commission to be able to approve applications with effect from dates earlier than those upon which applications are lodged. 
I should point out that no person will be disadvantaged before 1 December by the absence of provisions enabling retrospective approvals of applications. The overall question of retrospective approvals is a very complex one and it will be the subject of further detailed examination. If, following the examination by a working party, further legislation is necessary there is sufficient time before any person becomes disadvantaged to enable its introduction by 1 October. New subsection (3a) specifies the commencement period in respect of which contributions are to relate. The amendments really correct a drafting problem in the former Bill. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Advice was received on 7 July 197S, that an outbreak of foot and mouth disease had occurred in Luzon Province. 
The Australian Embassy, Manila. 
My Department has been aware of the presence of foot and mouth disease in the Philippines since 1971, when the first of a number of sporadic outbreaks of the disease occurred. The Department has regarded the disease as endemic to that country since 1971. Quarantine controls have therefore been in force since that time to prevent the introduction of the disease into Australia from the Philippines. 
Advice was sought from Manila as to the extent of the resurgence of the disease in the light of its endemic status. An appreciation of the situation was received on 9 July, 1975. On 10 July, 1975 all Commonwealth Directors of Health, the Chief Quarantine Officer (Animals) in each State and the then Departments of Labor and Immigration and Police and Customs were advised of the deteriorating position in Luzon. The then Minister for Health issued a press statement on the matter on 14 July, 1975. 
Foot and mouth disease precautions have been adopted with all air and sea passengers from the Philippines for a number of years as they are with travellers from all countries where a risk of foot and mouth disease exists. The instruction issued by my Department on 10 July, 1975 (and clarified in a further instruction dated 1 1 July, 1975) was in the nature of a reminder that precautions should not be relaxed. Precautions are still operative and will remain so. 
Measures taken to screen mail and freight arriving in Australia from the Philippines have been in operation for some years in the same manner as they are implemented for all countries in which foot and mouth disease is endemic. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The report was tabled in the Senate on 1 1 June, 1975 and, because of the limited number of copies available, a copy was placed in the Parliamentary Library  (Hansard  Senate, 11 June 1975, pages 2493, 2494). The House of Representatives had adjourned on 4 June 1975. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The estimated number of age, invalid and widow pensioners and recipients of wife's pension and supporting mother's benefit in the Federal electoral division of Batman at 23 March 1976 was 15 400. 
The estimated number of age pensioners in the electoral division was 1 1 900 and the estimated number of invalid pensioners was 1300. These figures exclude recipients of wife's pension. 
Estimates of deserted wives receiving widows' pensions are not available but the estimated total number of widow pensioners in the electorate was 1 350 at 23 March 1 976. 
Population by electoral divisions is not available for the intercensal years. However, the following table shows the proportion of pensioners in the electoral division of Batman and in the State of Victoria for the Census Year 1 97 1 . 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Hospitals Development Program, Commonwealth funds are used to supplement State expenditure on total States programs, not on individual projects. Information is therefore not available in the form sought by the honourable member. 
I would mention, however, that in the first year of the Hospitals Development Program, 1974-75, expenditure on some projects included the following specific Commonwealth grants: 
I give an assurance that we will be endeavouring in every way to assist State Governments and State courts to facilitate adoption procedures. More than that we cannot do because it is a matter for State authorities to determine whether the adoptions can be finalised. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act 1971-1974 I present the annual report of the Commissioner for Employees ' Compensation for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Approximately $1,790,000 has been committed; most of this has been spent. 
Approximately 39 000 Calaids will be produced during 1975-76. 
At this time, the Government has no plans to expand the free hearing aid scheme. 
Not applicable. 
5 ) It is estimated that 60 per cent of the equipment will be used in the planned decentralised laboratories. The remainder will be issued as new or replacement equipment to existing laboratories. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In 1973, over 19 000 persons in Australia died due to cancer. This represents 17.5 per cent of all deaths in that year. The number and proportion of deaths due to cancer has risen in Australia over the past 10 years, as shown in the Table below- 
Yes, I am aware of the matter that has been drawn to my attention by the honourable member for Barker. I obtained a reply from the Minister for Social Security which I think is important to him and to those concerned. The Minister for Social Security remains the legal guardian of the children concerned in the cases in South Australia and will remain so until such time as they are legally adopted in accordance with State law, marry, leave the country or reach the age of 18 years. In practice the power and responsibilities of that guardianship have been delegated to the Director-General, the Department of Community Welfare in South Australia, and to the principal officers of the relevant child welfare authorities in other States and Territories. Hence the welfare and status of these children will continue to be protected. The Minister, in association with child welfare authorities, is concerned to do whatever is possible within her powers to facilitate the adoption of the many children such as these and in fact already has signed some 90 orders which have the effect, by exempting the children from the provisions of the Immigration (Guardianship of Children) Act, and hence the guardianship of the Minister, of permitting the due legal processes in the States or Territories to determine whether adoption applications may be approved. 
-No, it is rather important. This is a very important matter with a great degree of sensitivity attached to it. I seek your protection,  Mr Speaker,  to allow me to continue. 
The answer to honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pre-existing illnesses do not preclude payments of benefits under Medibank. Therefore, there is no reference to those conditions under the Medibank scheme. 
and (3) See (1). 
My Department has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
-I am delighted that the honourable member for Macquarie has brought this matter to the attention of the House. I had discussions last week with the Director of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to ascertain why there was a disparity in distribution among the various States in relation to their populations. I was informed by the Director that the Laboratories had on this occasion adopted the past practice of allocating serum to the States according to the orders that had been registered with chemists in the various States. It appears that in some States individuals are lodging orders for the vaccine at more than one chemist and, of course, this has caused a greater demand than normal in the circumstances. I do not blame the public for being somewhat panicked because of the confusion that exists in the minds of a lot of people between the 2 strains of influenza currently in the news. The first is A Swine influenza, a number of cases of which were identified at New Jersey in the United States of America some months ago. There was considerable media coverage of this incident and a considerable amount of publicity was given to it. Since then no further cases have been identified. Medical authorities in Australia have informed me that there is no possibility of A Swine influenza reaching Australia during this winter. 
The A Victoria influenza strain is not nearly as virulent or dangerous to people. I ask people in Australia not to be panicked by the confusion that has been created about the 2 strains of influenza. I have asked CSL to examine ways and means of trying in future to arrive at a more equitable distribution of vaccines. I also say, once again, that CSL has done a tremendous job. 
It has worked 7 days a week since it began manufacture, and by the end of June it will have produced 2 million doses of the vaccine. It is to be commended for what it has done. I think Australia was the first country in the world to produce the vaccine. The honourable member for Macquarie may rest assured that we are doing what we can to see that there is an equitable distribution of the vaccine to all parts of Australia. 
At the conference which I had yesterday with the federal body of the Australian Medical Association I found that the Assembly was agreeable to entering into discussions with me and my Department to establish guidelines for a peer review of good medical practice and procedure in Australia. I am not aware of the sections of the Act to which the honourable member has referred. I think they would apply principally to the manner in which doctors charge for their services. The peer review committee needs to be understood in the context in which it is talked about. I notice that the honourable member for Maribyrnong nods in agreement. He understands what a peer review is. Under the Health Insurance Act any doctor who flagrantly abuses the system can be brought to trial. A number of inquiries are being conducted at the present time and in the very near future prosecutions will be launched against a small number of doctors as a consequence of investigations that have taken place which indicate the possibility of abuse under the Health Insurance Act. I am sure that the peer review will have a much longer-term benefit for standards of health care in Australia. 
It cannot be done quickly. Those who understand the problem know that it cannot be done quickly. The fact is that the AMA is agreeing to enter into discussions on this matter and is prepared to sit down and look at the guidelines to ensure that the standards of professional medical practice in Australia reach a much higher level than they have probably reached in the past. We are hopeful that the medical profession will achieve this within a 3 -year period to obviate any necessity to introduce legislation laying down guidelines for medical practice in Australia. 
The other matter of the sheer flagrant abuse of the charging of patients or the abuse of Medibank falls into a different category. There is provision under the Health Insurance Act to take action against doctors where sufficient evidence indicates that there should be a prosecution. 
My Department has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) It is not the normal practice to make the texts of such documents available. However, in essence, the minute outlined to  Mr Toomer  that the Director-General of Health had instructed the Director to return  Mr Toomer  to his full duties as Senior Quarantine Inspector as from 19 February 1 974 subject to a number of conditions concerning: method of communication with other staff issue of technical instructions control of subordinate officers movements from the Perth Office overtime procedure regarding submissions, and need to carry out instructions. (2)I understand the letter to  Mr Toomer,  dated 8 March 1974, stated it was  Dr Everingham  's understanding that  Mr Toomer  had been restored to full duty on 19 February 1974. 
It was also understood by the Director-General of Health that this was the case. 
See (1) above. However, in general, this minute outlined that the Director-General had directed that  Mr Toomer  be informed that the Director-General's instructions were: as  Mr Toomer's  appeal had been disallowed, that incident had now been closed 

 Mr Toomer should therefore be returned to the full duties of his position that  Mr Toomer  be counselled on his past shortcomings and have fully explained what was expected of him in the future including method of communication of orders or authorisations on technical quarantine matters, functional control for administrative and non-technical matters and penalties under the Public Service Act for not carrying out legitimate orders. 
The minute also included a reiteration of the Director's requirements, which were the remaining aspects covered in ( 1 ) above. 
Director of Health, Western Australia, was directed by the Director-General of Health to make clear to  Mr Toomer  those instructions which emanated from the DirectorGeneral. 
See ( 1 ) above. However, this minute merely cancelled the minute outlined in (3 ) above and returned  Mr Toomer  to the full duties of his designated position without qualification. 
No. However,  Mr Gee,  speaking as First Assistant Director-General, Quarantine Division, Department of Health and not as a member of the Committee, did repeat to the Director of Health, Western Australia, the DirectorGeneral's instructions that  Mr Toomer  was to be restored immediately to full duty if this had not already been done. 

 Dr Mathieson did make such a statement before the Committee. I am informed, however, that the Committee's activities were not dependent on the withdrawal of the minute referred to. 
See (6) and (7) above. 
The  answer to  the  honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Medibank hospital agreements the net operating costs of recognised hospitals are shared between the Commonwealth and the States. As a consequence, there is an incentive on the States to contain costs. In view of this situation the Commonwealth does not see a particular need for detailed information on drug and dispensing costs in recognised hospitals which, when viewed against total expenditure under the hospital agreements, are relatively minor components. 
The Medibank Review Committee was primarily concerned with Medibank in a broad policy context. As such, the absence of detailed data on drug costs in recognised hospitals did not in any way handicap the Committee s work. 
Information has recently come to hand from State hospital authorities which reveals that, three StatesQueensland, Western Australia and Tasmania-have experienced no significant change in the percentage of National 
Health Scheme drugs dispensed in respect of outpatient departments of recognised hospitals since Medibank commenced. Two States-New South Wales and South Australia report that the information is not available. The remaining State- Victoria- reports that no detailed statistics are available on changes in the number of hospital prescriptions written in the outpatient department of every Victorian hospital since the introduction of Medibank. Preliminary information from some Victorian hospitals indicates that a moderate increase has taken place in these institutions, but the extent is variable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) South Australia 
Community Health Centres- Committees of Management: 
Ingle Farm 
St Agnes 
Clovelly Park 
Angle Park 
Christies Beach 
Hindmarsh 
Federal-State Co-ordinating Committee for Nursing Home Accommodation in S.A. Eastern Regional Geriatric Rehabilitation Advisory Committee Southern Regional Geriatric Rehabilitation Advisory Committee State-Federal Committee on Community Health Planning Federal-State Mosquito Control Committee (Torrens Island) 
Dr A. C. Green. Director of Health (or his nominee) 
Dr A. C. Green (or his nominee) 
Dr A. C. Green (or his nominee) Dr A. C. Green (or his nominee) Dr A. C. Green (or his nominee) Dr A. C.Green or his nominee) 
My  Department has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
None. 
) Not applicable; see (4). 
The fumigation process is lengthy, expensive and not without risk. Fumigation is therefore only performed at certain ports and when rat infestation is heavy enough to warrant it. Fremantle is the only port in Western Australia designated by the World Health Organisation to issue deratting certificates. Ships arriving at North West Pons would only be fumigated if the vessel proceeded on to Fremantle or a port in another State where fumigation is carried out, and the infestation was heavy enough to warrant the procedure. For other ships arriving at North West Ports, trapping and poison baiting would be undertaken. 
Yes. The Shire has been informed that vessels which call at Port Hedland from overseas are not prone to rodent infestation because they are mainly bulk iron ore or salt carriers, the cargoes of which are not attractive to rodents. Some of these vessels may have minor infestations of rats which can be efficiently dealt with by simpler, safer and cheaper methods of eradication such as trapping, and baiting infected areas with anticoagulant and other poisons. Use of these methods is normal international practice and they are recognised by WHO as effective. 
My Department has supplied me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) As per duty statement: 
Inspectorial Functions applicable to General, Plant and Animal Quarantine Duties. 
Detailed inspection of vessels berthed at Port Hedland to ascertain the degree of rodent and vermin infestation, report and supervise plant matters (i.e. insect infestation and grain spillage on cargo). 
Maintain shipping, aircraft records, daily dairy, and general office duties. 
Scrutinise overseas cargo and parcels relevant to plant and animal Quarantine regulations. 
Disinfect, fumigate or destroy goods in accordance with Quarantine requirements. 
As far as practicable, attend arrival of incoming overseas aircraft at airports north of Carnarvon, spray and seize prohibited foodstuffs and refuse. Supervise destruction thereof. 
Liaise with and train part-time Quarantine Assistants employed at outports north of Carnarvon. 
Perform other duties as directed. 
Ports covered by Quarantine Inspector, North West Ports and overseas vessels cleared on the past two years arc as follows: 
My Department has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1)Yes. 
The vessel was boarded on arrival at Dampier by the Quarantine Medical Officer and the Quarantine Assistant visited the vessel to ensure that rat guards were in place and that galley refuse was stored under approved conditions. 
On 20 March, when the vessel was fully loaded, it was reported that rats had been seen in the region of the galley. The Master was instructed to trap and to lay poison and the vessel was permitted to sail that day for overseas. 

 Dr L. Fenwick, whose qualifications are M.B.. B.S. (Syd) was appointed as part-time Quarantine Medical Officer on 10 November 1966. Police Sergeant Keely, who is the part-time Quarantine Assistant, was appointed as such 6 June 1975. Quarantine Assistants do not require formal qualifications to perform the Quarantine duties required of them. These duties are performed in accordance with standard procedures laid down in Departmental instructions. 
Current procedures provide that all vessels entering Dampier undergo quarantine medical inspection on arrival by the Quarantine Medical Officer and daily inspection during their stay in port by a Quarantine Assistant. The Quarantine Assistant ensures that rat guards are in place and that galley refuse is stored under approved conditions. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) Research in Australia into cancer, along with research into other diseases and medical conditions, as undertaken by universities having medical schools, most teaching hospitals and the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research. I understand that funds for this research in Australia are sought by those organisations from a multiplicity of diverse sources and that much the same arrangements obtain in the United States of America and Great Britain. I am unable to say what proportion of the funds that are secured by the organisations, Australian or otherwise, are directed specifically to research into cancer and consequently I cannot provide the per capita expenditure figures sought. 
However, I can say that in supporting medical research with funds provided through the National Health and Medical Research Council, the Government made available in 1 97 5 $ 1 , 1 10,000 specifically for cancer research. Of this sum, the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute received a block grant of $800,000 and thirty separate projects received $310,000. In 1976, $948,000 has been committed for the Institute and $380,000 for twenty-seven separate projects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Dr J. A. Mc Gree;  Mr A.  Armstrong;  Dr D.  N. Everingham. 

 Dr McGree was appointed a Quarantine Officer by the Governor-General in Council in 1 938. 

 Mr Armstrong was appointed a temporary Quarantine Officer by the Director-General of Health as Direct of Quarantine in November 1975. 

 Dr Everingham, who acted as locum tenens for  Dr McGree  in private practice for two weeks from 22 March, was appointed a temporary Quarantine Officer by the First Assistant Director-General, Quarantine Division, Canberra in March 1976. 
See(2)above 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The provision of Hospital Radiotherapy Services is primarily a matter for the States. 
Inquiries made of State Health Authorities have not indicated any significant number of resignations of Radiotherapists following the introduction of Medibank. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Close consultation between the Commonwealth and the States on the control of pest eradication has been promoted over a long period by the Australian Agricultural Council. These consultations are on a continuing basis. 
There is a substantially uniform approach over virtually the whole field of pesticide control, including such matters as the registration of pesticides, direction for pesticides usage, labelling, etc. 
Legislative measures are the responsibility of the individual States and Territories, under the legislation in the particular State or Territory. 
The work performed under the auspices of the Australian Agricultural Council has been integrated with the activities of the National Health and Medical Research Council. This has brought about a close co-ordination of approach between the States and the Commonwealth on these matters. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council at its sixty-sixth session in May 1968 approved Draft Uniform Pesticide Regulations are recommended that they be distributed to States and Commonwealth Territories as a guide for the statutory control of the hazards from the commercial use of pesticides. The question of the control of pest eradicators was raised in committees of the Council in 1970 and again in 1972 and it was agreed that the NH &amp; MRC Draft Regulations of 1968 provided a basis of control. I have arranged for the matter to be raised at the relevant committee of the NH &amp; MRC with a view to bringing about more uniform adoption of the draft regulations, than has been so far achieved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No evidence is available to the Department of Health or the Health Insurance Commission to indicate that some medical practitioners are adopting that practice referred to in the question. 
I am advised that doctors do have the right to decide whether they will see a patient or not, just as patients have the right to choose their doctor. However, as mentioned, there is no evidence available to me that any such action is on the basis of whether individuals contribute to private medical insurance schemes. 
On the information available there is no need for discussions with the medical profession on the tines proposed by the honourable member. 
Hyperactivity in Children (Question No. 491) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, I am aware of recent ABC Television and Radio programs concerning the theories of  Dr Benjamin  Feingold on the association between food additives and hyperactivity in children. 
I would stress that the relationship postulated by  Dr Feingold  is at present unconfirmed. Research is underway in Australia into this theory (see (5)). 
2 ) Yes. Some research is being carried out in this country; however, the bulk of the work being done on these substances is carried out overseas. 
Results of all these research studies, both in this country and overseas, are carefully examined by the appropriate committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH &amp; MRC). As a result of this consideration, recommendations are made by Council as to which additives may be approved for use in foods. 
Rather than use a symbol to distinguish foods which are free from particular substances, it is considered more useful and informative to require all added substances to be listed on the label. 
The NH &amp; MRC is currently considering the whole range of matters to be included on food labels. In the listing of added substances, the proposals include a requirement that foods containing added colouring and flavouring would be labelled 'colouring added' or 'flavouring added'. (Current  State  legislation already requires food to which a preservative has been added to be labelled accordingly). 
The list of approved food additives in Australia is very short compared with those of most western countries. It contains approximately 230 approved food additives. In the United States of America, for example, the list of approved additives contains approximately ten times the number permitted in Australia. 
All the additives approved for use in Australia have been individually evaluated by the appropriate committee of the NH &amp; MRC, taking into consideration all the data available, both here and overseas. 
Even after approval, these additives are continually reviewed by this committee. 
At its 81st Session in October 1975, the National Health and Medical Research Council approved a research grant to a team of two psychiatrists and a doctor specialising in nutrition to conduct research into the possible relationship between artificial colourings and flavourings in food and hyperactive behaviour in children. 
As mentioned in (3) above, the whole matter of labelling of foodstuffs is currently under consideration. The final recommendations should be available shortly. 
The power to require food to be labelled rests with the States and Territories under their own individual legislation. Recommendations made by the NH &amp; MRC are generally adopted into such legislation. 
In this regard, a joint Commonwealth/State Working Party is currently considering the development of model food legislation for uniform application throughout Australia. 
Weed Killer 245T (Question No. 499) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. This substance is available for purchase by the general public in Australia. 
Yes. 
There were reports of deformities in the new born in that country attributed to its use but these reports, to my knowledge, have never been satisfactorily substantiated. 
A great deal of research has been carried out on this weedicide and this has been noted by the Pesticides and Agricultural Chemicals Sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council; this Sub-committee is keeping the matter under review. 
At its Eightieth Session in April 1975 the National Health and Medical Research Council included the following statement and recommendation in its Report of that Session: 'Council considered the most recent reports of teratogenesis following the administration of large oral doses of 2,4,5-T and considered that the available evidence indicated that the impurity tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD) was the agent implicated in congenital abnormalities. Council noted that recent information had shown that 2,4,5-T available in Australia contained less than 0.1 ppm of TCDD at which level no teratogenic activity has been reported. Council considered that recommended safety precautions followed in the handling of pesticides should provide adequate protection to all persons exposed to 2,4,5-T in its manufacture and use. 
Council recommend that 2,4,5-T containing more than 0.1 ppm of TCDD should not be permitted for use as a herbicide in Australia and that there should be a maximum residue limit of 0.02 ppm of 2,4,5-T permitted in water.' 
As part of the process of registration for sale and use of 2,4,5-T action is taken in the States to ensure that all products available to the public contain no more than 0. 1 ppm of TCDD. 
My Department has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Treasurer to Question No. S26 published in  Hansard,  26 May 1976. 
My Department has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Provision of an incinerator at Learmonth proposed for 1976-77 has been deferred as a measure of economic restraint. 
The arrangements outlined in my answer to Question No. 2562 will continue to apply until an incinerator is provided and no quarantine risk is involved. 
Domiciliary Nursing Care Benefit (Question No. 614)  .  Mr Macphee  asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that one of the criteria for the receipt of the Domiciliary Nursing Care Benefit is that the patient must be visited by a Royal District Nurse. 
Is there a shortage of such nurses and did a mass meeting of such nurses recently complain about the excessive workload which they bear. 
Has the Minister considered supplementing this service by making the Domiciliary Nursing Care Benefit payable to relatives who are appropriately qualified to care for aged, sick or invalid persons and who do, or are prepared to, devote themselves full time to caring for their elderly relatives. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) In order to qualify for the payment of the domiciliary nursing care benefit, a patient must have a continuing need for nursing care and must receive that care in the home by, or under the supervision of a registered nurse. In most instances, the attending nurse would be a member of the District Nursing Service or of an equivalent Service. However, it is not essential that the attending nurse be a member of a nursing service to be eligible to fulfil the nursing care requirement. Under the provisions of the National Health Act, any qualified nurse who is currently registered under a law of a State or Territory may provide nursing care to an approved patient. 
I am not aware of any mass meeting of domiciliary nurses to complain about the excessive workload which they bear. However, I would point out the provision of nurses within the States is primarily the responsibility of each State Government. The Commonwealth assists, financially, nonprofit nursing organisations by way of subsidies for their nursing staff under the provisions of the Home Nursing Subsidy Act. 
Where the beneficiary or a member of the family is a registered nurse and the person provides some skilled nursing care to the patient, it is not necessary to engage the services of another person to provide skilled nursing care to the patient 
The requirement for visits by a registered nurse has been partly relaxed in relation to patients living in remote rural areas where it is not possible, because of the area's remoteness, to arrange for a nurse to visit regularly. However, in these remote areas, it is necessary for the nurse to visit the patient occasionally to ensure that the level of care being provided is adequate to meet the patient's needs. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission entitled  Review of the Community Health Program,  together with a summary of that report. 
I require the debate to be extended. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  expressed his concern about the need for additional development at the Dandenong Hospital. I would like him to note that the Government is concerned to ensure that there are adequate hospital development programs throughout Australia. Indeed, that is evidenced by the fact that the Government is maintaining its pledge to continue the hospital development program, and the sum of $ 108m will be made available to the States in the next financial year. The Commonwealth Government recognises that the detailed priorities for the various need areas must be a matter for primary State decision. In this case, of course, the Government of Victoria is concerned. The Dandenong Hospital has received significant assistance under the hospitals development program, and the combined expenditure of the Commonwealth Government and the Victorian Government on the development of that hospital is expected to total $ 1.8m by the end of this financial year. Considerable sums are expected to be spent in the following 2 years to complete the south block and other extensions. The matter of the need for the north block and its planning is still under consideration primarily in Victoria but also by the Commowealth Government. I assure the honourable member for Holt that the needs of Dandenong, as indeed the needs of other outer metropolitan areas, for additional hospital beds are foremost in my mind, as are the applications that have come from all the States. I appreciate the honourable member's concern in this matter and I undertake to have more detailed information for him as soon as possible on the north block expansion. I have sought a conference at the earliest opportunity between the officers of my Department and the officers of the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission to discuss the matter that the honourable member has quite rightly raised. I thank him very much indeed for his concern and for bringing this matter to my attention. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Bill and the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I want it to be made perfectly clear that I and other Ministers sought the advice of a number of members of the Parliament. The honourable member for Macarthur was one whose advice was sought, because of his experience in the area of public relations. I can assure the honourable member for Bonython that the pamphlet itself has done a great deal to erase some of the confusion that may have existed in the minds of a number of people. When the new Medibank agreements come into force on 1 October people will be given the opportunity to insure with private insurance funds if they so wish. It is anticipated that there will be, generally, 2 groups of people who will want to insure in this way. Firstly, there will be those who want to stay in Medibank but want intermediate ward accommodation in a private or public hospital with a doctor of their own choice. Such people will be able to take out private insurance cover for themselves and their families for what we have estimated to be $135  per annum,  or approximately $68  per annum  in the case of a single person. Those amounts will be over and above the Medibank levy which they will have to pay- 
Secondly, we anticipate that people in the highest income groups- that is, those receiving $12,000 a year or more, and that would include the honourable member who asked the question -will have 2 options. They will be able to buy a Medibank package at $300 to cover them and their families rather than pay the levy, or they will be able to take out with a private fund private insurance to cover themselves and their families against medical costs. Private fund insurance will be required only by those people who want to secure for themselves what they consider to be more comfortable accommodation in public or private hospitals, and to choose their own doctor. It will be a matter for the people themselves to take that decision. We anticipate that within the next two or three weeks the actuaries of the private funds will be able to estimate the premiums that people will be required to pay for coverage for intermediate ward accommodation with a doctor of their own choice for a hospital only package or for medical and hospital cover. 
The whole arrangement will not come into operation until 1 October, so there is a lot of time available for the funds and for the people to be able to make an intelligent choice of the type of health cover that they want to adopt for themselves. There is a simple item that honourable members should remember, and that is that all those people on income levels similar to ours have 2 choices: We can either pay a Medibank premium to cover ourselves for standard ward accommodation and for 85 per cent of the scheduled fee or we can take out private insurance. That opportunity is also given to the lower income earners who want to take out 'hospital only' cover. In the very near future the funds will be announcing their premiums. We have made an estimate at this time. We expect the funds to be very close to it. 
In replying to the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  I think there are a number of matters that need to be drawn to the attention of the House. Firstly, the purpose of the States Grants (Hospital Operating Costs) Bill which is before the House is to authorise grants to the States to assist with the financing of the operating costs of public hospitals as an interim measure following the Government's discovery that the hospital agreements with the States are not valid. The honourable member for Oxley said that the Government has 'contrived' the situation. I think in fairness it needs to be understood that the blame for the situation in which the Government found itself must be laid right at the feet of the former Government which failed to draft legislation which was legally valid. It was not until last week that the present Government was advised that the legislation upon which the grants were being made available to the States was in fact not valid legislation. So we have inherited from the former Government not only a financial mess but also this illegal agreement. We are looking at the other agreements that have been drawn up to ensure that the funds that were being allocated to the 
States during the term of the former Government were in fact being allocated validly. 
The firm legal advice available to the Government is that the agreements negotiated by the previous Government are in a form which is not authorised by the Health Insurance Act. Under section 30 of the Act an agreement must be substantially in accordance with the heads of agreement in Schedule 2 of the Act The advice is that clause 4 of the agreement differs substantially from the third head of agreement of the Schedule, and that gave us cause for great concern. 
Clause 17 of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1976 sought to repeal Schedule 2 of the Health Insurance Act 1973-1975 and to replace it by a revised schedule which would have enabled the Government to vary the hospitals agreements by negotiation and agreement with each State. It also included a provision intended to maintain the agreements despite the repeal of the Schedule. The clause was drafted and the Bill was introduced before the invalidity of the hospitals agreements was discovered by the Government. So even if clause 17 of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill were passed it would not have had the effect of validating agreements that were invalid when made. This Bill, which was introduced into the House of Representatives last Friday by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  does not validate past payments to the States under the agreements. That is because the Government came to the view that it would be better to discuss these matters with the States to make sure that when validating legislation is introduced later in the year it is done in a way which cannot be challenged in a court of law. It is envisaged that legislation for the new arrangements will be introduced in the Budget session. 
I want to make it very clear, as the Prime Minister has made it clear to the State Premiers, that the Government will continue to meet 50 per cent of the approved net operating costs of recognised hospitals. On 1 1 June- that is, Friday of next week- I will be discussing with the State Ministers a new basis for a new, legal and binding Commonwealth-State agreement covering a number of matters, including the way in which the $16 a day bed subsidy is provided to the States; secondly, the manner of arriving at the net operating costs; and, thirdly, the need to increase charges for private and intermediate beds in public hospitals. These are estimated to recover $150m of taxpayers funds. Nobody can say that it is right and proper that the taxpayers and those who will be paying levies under the present scheme should be subsidising those people who choose to insure themselves for, say. more comfortable accommodation in public hospitals- either private or intermediate. Such people should not be subsidised by those who choose to remain with Medibank and who are happy to go into public ward accommodation. 
At least 2 States stated that they would not raise the bed charges for private and intermediate wards in the public hospitals to a more realistic level. Of course, that is one matter that we were negotiating and will continue to negotiate with the States. There is just no justification whatsoever for having bed charges in public hospitals for private and intermediate ward accommodation pitched at $20 and $30 a day when the cost of those beds to the taxpayer, to the community, is more in the order of $100 a day. So what we are endeavouring to do is to transfer the burden of that cost to those people who insure themselves for that sort of accommodation. I am quite positive that the State governments will see the sense in that. If they do not see the sense in it they will deny themselves and the taxpayers in their States something in the order of $75m. The increased charges are a cost against the fund with which a person privately insures. So there is no justification in arguing against a need to renegotiate that aspect of the agreements. 
In my second reading speech on the Health Insurance Amendment Bill which I delivered in the House on 20 May I said: 
The Government also proposes to enter into discussions with the States with a view to establishing a new basis on which the costs of operating hospitals will be shared. The present basis is open ended and does not provide, in the Government's view, adequate incentive for cost efficiency. 
It is not a cost efficiency just to the Government; it is a cost efficiency to the taxpayers. Let us put at rest the idea that there is any such thing as free hospital accommodation, that it is a free service. The community at large has to pay in one way or another for the provision of any service that the Government offers, that the Government gives. 
-Of course. Medibank will cost this financial year $ 1,400m; next financial year it will cost $l,800m to $2,000m. It is costing the people of Australia that amount 
In the longer term, because of the arrangements we entered into, the new prospects are that more constraint will be placed upon cost increases in health care than there has been in the past. The private doctors in this country will want to retain somewhere between 50 per cent and 60 per cent of the Australian people as private patients. If their fees rise faster than average weekly earnings and if they make it too costly for people to insure themselves- if premiums become too expensive- what they will serve to do will be to push people back into Medibank, in which case the hospitals will provide the services to the people, mostly with salaried doctors. 
No. From year to year - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I invite the Minister to address the chair and to ignore disorderly interjections. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The Government will from time to time be looking at the $300 and pitching it at a level that will achieve the balance that is necessary to get the result for which we are looking. 
I understand that some of the detailed matters of procedures that already exist in respect of the agreements with the States are not altogether favourable to them. We, of course, will be giving them an opportunity to introduce areas in which they have a concern, an interest, in the discussions that will be taking place during the winter recess. I want to make it perfectly clear that what we are doing in the modified Medibank proposal is directing the subsidies to the most disadvantaged sections of the community. Those at the higher income levels, the honourable member for Oxley being one of them, will pay closer to the cost of health insurance whether they insure with Medibank which offers a standard package or whether they insure with private funds. As I said earlier, this arrangement will place restraint on costs. The honourable member cannot argue, and nobody can argue, that there will not be a greater constraint upon costs in a situation where there is a degree of competitiveness between the private and public sectors. 
The new arrangements will come into force on 1 October. I want to say once again that Medibank will be retained and will be available to every Australian. Nobody will be compulsorily excluded, but people will be given the opportunity to insure privately if they so wish. So far as the cost is concerned, Medibank benefits will be available at no cost to pensioners who are dependent on their pensions. The benefits will be available at no cost to a single person with a taxable income of up to $2,604 a year; they will be available at no cost to families with a taxable income of up to $4,299 a year. People with incomes above this level will pay a levy of 2.5 per cent on taxable income. People with incomes above $12,000 a year will find it cheaper to get Medibank cover by buying a Medibank premium for about $300 a year to cover their family health costs. 
Medibank offers complete standard ward cover with 85 per cent of scheduled medical benefit payments. It provides the widest choices available to the Australian people. I repeat that the new arrangements direct the subsidy to the most needy section of the community. It calls upon people in the higher income group to make a greater contribution. Surely this is something that the Australian Labor Party would have thought about. The Labor Government introduced Medibank and was going to impose a straight levy right across the top. As I understand the position- and I think the honourable member for Oxley now denies it- the Labor Government intended to raise during the initial stages anyway 50 per cent of the actual cost of Medibank from that levy and the other 50 per cent from general revenue. 
The honourable member for Oxley had this grand scheme. Of course, as costs exploded within the Medibank system where there was no cost constraint whatsoever, clearly year by year the levy itself would have to be substantially increased. So it is no good the Labor Party trying to say that we are taxing the Australian people. They understand- even the honourable member for Oxley would understand- that there is no such thing as a free lunch. I said to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in the House one morning that there is no such thing as a free lunch. Even a breakfast at Tiffanys can cost one something, although it might be apparently free. I am sure that if the honourable member for Oxley had still been the Minister for Social Security or Treasurer he would have been seeking to impose a levy in one way or another to try to recover some costs to pay for health care in Australia. I think that what we have done has been to impose a levy in such a way that it directs the subsidy to the most disadvantaged sections of the community. Our scheme imposes additional costs on the people in higher income groups who can afford to pay more for their health care. Everybody surely must know that there is no such thing as free health care. 
I conclude by saying that we have retained the universal concept of Medibank. This is a most desirable concept. I give credit to the Australian Labor Party for overcoming some of the real deficiencies that existed in the former scheme. I pay the honourable member for Oxley some credit for devising a system that overcame a very great deficiency in the former scheme. Given time he might have come to the party with an ingenious scheme such as we offer the Australian people today, providing the Australian people with the widest possible choice, imposing a system that directs most of the subsidy to the disadvantaged and calling upon the Australian people at the higher income levels to pay a greater proportion of their health costs. 
I think it also needs to be understood- in spite of the new arrangement for Medibank and universal insurance which we understand next year will be of the order of $l,800m-that the levy will raise somewhere about $330m and that the private contribution will be about $440m. We nope to make administrative savings. We hope to recoup about $30m from the insurance companies that offer cover for third party and workers compensation insurance and to stop rip-offs in this area. The rest of the scheme, of course, will be subsidised by about $ 1,000m from general revenue. So there is a subsidy component in the scheme. 
I want to assure the honourable member for Oxley before he goes to his great rally in Brisbane tomorrow that we are retaining the basic element of Medibank; that is, universal insurance. There is going to be an optional levy. We have preferred this to a straight levy of the kind which the Labor Government wanted to impose. We do not want to see a situation where costs would be allowed to explode underneath such a levy. This Bill is designed to authorise grants to the States to assist in the financing of the operating costs of public hospitals as an interim measure following the Government's discovery that the hospitals agreements drawn up by the last Government with the States are not valid. It is our objective to ensure that these grants will continue to flow until 30 September so that nobody in the interim will be disadvantaged. In the meantime I look forward to discussing the matter with my counterpart State Ministers and I am sure that we will be able to report in the Budget session a far more practical and sensible agreement which is based upon proper legal terms in respect of the modified Medibank proposals and which will provide health security to the Australian people. 
My Department has supplied me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 10 July, 1975 all Commonwealth Directors of Health and the Chief Quarantine Officers (Animals) in each State were advised by telex from the Central Office of the Department, of the deteriorating foot and mouth position in Luzon. In Western Australia, Quarantine Inspectors were advised as follows: 
Note (a): The Quarantine Inspector (Southern Ports) was acting in the position of Quarantine Inspector (Fremantle) during the latter 's absence on leave. 
Yes. 
12 September 1975. 
Yes. 
Error in distribution. However, I am advised that immediately prior to his departure for Port Hedland the Quarantine Inspector (North West Ports) had received intensive training on quarantine precautionary measures to be taken for passengers and articles entering Australia from foot and mouth risk countries. This training was additional to previous knowledge and experience gained by the officer concerned at Fremantle and Geelong. As foot and mouth disease had been endemic in the Philippines for a number of years this country fell into the risk category. The application of quarantine precautionary measures was not dependent on advice of the most recent resurgence of the disease in the Philippines. 
The Chief Quarantine Officer (Animals) for Western Australia is responsible for the distribution of information on animal quarantine matters in that State. 
No. 
10 July, 1975. 
No. See 2(d) above. 
No. 
The Quarantine Inspector (North West Ports) was advised in a memorandum dated 12 September, 1975 by the Assistant Director (Medical), Western Australian Division. A copy of the Central Office telex of 10 July, 1975 was attached. The memorandum expressed regret that the Quarantine Inspector (North West Ports) had not been notified before due to an error in distribution. 
See (1) above. 
No. I am advised that notwithstanding the error referred to in 2 (c), the Quarantine Inspector (North West Ports) would have been operating throughout the period under standing instructions to apply precautionary quarantine measures in respect of all passengers and articles entering the area direct from foot and mouth disease risk countries such as the Philippines. I am given to understand that correct application of these measures, in conjunction with those undertaken routinely by customs officers on behalf of the Quarantine Service, would have eliminated the risks, if any, which otherwise one might reasonably expect to locate in a post entry check. In the circumstances the question of a post entry check did not arise. 
See (8) above. All quarantine personnel, in close liaison with customs officers where appropriate, were operating under standing instructions regarding precautionary quarantine measures in respect of all personnel, goods and mail entering Australia from all foot and mouth risk countries, including the Philippines, and continue to do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Medical inspections for overseas aircraft are carried out by Quarantine Medical Officers. Spraying and the disposal of galley refuse is the responsibility of Quarantine Assistants. 
Aircraft passengers are checked medically by Quarantine Medical Officers. Freight is screened by Customs officers who refer matters of quarantine to the Quarantine Medical Officer or to the Plant or Animal Quarantine Officer in the area or at Penh as appropriate. 
Medical inspections are carried out by Quarantine Medical Officers in the first instance. Ships are visited daily by Quarantine Assistants who ensure that rat guards are in place and that galley refuse is stored under approved conditions. 
d ) Quarantine Assistants. 
Quarantine Assistants. 
Freight is screened by Customs officers who refer matters of quarantine to the Quarantine Medical Officer or to the Plant or Animal Quarantine Officer in the area or at Penh as appropriate. 
Customs officers in liaison with Plant or Animal Quarantine personnel in the area or at Penh as appropriate. 
General Quarantine Officers are registered medical practitioners. Quarantine Assistants do not require formal Qualifications for the duties required of them. Experience in the position differs for each individual. However, duties are performed in accordance with standard procedures laid down in Departmental Instructions. Other personnel referred to in 1 (a) to 1 (g) are not officers or employees of the Commonwealth Department of Health. 
Yes. From detailed information provided by my Department I am satisfied that no quarantine threat exists. However, I am keeping the position under review in accordance with the Government's no-risk policy. 
My Department has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I understand the Director of Health, Western Australia, did request the assistance of the Commonwealth Police during October 1975 to ascertain whether  Mr W.  F. Toomer, Quarantine Inspector, was still at Port Hedland. 
The Director had an important letter for personal delivery to  Mr Toomer  concerning his request to the Public Service Board to a review of the Departmental recommendation for  Mr Toomer's  retirement on invalidity grounds. At that time Departmental mail addressed to  Mr Toomer  was apparently being returned to the Divisional office unopened.  Mr Toomer  was on sick leave. Therefore enquiries as to whether  Mr Toomer  was at Port Hedland were made so that arrangements for the delivery of the letter could be made. 
Attorney-General: Meeting with  Mr H.  W. Fancher  (Question No. 565) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the Treasurer's reply to question No. 526 as incorporated in  Hansard of  Wednesday, 26 May 1976. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is assumed that the Honourable Member's question refers to the means test on fringe benefits for pensioners. This means test has not been reviewed since 1969 but in 1973 the previous Government froze the limits of eligibility at their present level of $33 a week for a single pensioner and $57.50 a week for a married pensioner couple. 
This is a matter of Government policy which will be reviewed at the appropriate time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the first question is yes. The Government recognises the previous Government's commitment to preserve trie existing long service leave rights of persons who were recruited from the private funds to the Health Insurance Commission. The drafting of regulations to give effect to this undertaking is receiving attention and I expect that this matter will be brought to finality at an early date. 
For the information of honourable members I present Part 1 of the final report of the National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry together with a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to that report. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Examination of proposals for conclusion of an agreement has not yet been completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I ) (a) Financial assistance under the Australian Assistance Plan 
The entrepreneur to whom the Leader of the Opposition referred was only one of a number of stud breeders who chartered an aircraft through Dalgety Australia Ltd under the new arrangement that applies between Australia and New Zealand with respect to bringing cattle, sheep and pigs into Australia by air. This new regulation came into force in March. The chartered aircraft was making its third flight. It was diverted to Tahiti. 
-I am sure it was Tahiti. We understand that the aircraft was sprayed there for insects and other problems. But when the aircraft arrived at the international airport in Sydney, the quarantine officials were not satisfied, because there were not appropriate certificates with the consignment. The cattle were left on board the aircraft for 4 hours until certification came through from the New Zealand authorities. Nonetheless, the quarantine officials were not completely satisfied that the cattle should be removed from quarantine. They designated the Sydney showground as a quarantine station because the Abbotsford quarantine station happened to be full. So the entrepreneur's cattle served their quarantine period. They remained at the showground long after they needed to. We understand that one other stud breeder, however, entered the showground and removed his animal- a heifer- without authority. I am now having investigations made to see whether the person in question should be prosecuted. But the entrepreneur did the right and proper thing. 
I thank the honourable member for Isaacs for his interest in this matter. For some considerable time he has been very concerned about the problems of nursing homes and the patients in those nursing homes. I must say that the Government is concerned with the current inflationary problems that have caused difficulties to nursing homes. I shall be arranging a conference with the voluntary organisations in the middle of June. The Government has decided to set up a committee of inquiry to look into the whole area of care for the sick aged. I am pleased to be able to announce to the honourable member for Isaacs and indeed to the House that amendments to the National Health Act come into force today. The patients in nursing homes, particularly those in nursing homes that benefit from deficit financing arrangements will be able to retain, not the $4 a week that the Labor Party brought about for its own personal spending, but $5 a week. 
It is part of a continuing progress towards restoring the equity that they were given in 1972 by the former Liberal-Country Party Government. The honourable member for Robertson, with his red tie, laughs. He was party to a decision that reduced the amount that a patient could hold from $6 to $4 in spite of inflation. Where was his compassion and where was his concern for the dignity and independence of the pensioners in nursing homes? We have increased the amount for personal spending by 25 per cent. We will not rest until we restore the amount to what it was in real terms when we went out of office in 1 972. 
I can only repeat to the honourable member for Sturt that the Government is mindful of the very serious problems that confront nursing homes in Australia and also of the difficulties that are being experienced by pensioners within those nursing homes because of the great gap in money terms between the benefits payable and the fees being charged by the nursing homes that their relatives and friends are having to bridge. It is true that we have maintained a control on the fees being charged by nursing homes. We will be meeting with the nursing home associations and the private hospital associations in June in a one-day seminar to have a look at the total problem. In due course the Government will be undertaking a thorough review of the whole problem of nursing homes, the care of the aged and the care of the sick aged in Australia, to see whether we can overcome some of the difficulties to which the honourable member has referred affecting not just the nursing home proprietors but also the people who are in those homes and their relatives. 
For the information of honourable members I present the third main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty entitled 'Social/Medical Aspects of Poverty in Australia', together with a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to that report. Due to the limited number of copies available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Social Security employs the equivalent of 5 persons on duties associated with staff recruitment. The current amount of salary payable in respect of these recruitment duties is estimated to be $59,000 p.a. 
The Department of Social Security does not engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff 
Nil. 
The Department of Social Security utilises from time to time the services of the Commonwealth Employment Service to recruit Labourers, Hospital Assistants, Medical Orderlies, Cooks, Nursing Sisters, Tradesmen, Watchmen, Clerks (short-term relief), Clerical Assistants (short-term relief). No charge is made by the Commonwealth Employmem Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) There is currently a total of 21 persons, located as follows, who are engaged full-time on duties associated with the recruitment of staff: 
Department of Health-U 
ii) Capital Territory Health Commission-8 
Health Insurance Commission- 1 
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories- 1 
Current annual salaries payable amount to $203,443. 
) On occasions, private employment agencies have been engaged by the Department of Health to assist in the recruitment of urgently needed relief medical and nursing staff for employment in the Northern Territory. Limited use had also been made of such agencies by the Health Insurance Commission. The other authorities are not utilising private employment agencies for recruitment of staff. 
Costs for the financial year 1974-75 amounted to: 
i) Department of Heal th-$ 100 
Health Insurance Commission- $1,045.61. 
Limited assistance is sought by the Department of Health from the Commonwealth Employment Service mainly in relation to recruitment of semi-skilled manual workers in the Northern Territory. Use is also made of the services available by the authorities listed in (1) as necessary, for recruitment of manual workers, keyboard and lower level clerical staff. No charges have been made in respect of the services provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Production of influenza virus vaccine by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories commenced in 1948. The information available indicates that average annual production since then has been 1 000 000 doses within a range from 300 000 to S 000 000 doses. Average annual export has been about 5 per cent of the total doses produced. 
In addition approximately $ 1,000,000 worth of bulk vaccine has been sold to export markets over the past S years, but this was produced when the plant was not required for local production. 
No vaccine has been sent overseas this year except for a small quantity to New Zealand. 
No. Export orders are taken up after the local need is met. 
Each batch requires a mininum of 10 weeks from the innoculation of the eggs to the completion of all tests on the final dispensed product. 
5 ) The maximum number of doses that can be produced in one batch depends on the yields which vary from strain to strain. The present average output is approximately 1 IS 000 doses per batch. 
Production for the 1976 vaccine commenced in September 197S. However, due to a strain change, the effective production of A/Victoria vaccine did not commence until January 1976. 
There have been no failures of batches or doses within batches to date in respect of the 1976 production. 
The target production for Australian use in 1976 is 2 million doses. Approximately two-thirds of this target had been distributed by 2 1 May and the remainder was in progressive stages of production. 
The vaccine is distributed through wholesalers and is also sold direct to hospitals and Government Departments. Approximately 85 per cent of the vaccine is distributed through wholesalers. 
The total distribution in each State as at 2 1 May was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) In addition to its Head Office at Parkville, Melbourne, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories have branch offices in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart. Distribution is also carried out by the Commonwealth Department of Health Laboratories at Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton, Toowoomba and Lismore but these centres are staffed solely by officers of the Commonwealth Department of Health. 
Details of the total number of CSL staff involved in the administration, sales and distribution of products and the current year's costs are as follows: 
(a) Officers employed in capital city branches are involved in branch administration, distribution of products and selling activities. 
Although no distribution is carried out by CSL in provincial cities, there are 10 representatives based in provincial cities throughout Australia. 
and (5) These questions are not applicable as no distribution is carried out by CSL in provincial cities. 
Agreement with West Germany (Question No. 633) 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Interim Committee for the Children's Commission has already considered an application from the Victorian Institute of Early Childhood Development for financial assistance for the Institute's in-service training courses. 
On 26 March 1976 1 advised the Principal of the Institute that regrettably no financial support could be given for inservice training courses conducted by the Institute during 1975-76 because other requests for financial assistance were regarded as ratine higher priority for the limited funds available under the Childhood Services Program. As the Institute's application was within the scope of the Childhood Services Program, the Principal was also advised that she could, if she wished, re-apply for financial assistance in 1976-77 and that such an application would be considered in the light of the funds available in that financial year. 
Agreement with West Germany (Question No. 681) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Exploratory discussions took place in Bonn in May last year. 
No- the matters discussed are still under examination. 
To the extent that some people are not receiving pensions from the Federal Republic of Germany because they have taken Australian citizenship, they could be said to be disadvantaged. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) On 10 May 1976 I met in Canberra with State Ministers to have exploratory discussions regarding the future of National compensation. The State Ministers present were: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Honourable A. E. Adermann, M.P.- Minister for the Northern Territory; the Honourable A. A. Staley, M.P.Minister for the Captal Territory;  Senator the  Honourable M. G. C. Guilfoyle- Minister for Social Security; the Honourable R. I. Viner, M.P.-Minister for Aboriginal Affairs; the Honourable R. Payne, M.P.-Minister of Community Welfare, South Australia; the Honourable B. Dixon, M.P.-Minister for Social Welfare and Youth, Sport and Recreation, Victoria; the Honourable J. Herbert, M.L.A.- Minister for Community Welfare Services, Queensland; the Honourable D. J. Baldock, M.H.A.- Minister for Housing and Social Welfare, Tasmania; the Honourable N. E. Baxter, M.P.-Minister for Community Welfare, Western Australia; the Honourable R. F. Jackson, M.P.-Minister for Youth and Community Services, New South Wales; the Honourable R. J. Walker, M.P.-Minister for Social Welfare, New Zealand. 
(a) At the Conference of the Council of Social Welfare Ministers in Darwin on 21 May 1976 I outlined the Commonwealth Government's decision on the Australian Assistance Plan as follows: 'In the light of our consideration of all that has been done to evaluate the Plan, we believe that it is a worthwhile experiment in social planning and local action in determining welfare priorities. There is clearly much value in this son of action. 
In the context of our belief in the Federal system, we are convinced that this type of program is a totally appropriate one for administering and funding at the State and local government level. 
We therefore believe that State Governments should make their own decisions as to whether the Australian Assistance Plan is to continue in their States in the present form or in some modified form. 
We recognise that it would be unreasonable to seek an immediate response from Ministers today as to what State Governments wish to do following our decision. 
State Governments may need time to work out with their local government authorities the form of any future involvement with the Australian Assistance Plan they may decide on. 
To enable arrangements to be worked out between State and local governments in a considered way, the Commonwealth Government will continue to fund, at the present grant levels, all 37 funded Regional Councils for Social Development and their staffs for a maximum period of 12 months from 1 July 1976. This will involve the maximum Commonwealth commitment of $3m for that year. 
The Commonwealth Government does not propose to make funds available for new community welfare projects but commitments on projects already approved, but not totally funded, will be met. My officers estimate that the Commonwealth Government's commitment for these projects is approximately $2m. 
Where State Governments propose a continuance of Regional Councils for Social Development we would propose that steps should be taken as early as possible to begin the transfer to State Governments of the administrative functions now carried out by the Commonwealth. This should greatly facilitate the orderly transfer of Australian Assistance Plan activities before the end of the period of Commonwealth funding which will extend up to a maximum of 12 months from 1 July 1976. 
Beyond this, the Commonwealth does not propose further funding for the Australian Assistance Plan either for community welfare projects or for administration or development. 
It will, however, co-operate totally in any transitional administrative arrangements that would aid the smooth transfer from Commonwealth to State administration. 
The Prime Minister will be writing to Premiers conveying the decision outlined '. 
(b) The majority of State Ministers, while agreeing that the AAP should be a State responsibility, wanted the Commonwealth Government to continue the funding of the AAP. However, in view of the intention of the Prime Minister to convey the Commonwealth's decision by letter to the Premiers, a detailed response from the State Governments concerning future legislative or administrative action on the AAP is not yet available. 
No requests or suggestions were made at the Conference by the Territories for legislative or administrative action. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited 
The Rural and Industries Bank of Western Australia The Savings Bank of Adelaide The Savings Bank of Tasmania, and The Launceston Bank for Savings 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No specific criteria are laid down but where, after examining a pensioner's assets, income and liabilities, it is apparent that payment of hospital charges would cause a pensioner financial hardship the hospitals recommend to the Commissioner that hospital charges be remitted. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am informed that the answers were factual. 
I am informed that, in accordance with normal procedure, the draft reply was the outcome of advice obtained from a number of departmental officers at various levels in the Department. 
I have no reason to believe that the Department does not exercise great care in the preparation of any advice to its Minister. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) A claimant who has been continuously resident in Australia for not less than 10 years at any time does not need to satisfy any further specific residence test in order to qualify for age pension in Australia. 
There is the additional qualification, however, that the claimant be residing in, and physically present in, Australia on (he date on which the claim for pension is lodged. 
If a person who formerly lived in Australia returns to this country and is granted a pension, the pension is not payable overseas if the pensioner leaves Australia within 12 months after the date he last arrived in the country. 
The purpose of the last mentioned provision is to deter people who ordinarily reside abroad from returning temporarily to Australia in anticipation of qualifying for payment of a pension overseas. 
As with any provision which adversely affects an applicant, circumstances could be envisaged in which hardship could result from its application. Relief may be offered where a person's reason for leaving or wishing to leave Australia before the expiration of the 12 months arose from circumstances that could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time the person returned to Australia. 
This involves a matter of Government policy which will be considered when this matter is next being reviewed. 
Yes. 
(a) Since March 1974 it has ben possible to grant and pay Australian age, invalid and widows' pensions to people overseas. The special conditions applying are briefly that: a claimant is in special need of financial assistance; a claimant ceased to live in Australia before 8 May 1 973; in the case of a claimant for age pension the applicant lived 30 years in Australia and left the country after reaching 60 years of age in the case of a man or 55 in the case of a woman. The 30 years' residence test does not apply to people claiming invalid or widow's pension respectively who became permanently incapacitated for work, or widows, in Australia. 
The ordinary conditions for grant of pensions, other than that of being resident in Australia, must also be satisfied. 
The Australian pension rate is regarded as an appropriate maximum level of assistance; the maximum pension rate applicable to a person is reduced by direct deduction from that rate of any income and the value of assets in excess of$400. 
No. 
and (e) No distinction is made between Australian citizens and non-citizens. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The basic rates of social security pensions and benefits are adjusted in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. These pensions and benefits include: age, invalid and widow's pensions, supporting mother's benefit, unemployment and sickness benefit, special benefit, sheltered employment allowances and service pensions. 
Mothers and guardians allowance and additional pensions for children have not been adjusted by movements in the consumer price index. However, the new rates of family allowances recently awarded by the Government will be of great assistance to pensioners and beneficiaries with children. 
In accordance with the practice adopted by the previous Government in the 1975-76 Budget, the rate of unemployment and sickness benefit payable to single persons under 18 years of age was not increased by the movements in the consumer price index when the last increases in pensions and benefits were granted. The question of the appropriate method of adjusting social security pensions, benefits and allowances will be considered by the Income Security Review as part of the review of the income security system as a whole. 
My Department has advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I understand these spiders are not indigenous to Australia. 
(3) 
The venomous spider genus  Loxosceles  is widely distributed in the temperate and tropical zones of the world. 
b )  Loxosceles  spiders have been found in both Adelaide and Sydney. However as only one male was recorded in Sydney the establishment of this species there is not confirmed. On the other hand, in Adelaide both male and female spiders have been recorded. 
It is not known how or when these spiders got into Australia. 
None of which I am aware 
There is no deficiency in the existing quarantine legislation. Importation of such spiders is prohibited under Quarantine Proclamation 76a unless conditions and restrictions specified in that proclamation are complied with. These requirements are rigorously enforced. Through its inspection and treatment activities, the Australian Quarantine Service takes all practical measures to avoid the unintentional entry of such pests. 
Airstrip at Coonawarra (Question No. 424) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) On the assumption that information is required on the average rate of pension payable to an age pensioner, the latest details for a single age pensioner are set out below: 
-The Minister for Social Security hasprovided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I ) The Government's program, for expenditure of $225m over a 3 year period, represents a growth over similar expenditure provided for in the 1975-76 Budget. It compares even more favourably with the 3 years to 30 June 1976, during which expenditure will be $ 137m. 
2 ) The amount of the growth in respect of the two 3 year period;, would be $88m. 
Aged Persons Accommodation  (Question No.  7  IS) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) It is proposed that an amount of $45m be made available for aged person's accommodation during 1976-77. It must be recognised, however, that grants considerably in excess of that amount will be approved during the same twelve months period. 
2 ) Payment of a grant is usually made over a period of 1 8 months to 2 years. The heaviest expenditure will therefore be incurred during the second and third years of the program, as additional grants are approved, and during those two years the Government's objective is to provide a further $180m. This will substantially reduce, if not eliminate, the backlog of claims. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government's new funding program can be implemented under the existing provisions of the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Act and it is therefore not proposed to introduce any amending legislation. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
An announcement has been made of the Government's new program for funding accommodation for the aged. A detailed statement was issued by the Minister for Social Security on 20 May 1976. The Minister explained that $225m would be made available under a 3 year program commencing I July 1976 and that this would lead to the construction of additional accommodation for 15 000 aged persons. The Minister also announced that subsidy limits would be increased from $9,360 to $10,200 for single units of accommodation, thus increasing the value of grants to organisations. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Far from being discouraged, organisations will be encouraged to seek subsidy assistance to provide additional accommodation for the aged. Whereas the subsidy limit for a single unit of accommodation was previously $9,360, the limit under the new funding program has been raised to $10,200. A situation has been reached where organisations received only about 6 1 per cent of the cost of building a unit of accommodation under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act. Under the new $225m 3 year program organisations can expect to receive 66% per cent of unit costs and this improvement will be maintained by quarterly reviews of subsidy limits. 
Imports of Saddlery and other Harness Makers' Goods  (Question No.  724) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Under the Community Health Program administered by my Department, Commonwealth funds have been made available to the Health Commission of New South Wales to assist in the appointment of a community nurse and a community nurse aide to be based at Narromine. I understand that these appointments have not yet been made. 
I am informed that, when appointed, the nurse and aide will provide services in the Timbrevongie Shire, including the towns of Narromine, Nevertire and Trangie. 
Commonwealth assistance made available under the Community Health Program for this service was $10,380 in 1975-76. 
The usual level of Commonwealth assistance under the Community Health Program applies to this service, namely, 75 per cent of capital costs and 90 per cent of operating costs. The balances of 25 per cent of capital costs and 10 per cent of operating costs are to be met by the Health Commission of New South Wales. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The United States Department of Agriculture and my Department have been in correspondence over a long period concerning veterinary health conditions which would be required to ensure safe importation of cattle semen from the United States. Examination of correspondence on this matter has not revealed a direct approach from the American National Cattlemen's Association. 
Cattle semen was permitted importation from Canada until March of this year, when the Canada Department of Agriculture reported the presence of bluetongue in that country. Australian importation conditions require certification by the Canada Department of Agriculture that bluetongue has not occurred in Canada for a period of 12 months immediately prior to the date of despatch of the semen. As this certificate cannot now be provided the importation of cattle semen from Canada has effectively been suspended. 
Since bluetongue is now reported to be present in Canada discrimination no longer exists. 
The differentiation which applied between the two countries prior to March 1976 was valid. Clinical bluetongue had not been reported in Canada before that time but the disease exists in a number of areas in the United States. The Canadian authorities maintained a program of continuous monitoring for cattle entering the country from the United States to alert them to the possible introduction of the disease from that source. 
Cattle semen is not imported from the United States because of technical difficulties in that country in providing conditions for the collection of the semen which ensure complete protection against subsequent transmission of bluetongue. These technical problems are being resolved. Less stringent conditions applied to Canada than could apply to the U.S.A. whilst the former country was free of bluetongue. 
The intake of Australian beef by the U.S.A. has no bearing on quarantine precautions necessarily taken by this country. 
The Department of Overseas Trade has advised the following: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Three fee-for-service and 2 salaried medical practitioners are based at Kippax Health Centre. 
The fee-for-service doctors employ their own support staff. Salaried doctors share a receptionist and 2 nurses employed by the Commission. The Commission also employs 4 further clerical staff to cover main foyer reception, telephone-switchboard and medical records on behalf of the centre overall. 
Other Commission staff (including specialists, nurses and allied health professionals) provide services to patients of all doctors in the centre. (See (7)). 
Apart from the support staff employed by feeforservice doctors, the staff referred to in (2) are paid by the Commission. Fee-for-service doctors pay rentals based on the size of their rooms in the range of $2,000-2,500 per annum plus cleaning charges. 
The centre opened on 17 May 1975, with 2 feeforservice and 2 salaried practitioners. One further feeforservice doctor has joined the centre this year; one salaried practitioner has resigned and been replaced and a further part-time salaried practitioner worked in the centre for approximately 5 months to February 1976. 
The medical practitioners provide a joint after-hours service, including emergency clinics on Saturday and Sunday mornings; a sister employed by the Commission supports both free-for-service and salaried doctors at the emergency clinics. 
In the first five months of 1976, the salaried medical practitioners at the centre provided an average of 42 consultations per day. I am not in a position to supply the information sought by the honourable member in respect of the fee-for-service group. However, should he wish to directly approach the medical practitioners involved, I will gladly provide him with their names. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The anti-tuberculosis program conducted under the tuberculosis arrangements with the States will cease on 3 1 December 1976. 
Yes. 
I am informed by the State Tuberculosis authorities that 411054 chest X-ray examinations for detection of tuberculosis were carried out in New South Wales in 1 975. These examinations detected 58 active or probably active cases of tuberculosis, 22 1 inactive cases of tuberculosis and 1937 other significant conditions requiring investigation including 1 57 cases of lung cancer. 
Yes. 
The anti-tuberculosis program cost $16,485,000 throughout Australia in 1974-75. In the 27 years of operation of the program the total cost to the Commonwealth has been $325m. 
No further investigations are necessary because the States are adequately equipped to maintain control of tuberculosis as part of their normal public health responsibilities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The National Health Act provides that the Minister for Health may establish in each State a Pharmaceutical Services Committee of Inquiry consisting of the Director of Health in the State, an officer of the Commonwealth Department of Health who is a pharmacist and four pharmaceutical chemists appointed by the Minister. 
Until recently it had been the practice for the Minister to appoint three pharmacists from a panel nominated by the Pharmacy Guild of Australia and one pharmacist from a panel nominated by the Friendly Societies Dispensaries Association. 
Following representations from the Pharmaceutical Association of Australia and New Zealand, the then Minister for Health,  Dr Everingham,  in 1975 approved a change in the composition of the non-departmental membership of the Committees, which now comprises two pharmacists nominated by The Pharmacy Guild, one nominated by the Friendly Societies Dispensaries Association and one nominated by the Pharmaceutical Society in the respective State. The Pharmaceutical Societies represent the professional practice of pharmacy and all pharmacists (whether employer or employee pharmacists) are eligible to be members. This policy was followed when the non-departmental membership of these Committees was changed on 1 March 1 976. 
No. 
See (4). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department does not have the information sought by the honourable member. The three bodies to which he has referred are of course, independent organisations. 
The Opposition sees Medibank as the cure-all and the cover-up for its weakness and impotence in defeat. It is amazing how many sections of the community and how many people have tried to rip off Medibank. As is clearly shown by todays debate and by comments made in recent days, the Opposition seeks to gain the maximum political advantage in surrounding Medibank with a cloud of emotionalism and anxiety. Notwithstanding the fact that the  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and I have in recent days joined Medibank Private, we face here today a matter of public importance introduced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in these terms: 
The Government's failure to maintain Medibank. 
The Opposition cares nothing for 50 per cent of the population, including millions of pensioners and low and medium wage and salary earners who will remain with Medibank standard. It is doing its best either deliberately or by default to undermine confidence in Medibank, especially in Medibank Private insurance. If one listened to the statements from the Opposition over recent days one would think that it wanted people to join the private health funds rather than Medibank Private. Late last week the Leader of the Opposition belatedly realised that his Party's attacks on Medibank Private had gone too far. Realising the foolishness of his act, he added to a long and critical motion before the Labor Party's Federal Executive a statement of support for Medibank Private. It did not receive the prominence given to the rest of the distorted nonsense about Medibank which we have been hearing from the Opposition. Let me defend Medibank Private.  (Quorum formed) 
It is rather incredible that the Opposition has to get a quorum in order to support its own discussion of a matter of public importance on Medibank. As I said earlier, late last week the Leader of the Opposition belatedly realised that his Party's attacks on Medibank had gone too far and he issued a long statement supporting Medibank Private. It has been these irresponsible statements that lead me to try to defend Medibank Private in the market. The rates for Medibank Private were calculated on the best actuarial advice by Medibank itself. The only action taken by the Government was to give a subsidy estimated to cost $ 15m to keep the cost of premiums for shared room intermediate ward hospital accommodation within the reach of low and medium income families. That subsidy is available to all private health insurance funds. We took that action because 70 per cent of the Australian people had already taken out extra insurance above standard Medibank. Many families did that because they wanted to be treated by their own doctor in hospital. The Government had a genuine concern to ensure that people were not denied that choice. 
The Opposition's suggestion that Medibank Private will deliberately run dead is a direct reflection on the dedicated and enthusiastic people of the Medibank organisation- people who cannot defend themselves from political attack. I wonder why on earth the Australian Labor Party continues to attack Medibank and continues to create doubt in peoples minds as to whether they should or should not support it. The Opposition is concentrating its publicity on the private health fund rates for private room and private hospital insurance. It must know that only 20 per cent of the Australian people- mostly those on the higher incomes- seek that form of insurance; 80 per cent of the people covered by private funds are insured at intermediate ward level of hospital cover. That is the level of cover that most people want. In that area both Medibank Private and the private health funds have very similar rates. Medibank is very competitive, and will continue to be very competitive, in the efficiency of its service and the speed with which it can process its claims. We make no apology for having announced at the time we did the actuarially estimated premiums, which were worked out with the Health Insurance Commission and our actuaries, to try to allay some of the public concern that was being expressed about how much it would cost. Instead of attempting to confuse and to frighten people for its own political motives, the Opposition should get wholeheartedly behind Medibank and ensure that Medibank 's new fund has a fair chance and a fair go. 
The real cause of the Opposition's complaint is its usual narrow-mined hatred of any kind of competition or any kind of choice. By their own admission some private funds will have to dip into their reserves. No one can deny that that is good news for the public. That certainly is a direct result of Medibanks entry into the private health insurance business. It is high time that the Opposition stopped trying to turn back the clock and accepted the fact that the Government has made its final decisions and that the new health insurance arrangements will take affect from 1 October. There will be 3 choices. The first, of course, will be standard Medibank as it is now, and the second will be standard Medibank plus basic hospital-only private insurance which is available to people to day. The .third choice will be complete medical and hospital private insurance cover. The people who choose this cover will pay the premium but they will not pay the levy. Those 3 basic choices are quite straightforward. They are similar, as I said earlier, to the choices that are available today. 
The 2 principal changes are that everybody except those on the lowest incomes, most pensioners and certain defence personnel and repatriation beneficiaries and those who privately insure, will be paying 2Vi per cent of their taxable incomes towards meeting the cost of some of their health care. They will pay according to their means, up to a ceiling of $300 a year for a family and $ ISO for an individual. The second change is that people will be able to take out both medical and hospital insurance cover from Medibank Private or any other registered private health fund. They will pay the insurance premiums but not the 2  Vi  per cent levy. 
The Government announced its fiscal policy decisions on 20 May, including the full indexation of personal income tax, the generous family allowances and the modifications that we are talking about today. During that low key debate the Opposition congratulated the Government on numerous occasions. Medibank Mark 1 certainly achieved universal health insurance but it did so at the expense of largely ignoring the need for economy and efficiency in overall health care. The changes we have made will save Medibank from destroying itself by the uncontrolled explosion of costs. The promise by the Leader of the Opposition to restore Medibank Mark 1 is nothing more than a recipe for Medibank 's self destruction. The lesson of defeat has taught him nothing. If he is not attacking His Excellency the Governor-General or the Chief Justice of the High Court, he is attacking Medibank. 
The Government's decisions on Medibank were taken as a result of the reports and recommendations of the Medibank Review Committee. That Committee was established in January against a background of allegations of abuses and rip-offs, allegations of over-use of medical and health services, and against a background of exploding health care costs in Australia. The cost argument cannot be ignored by any responsible government. In this financial year alone total health care costs are estimated to explode to $5,400m or $ 1,000m more than last year's total export returns from iron ore, coal, wool, wheat and meat. The rise in health care costs is far in excess of the general high rise in inflation. Doctor's incomes have risen by record amounts under Medibank. 
What is the argument all about? The Australian Labor Party argues that there should be a special levy to help fund universal health cover. Although the Opposition opposed the levy during the last session, the Leader of the Opposition now supports a straight levy of 1 .8 per cent on all incomes. It is interesting to note that in 1972 in the policy speech that he gave there was no mention whatsoever of a levy. The Government rejected a straight levy because it would have done nothing but perpetuate a system of runaway costs. Under the straight levy, the government of the day would have been forced continually to increase the percentage level in a fruitless chase after costs. If I was reported as saying, as the Leader of the Opposition has said, that the Government will increase the  2Vi  per cent levy, that is quite incorrect. The Government will not increase or change the 2V4 per cent levy, but from time to time it will adjust the ceiling amounts that will be payable. 
The evidence for this is provided by the experience of the Opposition itself in regard to the levy. When the Opposition first proposed Medibank the levy was to be a straight 1.25 per cent. Then it became 1.35 per cent. This year the proposal was up to 1.6 per cent. Now the Leader of the Opposition has raised the proposed figure to 1.8 per cent. Under the straight levy system there would be no way in the world that a government could maintain the levy at a percentage level because as costs exploded underneath that levy the percentage levy would have to increase. We have adopted the optional system for 4 very good reasons. Firstly, we recognise that 70 per cent of the Australian people are already privately insured. Secondly, we recognise that competition will be encouraged between the public and the private insurance systems. Thirdly, we sought to preserve private practice and the desired relationship between the patient and the doctor. Lastly, we sought to reduce the burden of costs on Consolidated Revenue by $800m in a full year, and separate the costs in a more equitable manner to the people. 
Of course, the biggest subsidy will go to those on low and medium incomes and those who suffer from chronic illness. The lower the income, the higher the subsidy. This is clearly shown by the fact that under the Medibank levy the average person staying with Medibank will contribute only 18 per cent towards his health costs. Those taking out full private cover will contribute about 70 per cent towards those costs. So I think it is absolutely incredible for us to be discussing this subject as a matter of public importance. 
The fact of the matter is that Medibank has been maintained. The Government has maintained 3 basic principles to which it committed itself. Firstly, Medibank has been maintained and broadened. Universal health insurance remains. Everyone will remain covered automatically for full medical care and standard ward treatment in hospital. Pensioners dependent on pensions and those on the lowest incomes will pay no levy. Every Australian resident is entitled to those benefits unless he voluntarily chooses to take out private cover with a health fund. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order.  The Minister's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)- 
and (3) No. For officers based in Melbourne facepieces and gas masks are personally fitted at the Materials Research Laboratories, Maribyrnong, Victoria. However, where this is impracticable, for officers in other States and the Northern Territory, fittings are made by the Quarantine Inspector or by the officer using the equipment 
All officers are instructed in relevant safety procedures and serviceability of the equipment. It is mandatory for routine checks of the equipment to be made prior to use. 
No. 
The Materials Research Laboratories recommend that facepieces be referred to them for servicing at intervals of 6-12 months. In addition Departmental instructions state that all facepieces and masks should be examined for the occurence of defects at least once in every three months. 
The requirements were not observed for periods in Port Fremantle previous to February 1974 and Port Adelaide previous to March 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The establishment of an offshore animal quarantine station is currently under active consideration. 
None 
It is intended that cattle, sheep, goats and horses, if necessary, would be accommodated at the station. A Committee will be established to consider applications for accommodation at the station. Priority would be given to the importation of stock of the greatest benefit to Australia in developing its genetic pool. 
This matter is currently receiving consideration. Final decisions have not yet been reached. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Significant progress has been made with the voluntary introduction of hospital accreditation procedures in Australia. In the year ending 30 June 1975, the Australian Hospital Standards Committee, a joint Australian Medical Association and Australian Hospitals Association Committee, was restructured and retitled the Australian Council on Hospital Standards. The Council has four major goals: 
to develop and publish standards for Australian hospitals; 
to introduce and maintain a program of hospital accreditation; 
) to liaise with Government with regard to the needs of hospitals; and 
to investigate and research new ways of assessing patient care. 
The Council has developed 'The Accreditation Guide for Australian Hospitals' in consultation with the relevant professional bodies. It has been assisted in its work by grants allocated by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission of $85,000 since 1973. 
I understand that the Australian Council on Hospital Standards is now applying its system of hospital accreditation in acute general hospitals in Victoria and that discussions are underway with Health Authorities in New South Wales and South Australia. Other States will be approached as resources permit. 
Systems of review which will ensure maintenance and improvement of health care standards in Australia have my support The hospital accreditation program of the Australian Council on Hospital Standards is one such system. 
The present proposal for hospital accreditation is an example of peer review procedures involving the medical profession. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Public Service Regulation 35 determines that 'except in the course of official duty, no information concerning public business or any matter of which an officer or employee has knowledge officially shall be given, directly or indirectly, nor shall the contents of official papers be disclosed, by an officer or employee without the express authority of the Chief Officer. ' 
It is Departmental policy to permit an officer or employee to publish or deliver papers at seminars or conferences. 
When an officer or employee is to be interviewed on television he would be expected to discuss and receive Departmental approval for the contents of the proposed talk. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to Tables 1 and 2 hereunder. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission entitled 'Rural Health in Australia'. 
I should like to make it very clear that the Government has in no way abandoned the community health program. Expenditure under the former Government's program for 1975-76 was of the order of $54.3m. The allocation under the community health program this year will be $81m, $70m of which will be going to the States to assist in maintaining the existing level of activity. We have decided to make block grants to the States to enable them to operate with flexibility in respect of the projects that are in existence. Because of the representations I have had from the honourable member for McMillan and from some other Victorian members, I have asked officers of my Department to consult the Victorian authorities to ensure that no restrictions are imposed in Victoria that are not absolutely necessary. We do want to see the block grant that we have made to Victoria- I think it is of the order of $ 15.2m- applied in such a way that the community health program will be maintained at its present level. I know that in Victoria there is a campaign going on which is politically motivated, politically inspired and undoubtedly designed to panic the people of Victoria into believing that the Commonwealth Government, this Government, is abandoning the program. That is quite incorrect. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At no stage has a proposal been put forward for the acceptance of drug evaluation and registration for marketing procedures of other countries. As mentioned in answer to Question No. 3213  (Hansard  .- 5.11.75) negotiations are proceeding with a number of overseas countries to introduce reciprocal arrangements for an exchange of drug evaluation reports. Before final arrangements can be made it will be necessary to assess evaluation reports from those countries to ascertain whether in fact their standards are comparable to our own. To this end the Swedish and United States of America drug control authorities have been asked to provide copies of reports in respect of three products currently being evaluated by officers of my Department. However, this is not simply a matter for the drug control authorities themselves. My Department has still received no response from the National Council of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Industries as to the attitude of the overseas principals and affiliates of its member companies towards allowing the overseas evaluations to be made available on a confidential basis, although an individual response has been received from a group of Swedish pharmaceutical manufacturers. A senior officer of the Department has just returned from a visit to the United States and Canada where he discussed this matter with the authorities in those countries. A general willingness to co-operate was evident. 
United States, Canada, Sweden and United Kingdom. 
If the standard of evaluation reports is acceptable to the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee then it should reduce the present delays in Australia in respect of some applications. 
Yes. 
The Australian Drug Evaluation Committee is currently allocating priorities for the evaluation of new drugs based on its own assessment of need and on information provided by the drug companies. This has resulted in a greatly accelerated processing of those drugs, yet to be evaluated, which represent an important advance in therapy. My Department is also endeavouring to recruit, so far as its staff ceiling will permit, suitable officers for the evaluation of marketing applications. Depending upon the availability of funds during 1976-77, greater use may be made of external evaluators. 
The complexities of drug evaluation and the great divergence of scientific data comprising submissions received, according to the nature of the drug, make it impossible to estimate when all will be processed. 
Air Services to and from South Africa (Question No. 879) 
Those pensioners who hold pensioner health benefit cards will not have to pay any Medibank levy. Of course pensioners above the means test and those with high incomes will be expected to pay the levy if they do not privately insure. Successive governments have always recognised that pensioners generally have a much higher call upon the provision of health care and therefore have a much higher health care cost to themselves. This Government will continue to maintain that principle. 
The honourable member for Franklin has taken a considerable interest in this matter. The Minister for Social Security has responded to the representations that the honourable member has made, so I understand, to ensure that the problem to which he alluded is overcome by allowing the State Director of the Department of Social Security to handle applications from unemployed farmers outside the categories to which the honourable member referred. This of course will overcome some of the confusion and speed up the payment of unemployment benefits to farmers in Tasmania who are in great need. However, if there are indications of substantial applications, the State Director will be asked to inform the DirectorGeneral in Canberra of that development. I thank the honourable member for Franklin for the excellent work he has done for those people he represents. 
We have asked the medical profession to continue to bulk bill for pensioner patients and to accept the payment of the benefit as payment in full for the services that have been rendered. When the patient goes into the doctor's surgery he will be in a position to identify whether he is a member of Medibank Public or whether he is privately insured. If the doctor sends the bill to Medibank for services rendered to a patient it will be checked out against the record in Medibank Public. So there will be a clear record kept by Medibank which will determine whether in fact a patient is privately insured or whether he is covered by Medibank Public. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will give effect to the Government's decision, as announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 2 February 1976, to abolish the Social Welfare Commission. In reviewing the activities of over 50 bodies of various kinds which had been conducting inquiries for the Commonwealth, the Prime Minister said: ... the Government has decided that the Social Welfare Commission and the Australian Housing Corporation, should be abolished while the functions of the Australian Development Assistance Agency and the road Safety and Standards Authority should be taken over by Government Departments. The Government has taken these decisions on the basis that the functions of the four bodies concerned can be carried out more efficiently and cheaply and more properly under Ministerial and Parliamentary control if conducted within a departmental framework. 
The Social Welfare Commission was established as an interim committee by the Labor Government in early 1 973, and the Social Welfare Commission Act received the royal assent in November of that year. In reaching its decision about the Social Welfare Commission the present Government was mindful of the fact that in June 1975 the then Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had announced the Labor Government's intention to abolish the Commission. 
It is clear to the Government that the Social Welfare Commission is not required in a situation in which the Government, through its Ministers, will be determining priorities and maintaining direct communications on social welfare issues with State, local government and voluntary agencies and representatives of consumer groups. For example, there are many voluntary welfare organisations which are playing an important role in commenting on the formulation of social welfare policy. The Government will continue assistance to voluntary bodies and aim to upgrade mechanisms of communication with such groups in the voluntary sector. I will say a little more about our plans for improved consultation with the voluntary welfare sector in a few moments. 
Funds are made available through the Department of Social Security to three of the larger national voluntary organisations each year. The Australian Council of Social Services (ACOSS), the Australian Council on the Ageing (ACOTA) and the Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled (ACROD) Will receive- in 1976-77 grants totalling $0.45 m. In addition to the funding of these national bodies the Government supports a variety of other organisations in the welfare field. For example, grants paid through the Department of Social Security in 1976-77 to the good neighbour councils alone will total $ 1.22m. 
The Social Welfare Commission did not directly administer any Commonwealth welfare programs. This is the role of the Department of Social Security and other relevant departments of State, which are under direct ministerial control. The Government fully recognises the importance of social welfare in the life of the Australian community. Accordingly,' in order to ensure that adequate data is available for policy and planning purposes and that the best use is made of available resources, it is proposed to establish a social welfare research centre within the University of New South Wales. Preliminary negotiations have already taken place with the University which, since 1 972, has had a Family Research Unit funded through the Department of Social Security. Further details regarding the proposed Centre will be announced in the near future. 
As mentioned earlier, the Government is taking steps to fulfil its commitment to provide effective mechanisms for co-operation and interchange of ideas with interested groups in the social welfare field. A national consultative group on social welfare is to be established to meet with the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and her officers to discuss and advise on current issues in social welfare which come within the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. Matters such as gaps and deficiencies in programs, arrangements for service delivery, assessment and review of priorities, and the modification of programs in the light of research findings, changing needs and social and economic conditions will be among those on which the group will be consulted. 
I envisage that the consultative group will have a membership of about 12 people comprising academics from relevant disciplines and other suitably qualified people active in the social welfare field, together with possibly one or two distinguished people with appropriate experience. It will include representatives of national welfare bodies and voluntary social welfare agencies, and will be serviced by the Department of Social Security. In establishing the consultative group the Government will ensure that there is no overlap or duplication between it and the more specialised advisory bodies such as the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped. . The basic welfare needs and problems of people are, in the main, similar throughout Australia but there are differences between States and, indeed, within the States. It is accordingly proposed to establish a social welfare consultative committee in each State and Territory. These committees will provide an input, in relation to the situation of people in each State, on problems or difficulties encountered in the administration of Commonwealth social security or social welfare programs at the State level. Arrangements are also being made to develop regular consultation between the Department of Social Security and organisations representative of women's interests. This will ensure that the very valuable contribution which these groups can make in relation to the special needs of women is available to the Government in formulating its social welfare policies. 
Further details of the consultative mechanisms proposed will be announced shortly but at this stage I can assure honourable members that our proposals will greatly strengthen our links with people and groups active in the welfare field. In addition to the continuing involvement of the Department of Social Security in income security issues, routine monitoring and evaluation of welfare programs are being developed and upgraded within the Social Welfare Division of the Department. A variety of case-study, survey, experimental and cost analytic techniques will be utilised to augment regular program monitoring. This will be particularly relevant in the introduction of new programs and the review of existing programs. 
More specialised evaluations are also conducted within the Department. An example of such an evaluation is the cost-benefit survey of the Australian Government Rehabilitation Service which was conducted over 5 years and reported on in 1975. Findings from studies such as these provide essential information for the formulation and development of policies and programs. The importance of independent evaluations conducted outside the Department of Social Security, supplementary to departmental evaluation and monitoring, is recognised and will be supported. Such evaluations have been conducted in respect of departmental programs. For example, in a pilot program 2 work preparation centres for the mildly mentally retarded are being evaluated over a 3 year period by Macquarie University in Sydney and Monash University in Melbourne. 
The Government will continue to support independent inquiries which examine various aspects of the social welfare field. These inquiries, of which the Poverty Inquiry and the National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry are examples, are particularly important in contributing to the development of social welfare policy. Honourable members will recall that in 1972 the Liberal-Country Party Government commissioned, with the support of the State Ministers responsible for child and social welfare, a family research project within the University of New South Wales to undertake a series of studies directed towards understanding and documenting family disruption and breakdown and changing family patterns in Australia. The Government has given undertakings that an examination would be made of activities of the Social Welfare Commission to ascertain the extent to which existing research projects and tasks would be continued. 
The Minister for Social Security has already announced the Government's approval for the continuation of research projects initiated by the commission and being undertaken by outside bodies and institutions. On abolition of the commission these projects will be administered by the Department of Social Security. We have also agreed to the funding of 2 additional research projects and 4 fellowships in welfare studies. Two major areas into which a number of these projects have a substantial input are the development of services relating to families and social welfare manpower planning. In reference to the former, wide ranging research is being conducted on family services in each State and the Territories, to ascertain current and future service needs of families in Australia. These studies are complementary to the work of the commission's Family Services Committee on which is represented relevant departments at Federal and State levels, and the voluntary welfare sector. The Family Services Committee will continue in order to complete a major report in this area during 1 976-77. 
In relation to social welfare manpower planning, present statistics concerning the workforce in the welfare field are not satisfactory. A continuing study of the changing roles of existing workers and the emergence of new needs in the community requiring new types of personnel, both professional and voluntary, if necessary. This work will be undertaken within the Department of Social Security. The meeting of State Social Welfare Ministers held in Darwin on 2 1 May 1976 identified social welfare manpower planning as of vital importance and the Minister for Social Security has agreed to the Minister's request that the work initiated by the Social Welfare Commission in this area be continued, with more direct involvement of the States as they are major users of welfare manpower. Investigation will continue on the need for a national body to co-ordinate education in social welfare in Australia. This study is seeking information from a wide range of interests, including tertiary institutions, employers, practitioners in the field, professional associations, voluntary organisations and industrial groups. 
At the Darwin conference of Ministers there was also strong support for standardisation of social welfare statistics. It was noted that there was great difficulty in arriving at priorities in social welfare or making any meaningful comparisons of welfare programs without having an adequate data base. The Minister for Social Security agreed that her department should undertake work immediately in this area seeking the co-operation of the Australian Bureau of Statistics in setting up a working party, comprising representatives of relevant Commonwealth and State government departments, to examine questions of the standardisation and adequacy of social welfare statistics and the desirability of convening a national conference on these matters. 
The staff of the Social Welfare Commission now occupy Public Service Act positions which are included on the establishment of the Department of Social Security. Action will be taken to transfer commission staff to the unattached list of the department on repeal of the Social Welfare Commission Act. Some officers will be used in activities, such as administering research projects and fellowship awards, servicing the Family Services Committee and undertaking work in the area of social welfare manpower planning, responsibility for which will be absorbed by the department. Others will be involved in other on going tasks in the Department of Social Security, either associated with former responsibilities of the Commission or with other responsibilities of the Department. A number or officers have already left the Commission; of those remaining some will be absorbed in the Department of Social Security, and some may obtain positions in other Commonwealth departments. 
The Government is mindful of the work which the Social Welfare Commission has undertaken but, for the reasons I have outlined, it is now considered opportune to consolidate advice on and research into social welfare matters within the appropriate departmental structures. As I have already indicated, consideration has been given to the existing commitments of the commission so that wind-up action can proceed in an orderly and efficient manner. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-I could ask the Leader of the Opposition to put the question on notice, particularly the detailed sections of it. From memory, the health funds have reserves of the order of $ 1 75m. As soon as the reports for the year ended 30 June this year come to hand I will certainly have them published. 
In regard to the last part of the question, inquiries and investigations are still going on interdepartmentally. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Acoustics Laboratory maintains permanently staffed Hearing Centres as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)and(2)(a)and(b)- 
In response to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition I did make inquiries and a copy of the report is now in my hands. 
-For 1974-75. I am making arrangements for that annual report to be tabled at the earliest opportunity. I have now sought a report for the year 1975-76 but it is not yet to hand. I do not think any fault lies with the private health funds. I understand that it takes some time to collate all the information from the private health funds. The Department has been as prompt in this matter as it has been able to be. 
I have given no instructions whatsoever to the General Manager or to the staff of Medibank Private. They are operating in the private health insurance field in a competitive manner and it would be quite improper for the Minister for Health to be instructing Medibank Private on what its schedules should provide. Naturally, I have had discussions with the General Manager about the benefits that are available. The General Manager and the staff of Medibank Private are constantly meeting to review the benefits that will be provided in the course of time. It will probably not be until 12 months of operation is completed that Medibank Private will be able to determine the most economic package that it can offer to the Australian people. 
Medibank Private is highly competitive with all the health insurance funds for the basic health and hospital cover. Some of the other funds have, of course, offered more at a lower price for the higher tables but 80 per cent of the Australian people who privately insure will insure for shared room accommodation. Medibank Private is highly competitive in that area. There was some criticism that Medibank Private was competing unfairly with the private funds. This is not true. We are competing, yes, and if our competition means that some of the private funds will have to use some of their reserves to compete with Medibank Private over a period of time, that will be in the public interest. Medibank Private is offering a very competitive package indeed. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) In the speech referred to I indicated that I anticipated an interim report would become available during May 1 976. 
The Income Security Review falls under the responsibility of the Prime Minister- the  Chairman  of the Review is drawn from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The Income Security Review has presented a number of reports to the Prime Minister; it is not envisaged that these reports will be made public 
1 understand that the Income Security Review does not envisage preparing a consolidated final report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I understand that newts are not indigenous to Australia. 
(a) Newts are widely distributed in many parts of the world including Europe, North and South America and Asia. 
Newts are widespread in Australia and available in many pet shops. 
It is not known how or when newts were first brought into Australia. 
None of which I am aware. 
There are no deficiencies in the existing quarantine legislation that would permit entry of newts into Australia. Importation of newts is prohibited under Quarantine Proclamation 76a unless the conditions and restrictions specified in that Proclamation are complied with. These requirements are rigorously enforced. Eradication of newts already in Australia falls outside the scope of powers exercisable under the Quarantine Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) approximately 4 months 
approximately 6 months 
approximately 7 months. 
For cats and dogs, the waiting time is fairly stable. For horses, the waiting time is increasing. 
My Department has plans for the extension of quarantine facilities to meet anticipated demand. 
Quarantine charges do not seek to recover the capital costs of quarantine facilities. This has been a long-standing practice in Australia which is also followed by the U.S.A., Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. 
The Quarantine Act does not authorize the recovery of quarantine costs from specific importers which do not relate directly to the importation concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Quarantine legislation prohibits the importation of certain fish and semen and ova of fish except under prescribed conditions. Penalties are provided for contravention of the legislation. The question of the control of fish already in Australian waterways is a matter for the States concerned. 
There has been only one attempt in recent years to import such items in contravention of quarantine legislation. The prohibited material was destroyed. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Income Security Review falls within the responsibility of the Prime Minister- the  Chairman  of the Review is from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The Review is required by its Terms of Reference to examine The relative merits of providing benefits through cash payments, services or a combination thereof. 
I understand that the Review is currently examining the whole question of cash payments compared to 'in kind' benefits, and that this examination will include consideration of the present means test on fringe benefits. 
In the meantime, consistent with abolition of the property test for pensions, a corresponding change is proposed to the eligibility test applying to fringe benefits. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) No amount is specified, but departmental guidelines covering the payment of Accommodation and Meal Subsidies provide that charges should not exceed the direct cost to the organisation, less the amount of subsidy that is payable and should also take into account the ability of the client or resident to pay. 
Departmental staff maintain regular contact with subsidised centres. Approval of a centre could be withdrawn in the event of the above criteria not being observed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not the Government's object to be prescriptive with regard to the form of peer review to be introduced in Australia. However, it would certainly wish it to be broadly based and to embrace the rather narrow and limited activities of tissue committees, length of stay reviews, death reviews, analyses of cross-infections, etc. 
Although, in general, Australian hospitals are not required to carry out medical audit, a recent survey of 92 short-stay acute hospitals revealed that whilst none of the surveyed hospitals had a complete medical auditing process, some elements of the process applied in almost half of the hospitals. This suggests that the concept of peer review is not alien to Australian health care. 
However, the extent to which the medical profession will take up the challenge remains to be seen and subsequent Government action will be determined accordingly. 
The system of health insurance in Australia and the traditions of medical practice in Australia form a set of conditions which do not lend themselves to totally adopting any seemingly comparable scheme overseas. My Department plans to examine in detail the structure of peer review systems existing elsewhere. However, while much can and has been learned from the operation of such systems, the situation in Australia calls for a system of peer review which ideally is established and maintained largely through the efforts of the Australian medical profession. 
I am sure that the medical profession in considering the various forms of peer review will investigate the systems prevailing in the U.S.A. and other countries. For the reasons I have set out previously it would be inappropriate, however, to impose a system on the medical profession in Australia merely on the basis that it appeared to function satisfactorily overseas. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following sixteen organisations are currently receiving salary subsidies under the Homeless persons Assistance Act: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Countries affected by the new provisions would include: 
-I am well aware of the concern of the honourable member for Holt, and indeed of a great number of other members of this House, about the problem that is being faced by people in nursing homes and their relatives who have to meet the enormous gap that has occurred between the benefit that is payable and the private nursing fee that has been approved by the Department of Health. Of course, the problem has occurred as a result of the serious inflation that this Government inherited from the former Government. We have always said that inflation, particularly inflation at the rate of 15 per cent, bears more heavily upon the disadvantaged people in the community than on the advantaged people in the community. That is why the Treasurer and the Government have been going to great lengths to try to overcome an inflationary situation that is causing such serious hardship. The Government is very concerned about the difficulties being experienced by people in nursing homes and their relatives as a consequence of the gap to which the honourable member referred. We have set up a committee of inquiry to inquire into the whole problem of the aged and the sick aged in Australia. We are expecting that we will receive a comprehensive report on a range of measures that should be taken to overcome the serious problem. 
I am well aware of the difficulties. The honourable member asks: 'When?' He has a right to be concerned, because he was a supporter of the government that allowed this situation to occur without any inquiry, without any show of real concern. This Government is concerned and it will do something about the situation as soon as we receive the report from the committee of inquiry. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall that when introducing the National Health Amendment Bill 1976 I stated that the provisions in the Bill would be fully discussed with registered health benefits organisations in view of the significance of the provisions for those organisations. At the time when the Bill was being debated I also gave an assurance that during the winter recess the provisions of the Bill would be carefully considered in the light of the comments made by honourable members and senators, and others, with the objective of achieving the most suitable arrangements for conducting private health insurance. The Bill before the House provides for further amendments to the National Health Act which the Government is proposing as a result of its discussions and deliberations during the winter recess. 
The Government is confident that the adjustments which have been made will assure smooth and more effective operation of the new arrangements when they take effect on 1 October. As has been stated by  Dr Catchlove,  speaking on behalf of the Australian Hospital Association, and I quote: 
The Government proposals for reorganising Medibank have, we believe, made the first real attempt to come to grips with the enormous escalation in health costs, while maintaining the principles of universal health insurance. 
There are a number of provisions in the Bill which introduce new proposals, which I will explain. One of these is clause 20, which includes in Part VI a new division, 1a- benefits for certain contributors to standard hospital benefits tables. The new division provides for the payment of a subsidy by the Commonwealth to registered hospital benefits organisations in respect of persons who contribute to the standard hospital benefits tables of registered organisations but not to the standard medical benefits tables. This covers the situation of people on low to medium incomes wishing to retain the choice of their own doctor while in hospital. This combination of Medibank standard cover by payment of the levy plus private insurance for hospital-only will be cheaper for people in the low to medium income range. 
When introducing the National Health Amendment Bill 1976 1 indicated to honourable members that the cost of this hospital-only insurance for a person remaining in Medibank standard was estimated at $ 135 a year or $2.60 a week- at the family rate- and would be payable in addition to the levy. When the contribution rates for Medibank private health insurance were being determined it became apparent that the family contribution rates for the standard hospital benefits tables would exceed $2.60 a week. It seemed likely that this would be the case with most other major organisations. 
Because of its concern to keep the cost of this type of insurance within the reach of those with low to medium incomes, the Government decided to give a subsidy to hold the family contribution rate to $2.60 a week and the single contribution rate to $1.30 a week. This level of hospital insurance will cover contributors for public hospital charges in shared ward accommodation where they choose to be treated by their own doctor. The maximum rates of Commonwealth subsidy are based on the difference between the contribution rates for the standard hospital benefits tables for privately insured persons in Medibank private and $1.30 a week for single rate contributors and $2.60 a week for family rate contributors. For the information of honourable members, privately insured persons are those who are covered for standard medical benefits and standard hospital benefits through registered organisations. 
The Bill also provides for the rates of $1.30 a week for single contributors and $2.60 a week for family contributors, and for the rates of Commonwealth subsidies, to be varied by regulations. Clause 13 of the Bill substitutes a new section, 73BB, which provides for the establishment and operation of reinsurance accounts by registered hospital benefits organisations. The decision to vary the existing reinsurance account provisions was made following discussions with representatives of registered health benefits organisations and the changes are designed to cause the arrangements to operate more equitably and efficiently. Basically, the reinsurance arrangements enable an organisation, after it has paid standard hospital benefits to a contributor for 35 days of hospitalisation in a year, to debit to its reinsurance account benefits payable to that contributor for the remainder of that year. The Bill provides for the reduction of the qualifying period from 60 days to 35 days. This does not, in any way, affect the benefits entitlement of any contributor. It will ensure that the $50m a year the Government has undertaken to pay towards the reinsurance arrangements will be utilised. Provision is made for the qualifying period to be varied by regulations. 
The new provision also varies from the existing section 73BB in the way in which it provides for a contribution year to be determined for the purposes of the reinsurance account. The section provides that where standard hospital benefits have been paid to a contributor for 35 days of hospitalisation in any year, the contribution year commences on the first benefit day unless that day falls within a previous contribution year. Special provisions covering special account contributors as at 30 September 1976 provide that where they attract hospital benefits for a continuous period of 35 days of hospitalisation from 27 August 1976, benefits in accordance with the standard table may be debited to the reinsurance account from 1 October 1976. In this case the contribution year for the contributor commences from 27 August 1976. Where a special account contributor has received hospital benefits for hospitalisation after 30 September 1975, benefits in accordance with the standard table may be debited to the reinsurance account on or after 1 October 1976 when the days attracting benefits first exceed thirty- five. In this case the year of the contributor commences on the first day of the days aggregating to the 35 days. 
As a result of the Government's decision that the Health Insurance Commission should operate registered hospital and medical benefits funds, it is not considered necessary for the Minister to have the power in all situations to direct an organisation to accept a person as a contributor. I believe that competition between organisations will render this unnecessary. However, it is considered that the Minister should have the power to direct an organisation to accept a person as a contributor, where he is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the person was not accepted as a contributor to a standard benefits table on health grounds. Clause 14 of the Bill provides for this change in the Minister's power of direction. 
Clause 17 of the Bill substitutes a new section 73d. The new provision is similar in objective to the repealed provision. It enables a registered organisation to request the Minister to direct that services or treatment of any kind, provided or arranged by the organisation, be treated as the payment of benefits in respect of those services or that treatment. The provision specifies the manner in which an organisation shall make the request and the action to be taken by the Minister upon receipt of such a request. The Bill, in clause 22, enables an application to be made by a registered organisation, for the Administrative Appeals Tribunal to review a direction, or refusal to give a direction, by the Minister under new section 73d. 
The Bill also provides for the repeal of the condition of registration, in sub-section ( 1 ) of section  73BA  of the Act, that organisations continue to provide benefits for contributors to standard tables for 2 months after the period in respect of which contributions have been paid. This provision was only necessary to enable levy relief certificates to be issued. The Bill provides, in its stead, for it to be a condition of registration that a contributor to a standard table, whose contributions have fallen into arrears, shall be entitled, within a period specified in the rules of the organisation, being a period of not less than 2 months, to pay the arrears of contributions and retain benefits entitlements. 
I would like also to draw the attention of honourable members to clause 3 of the Bill which substitutes new definitions of 'the standard hospital benefits table' and 'the standard medical benefits table'. The definitions have been varied to relate the benefits payable in accordance with these tables to the fees and charges applying in the States in which contributors receive treatment. The changes ensure that appropriate benefits are payable where a contributor or a dependant of a contributor incurs expenses while temporarily absent from his normal State of residence. A further amendment to these definitions enables regulations to be made prescribing additional benefits to be paid from the standard tables. This power is already contained in existing sub-section (2) of section  73BA.  However the amendment limits the scope of the prescribing power to the standard tables. A consequential amendment is made in clause 12 which omits sub-section (2) of section 73ba. 
Clause 5 of the Bill amends section 57b to broaden the eligibility criteria for Commonwealth additional nursing home benefits. The purpose of the amendment is to enable these benefits to be payable in respect of all eligible persons, other than those who are privately insured in both the standard medical and hospital benefits tables. This amendment will mean that people entitled to the benefits of Medibank public will be entitled to these benefits and will remove an anomaly in the existing legislation. The Bill includes a number of technical amendments relating to references to dependants of contributors. These amendments are necessitated by the inclusion, by the National Health Amendment Act 1976 in section 4, of a revised definition of 'contributor' which does not include a reference to dependants of contributors. The amendments in the Bill cause provisions where appropriate to apply to dependants of contributors as well as to contributors. 
Clause 23 of the Bill amends the Eighth Schedule to the Act by the substitution of a new table incorporating variations made to that table by regulations. The amendment has effect from 1 February 1976, the date of effect of the regulations. The amendment of the table in the Eighth Schedule is a statutory requirement authorised by section 55c of the National Health Act The Bill also provides for the continuation of Commonwealth payments in respect of late claims lodged by contributors to any organisations deregistered, with effect from 1 October 1976, under the transitional provisions in section 42 of the National Health Amendment Act 1976.  Mr Acting Speaker,  I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill includes provisions relating to the payment of medical benefits for pathology services and to the hospital agreements between the Commonwealth and the States. The provisions relating to the payment of medical benefits for pathology services are based on recommendations of the pathology services working party established by the Government in April 1976. They are designed to curb the use of the medical benefits system to finance the rendering of unnecessary pathology services and to curb high Medibank expenditure on pathology services. It is proposed that the existing levels of benefits should continue to be payable where: Pathology items are rendered by a recognised specialist pathologist, at the request of another practitioner; the number of items performed does not exceed three; and the person in respect of whom the items are rendered was not at the time they were requested a private patient or outpatient of a recognised hospital. 
The Bill provides for lower benefits to be payable where pathology items are rendered by recognised pathologists other than in the circumstances I have described or are rendered by other medical practitioners. The lower benefits are to be calculated on fees equivalent to 75 per cent of the schedule fees for the 3 most expensive items, of the items determined during one day by a practitioner to be necessary for a patient. Where the number of items performed in either of the circumstances to which I have referred exceeds three, the Bill provides for benefits for the items, other than the 3 most expensive items, to be calculated on fees equivalent to 20 per cent of the fees that would otherwise apply. 
The payment of lower rates of benefits for items in excess of three recognises the lower pro rata costs, particularly overheads, involved in performing a larger number of items. However it is envisaged that there will be cases where it is inappropriate to apply the reduction principle and provision is made in the Bill to enable the Minister to direct that it be not applied in particular cases. To assist in the achievement of the objectives of these provisions the Bill further provides that the recognised pathologist rendering the pathology service as a result of a request must include on his account or receipt, or on the assignment of benefits form, where the doctor enters into such an arrangement with the patient, the name of the requesting practitioner and the date on which the request was made. Where the service was rendered otherwise than as a result of a request, the medical practitioner must include on one of the documents to which I have just referred a statement that, on a specified date, he determined that the services were necessary. The Bill provides that medical benefits are not payable unless these details are supplied. 
It is proposed that other changes based on recommendations of the Pathology Services Working Party be introduced from 1 January 1977, after final details have been determined and the legislation approved by Parliament. In view of the effective and representative participation of the medical profession in developing these revised arrangements, I anticipate that high quality pathology services will continue to be available throughout Australia and that the lower levels of fees for benefits purposes contemplated by the proposals will be generally accepted. 
I wish to turn now to the provisions in the Bill relating to hospital agreements between the 
Commonwealth and the States. The Bill provides for the Commonwealth to enter into agreements with the States, on revised bases, for and in relation to the provision of hospital services. The purpose of the Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to enter into agreements with the States on the revised bases under which the Commonwealth will share with the States the net operating costs of recognised hospitals. The Government proposes that the agreements should come into operation in respect of periods commencing on 1 October 1976 as the States Grants (Hospital Operating Costs) Act 1976 applies only in respect of periods up to 30 September 1976. The Bill provides for the repeal of Schedule 2 to the Health Insurance Act 1973, which sets out heads of Agreement and for a new schedule to be substituted. The heads of agreement set out in the new schedule have been determined following discussions with representatives of all State Governments. 
The Government has been concerned at the open ended nature of the Commonwealth's financial commitment under the hospital cost sharing arrangements. It considers that it should have an adequate knowledge of, and opportunity to express its views on, the ways in which the costs it is to share are incurred and the need for them to be incurred. Head 5 in Schedule 2 in the Bill provides for a mechanism to be included in the Agreements which will meet the Commonwealth 's needs in these respects. It is envisaged that the committees established to give effect to that head will comprise Commonwealth and State officials and that the budgets and variations to the budgets formulated by the committees will be subject to approval by the Commonwealth Minister for Health and the relevant State Minister. 
Head 4, which is subject to Head 5, provides for the Commonwealth to meet 50 per cent of the net operating costs of recognised hospitals in a State during the period of the Agreement or an amount equal to the total of the amounts paid by the State from its own resources towards meeting those costs, whichever is the less. This was the basis for cost sharing in the former invalid agreements and the Government proposes that it be retained with the safeguards against open.endedness that will be provided in giving effect to Head 5. 
The Heads also provide for all eligible persons, other than privately insured persons, to be entitled to receive, free of charge, care and treatment as hospital patients in recognised hospitals. Such persons are also to be entitled to receive, free of charge, outpatient services at recognised hospitals, other than particular services. The heads do not prevent an agreement from providing for privately insured persons to receive such care and treatment and outpatient services free of charge. The Government has advised the States that it sees this as a matter for decision by each State. I wish to remind honourable members that a privately insured person in this context is a person who is covered for benefits in accordance with both the standard hospital benefits table and the standard medical benefits table operated by health insurance organisations registered under the National Health Act. 
I also wish to draw the attention of honourable members to Head 9 which permits particular outpatient services to be subject to a means test, or charges, or both a means test and charges. This Head has been included to give recognition to a situation that existed under the former invalid agreements whereby some States applied means tests or raised charges in respect of a small range of outpatient services such as dental services and those States intend to continue those arrangements. It is the firm intention of the Government that the range of services in this category should remain small and that the general principles relating to the provision of outpatient services should not be eroded. 
The Bill, at the request of the States, provides for the repeal of provisions in the Act which authorise the making of daily bed payments of $16 a day to recognised hospitals. Amounts equivalent to these payments will be included in the Commonwealth payments to the States under the agreements. The Bill also provides for payments under the Act to recognised hospitals in the Territories to reflect the change in the financing of recognised hospitals in the States. Accordingly, it provides for daily bed payments to such hospitals to be discontinued. The daily bed payments of $16 a day will continue to be payable to private hospitals. Provision has also been made in the Bill for the validation of Commonwealth payments made in accordance with the former invalid agreements. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Government announced during June 1976 its decision that the Health Insurance Commission should be authorised to carry on private health insurance business in competition with the private health insurance organisations registered under the National Health Act. The Bill before the House provides for the Commission to perform this role. The Bill provides for the functions of the Commission to include conducting medical benefits funds and hospital benefits funds. It further provides that the Commission, in carrying out this new role as a registered organisation under the National Health Act, shall be subject to all the provisions of that Act and regulations relating to the conduct of medical and hospital benefits funds by registered organisations. The Commission therefore will have the same rights and obligations under the National Health Act and regulations as other registered organisations. 
The Government proposes that to the greatest extent practicable the Commission should use the same staff, buildings and equipment in carrying out its private health insurance functions as it uses for its other functions. The Bill provides for it to be a duty of the Commission to do this. However, it is important, in view of the Commission's competitive role, that the costs associated with its operating medical and hospital benefits funds be clearly identified. It is also important that the Commission should not gain a competitive advantage due to its being exempt from taxation by virtue of its being a statutory authority. The Bill therefore provides for the Commission to determine, and whenever appropriate, re-determine, principles in accordance with which it is to apportion to its private health insurance functions and its other functions, costs related to its functions as a whole, such as salaries. These principles are to be subject to approval by the Minister for Health who shall consider the advice of the Auditor-General in relation to the principles before approving them. 
The Bill further provides for the Commission to determine notional amounts of expenditure it would have incurred in respect of its private health insurance functions had it not been an authority of the Commonwealth and exempt from taxation. Examples of these costs that private health insurers have to meet are payroll tax, sales tax, stamp duty and rates. The amounts determined are to be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
The Bill further provides that the Minister may pay amounts to a State, a State authority or local government body equivalent to the amounts which he considers would have been payable to them in connection with the Commission's private health insurance operations had the Commission not been an authority of the Commonwealth and exempt from taxation. The principles for apportioning costs together with any changes in those principles from the previous year, and the principles for determining the notional costs, are to be set out, by way of a note, to the annual financial statements of the Commission. This will ensure that a statement of the principles will form part of the annual financial statements and accordingly will be subject to the scrutiny of the Auditor-General. 
Separate financial statements are to be prepared, in the form approved by the Treasurer, for the Commission's private health insurance operations and its other functions. The whole of the Commission's financial activities are to be audited by the Auditor-General. The Commission is to submit its annual financial statements to the Auditor-General before submitting them to the Minister and the Auditor-General is to report on the statements to the Minister. Copies of the annual report of the Commission together with the financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on the statements are to be tabled in each House of the Parliament. 
The Bill provides for the financial separation of the Commission 's private health insurance operations to be reinforced by providing for the Commission to maintain separate bank accounts for those operations from 1 April 1977. The commencing date of 1 April 1977 provides a period during which the Commission will be making the necessary administrative arrangements. There is provision in the Bill for the Commission to receive capital advances out of moneys appropriated by the Parliament to enable it to establish and conduct its private health insurance operations. An amount of $ 10m has been included in the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1976-77 for this purpose. The Bill before the House also provides for the Commission to borrow moneys with the approval of the Treasurer for its private health insurance operations and for it to invest moneys standing to the credit of its hospital and medical benefits funds. 
Provision is made for the Treasurer at his discretion to guarantee the repayment by the Commission of amounts it borrows. The Government 's intention is that the Treasurer would provide such guarantees only in the early years of the Commission's private health insurance operations before it has built up reserves which it could give as security for its borrowings. It is not intended that the guarantees should be used to enable the Commission to borrow on more favourable terms than are generally available. 
I consider that the framework within which the Government proposes the Commission to operate as a registered health insurance organisation will enable it to compete on equal terms with other registered organisations. There are indications already that it will be a strong competitor. It has been alleged in some quarters that some registered organisations have reacted to the competition from the Commission by utilising reserves to enable them to undercut the Commission 's contribution rates. It must surely be a good thing if the entry of the Commission into the field results in the utilisation of excess reserves in the interests of contributors in this way. I would hope that a longer term effect will be to cause all registered organisations to attempt to manage their operations with greater economy and efficiency and to be mindful of their principal objective which must be the welfare of their contributors. 
I believe that the staff of the Commission has built a reputation for courteous and efficient service to its clients. I wish to pay tribute to the staff for the significant part it has played in the success of the Medibank program. It is expected that the great majority of those choosing to contribute for private insurance will do so at the basic, or standard table level. I consider that with the reputation for service that the Commission has achieved, it will be highly competitive in this area. 
I wish to draw the attention of honourable members to one other provision in the Bill. The Bill provides for the repeal of existing Part Ha of the Act which provides for persons to be exempted from the health insurance levy by becoming Medibank contributors. These provisions have become redundant as a result of the proposal to introduce individual and family levy ceilings.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by Br Cass) adjourned. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) No precise estimates can be provided of the percentages of pensioners within specific electorates. For planning purposes my Department has prepared a table giving estimates of the numbers of pensioners within the Commonwealth electoral divisions as at 30 June 1973, and this table is available on request from my Department. The estimates in this table are based on post-code areas which have been related as far as possible to electoral divisions. 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics does not prepare estimates of the population in electoral divisions for the years in which no census is conducted. It is therefore not possible to relate my Department's estimates of the numbers of age pensioners in electoral divisions to Bureau of Census population estimates for electoral divisions for the intercensal years. 
) The Government recently announced a three year program costing $225m to provide aged persons' accommodation. The allocation of these funds will be on the basis of need and will have regard to the proportion of aged people in the area concerned. 
Under the States Grants (Home Care) Act, funds are provided to State Governments to assist towards housekeeping services for the aged, senior citizens' centres and the salaries of welfare officers employed in association with senior citizens' centres. The Budget allocation this financial year is $1 1.7m, an increase of almost 89 per cent over the previous year's Budget allocation. 1 976-77 is the first year of a three program for Senior Citizens' Centres announced by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech and the Department of Social Security will be conferring with State Government authorities to prepare priority lists for funding purposes. 
Special travel arrangements have traditionally been a matter for State Authorities and the Federal Government has found over the years that the best way in which it can assist all pensioners in this regard is to provide across the board increases in pensions. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to the 3-year program of accommodation for aged or disabled persons. 
Let us be clear that Medibank Private is competing very effectively with the private health insurance funds in the table which will be taken by 80 per cent of the Australian people who insure themselves. That is the shared ward accommodation rate. In most instances Medibank Private is within 10c or 20c a week of the competing larger private funds. Certainly, some of the smaller funds in some States have undercut by much greater amounts. It is not for the Government to tell Medibank Private where it shall set its rates. It is an independent commercial private insurance fund competing with other funds in a competitive sense. The Government decided that Medibank Private would compete on fair and equal terms and that where there were charges such as rates, stamp duties or payroll tax these would be taken into account in assessing the premiums payable by people who insure with Medibank Private. The Government also decided that where those notional estimates should be directed to State or local government authorities they will in fact be so directed rather than be lumped in with Consolidated Revenue. 
I repeat that Medibank Private is very competitive. It has set a bench mark for private insurance premiums in this country and if it is forcing the other private insurance funds to use their reserves to try to undercut by a few cents a week, I make no apology for that because I believe that it is making the other funds return to contributors some of the reserves of funds which have been taken from them over the years. I believe that Medibank Private in the long term will be a strong competitor indeed. I wish that members of the Opposition would get right behind 
Medibank Private and do what the honourable member for Hindmarsh has done, what  Mr Hawke  has done, what the Prime Minister has done and what the Minister for Health has done: Join Medibank Private and get behind it. 
The answer to that question is yes. We welcome competition. We welcome free enterprise in the truest sense. There has not been as much competition in the area of private health insurance as perhaps there could have been until the entry of Medibank Private. We will not do anything which will limit the capacity of the private health insurance funds to exercise the greatest possible efficiency in order to compete effectively with Medibank Private. To ensure that there will be fair competition the Government decided that all charges that the private health insurance funds have to meet in the States would be the subject of a notional deduction from Medibank Private and this would be reflected in the premiums that the funds could offer the Australian people. There will be free competition. We welcome free competition as part of our general concept of and belief in free enterprise. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The only local governing body currently receiving assistance under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act is the Mordialloc City Council (Victoria). The assistance provided to date comprises (a) grants for the purchase and renovation of a building, (b) grants for the purchase of necessary furniture and equipment and (c) a subsidy for payment of food and accommodation. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The value and number of projects for which grants were made under the Aged Persons Hostels Act in each State are as follows: 
July to December 1975 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A working party established by the 1975 Australian Health Ministers' Conference has met with representatives of the following sections of the liquor industry to discuss the voluntary advertising code applicable to the whole liquor industry: 
a ) The Australian Associated Brewers 
b ) The Australian Hotels Association 
The Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Council of Australia Inc. 
The Wholesale Spirits Merchants' Association of Australia. 
Yes. 
No authoritative information is available about this question. Such information would have to be obtained by a survey of alcohol advertising. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. I am advised that the procedure referred to by Drs Mathieson and Gardiner related to the quarantine arrangements in operation for untreated timber, the only timber which represents a quarantine risk. Properly treated and certificated timber presents no quarantine risk. Quarantine approval is granted for the importation of treated timber on the basis of documentation accompanying the shipment. Procedures call for random check inspections to be undertaken to ensure that treatment and certificates are in order. Treated timber could not be regarded as a special import in quarantine terms. The statement by Drs Mathieson and Gardiner seems appropriate in the context in which it was made. 
See (2) above. 
Commonwealth Government Receipts and Expenditure  (Question No. 861)  Dr Klugman  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total of (a) current expenditure and (b) capital expenditure, and what were the total receipts of the Commonwealth Government in (i) 1974-75 and (ii) 1975-76. 
What was the total of (a) current expenditure and (b) capital expenditure, and what were the total receipts of all Australian Governments, i.e. Commonwealth, State and Local, in (i) 1974-75 and (ii) 1975-76. 
What proportion of capital expenditure by the Commonwealth Government was financed by (a) borrowing and (b) all deficit financing transactions in (i) 1974-75 and (ii) 1975-76. 
What proportion of capital expenditure by all Australian Governments was financed by (a) borrowing, excluding lending by the Commonwealth to State and Local Governments, and (b) all deficit financing transactions in (i) 1974-75 and (ii) 1975-76. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Those people who insure for private accommodation in a hospital are entitled to receive accommodation in a private room in a private hospital or in a private room in a public hospital. The honourable member for Cunningham makes a point which is valid in respect to some of the States which are moving to remove private ward accommodation in public hospitals. I take the point that there will be some difficulty on some occasions in respect of patients who have privately insured for private rooms in public hospitals. I believe that this could be so in New South Wales. Those people who have taken out the higher table of insurance for single room or private room accommodation will still be entitled to receive private room accommodation in private hospitals, particularly for elective surgery, when these rooms become available. 
-Head 5, to which the honourable member refers, is consistent with the Prime Minister's undertaking to the Premiers at the Premiers' Conference in June. It is consistent with the spirit of the discussions I have had with the State Ministers for Health on 2 occasions and it is consistent with the discussions my officers have had with State officers during the winter recess. The principle of the understanding with the Statesthe States have agreed to this- is that we establish joint committees with each State and those joint committees will meet in March to formulate budgets for the operating costs of the hospitals in the respective States. The joint committees will meet again in November to review the progress, consider unforeseen circumstances and take into account any retrospective variations that may occur. It will be necessary after the November meetings to obtain mutual approval of ministers for any variations to the budgets that were agreed to at the meeting earlier this year. The only limitation is as to the extent that we have agreement with the States on their budgets and variations to those budgets. We did not want to hold the States to a fixed budget that was approved of earlier in the year. We clearly understood- I would have thought the States would have understood this- that in the course of a year there will be variations to those budgets due to escalations in salaries, the costs of medical supplies and household items. 
At no time have we said that we would not meet 50 per cent of the approved operating costs, but it will require mutual agreement on the budgets and certainly on variations to those budgets. It was not possible to obtain the spirit of that intention unless Head 5 was worded in the way it is worded. Officers of my Department are in the process of negotiating with the States on the agreements, which will, of course, be binding upon the Commonwealth and the States. It is in the agreements that we will write in the details in respect of the undertakings that we have given to the State Premiers. 
I want to quote from the 1976-77 Budget speech that was made by the Premier of Victoria in which he made the position very clear. I have not heard from the Premier of Victoria. I do not know that Victoria is opposed to what we are doing, but the Premier did refer to the State standing committee comprised of Commonwealth and State officers to be established under the new Medibank arrangements with the responsibility of checking and recommending budgets of recognised hospitals for each financial year and of reviewing those budgets at appropriate intervals during the course of the year. The Premier went on to say that where actual expenditures or receipts differ significantly from the approved budget estimates an investigation is to be made. So there is a clear understanding on his part of the arrangements we have made. But Head 5 of the agreement is in accordance with our undertaking that we will require the joint committees, firstly, to formulate the budgets early in the year and, secondly, to approve any variations to those budgets later in the year. 
At a conference of Health Ministers some 2 years ago a working party was established to examine ways and means of limiting the advertising of cigarettes in journals and newspapers. It is entirely a matter for the States to determine restrictions on this sort of advertising in journals in the States. The States themselves have not been prepared at this stage to take the action that was, I think, recommended by the working party. In respect of banning advertisements in articles registered for transmission through the post, this is a matter that has not been considered by the Government and what is more, it is outside my jurisdiction. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
There is no substance to the allegations. Field officers enter a pensioner's home on invitation only. They have no authority to search the premises. 
The Social Service Act defines a widow, for the purpose of qualifying for widow's pension, in the following manner 'widow 'includes- 
a dependent female; 
a deserted wife; 
a woman whose marriage has been dissolved and who has not remarried; 
a woman whose husband is a mental hospital patient; and 
a woman whose husband has been convicted of an offence and is imprisoned and has been imprisoned for a period of not less than six months, including any period of imprisonment prior to and continuous with a period of imprisonment following upon the conviction. but does not include a woman who is living with a man as his wife on a bona fide domestic basis although not legally married to him. 
My Press Statement of 21 June 1976 was directed to Field Officer activity. In that statement I said, among other things: 'There has been no change in policy in regard to this matter since the change of government in December 1 975. The policy has always been to investigate cases where information is received- whether from the beneficiary or from some other source- that a de facto marriage relationship may exist.' 'If I am advised of any unwarranted intrusion into the private lives of people concerned with my Department, I will be the first to condemn such intrusion. ' 
Number of Electoral Divisions in Each State  (Question No.  992) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Eligible organisations under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act are paid the following subsidies: 
25 cents for every meal served to a homeless Minister for whom accommodation is not provided on that day; 
75 cents per person for each day on which food and accommodation are provided. 
These rates have been operative since the commencement of the Act on 1 3 December 1 974. 
The Minister for Social. Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) The published preliminary results of the 1974-75 Household Expenditure Survey, which was undertaken by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, do not contain separate expenditure details relating to age pensioners between the age of 65 and 69 years. The only information available that may possibly provide an indication of the likely expenditure patterns for this group, relates to average weekly household expenditure where the age of the head of the household is 65 years and over. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) and the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill (No. 2), as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I suppose we could indulge in a name guessing game. I suppose it could be regarded as a matter of pure semantics to engage in a debate on what we call Medibank, whether it be called 'Medibank Private' or 'Medibank benefits fund and hospital benefits fund'. I do not see any value in extending the name - 
Consideration interrupted. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 18 February 1976 I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(1)- 
July to December 1975. 
-I would like to remind the honourable member for Brisbane and the House- I would ask all honourable members to remind their constituents of this- that by 1 October, people must make up their minds regarding health insurance. Those people who wish to insure privately with the private health funds to which the honourable member referred will have to obtain levy exemption certificates in order to be exempt from payment of the  2Yi  per cent taxation levy. Having said that, I should state that since becoming the Minister for Health I have heard reports that some funds have been slow in the payment of benefits from time to time. This is not to say that they have not been efficient. By and large, the record of the private health insurance funds has been very good. Where there has been slowness in payment, it has been due largely to the investigations that have been necessary because insufficient information was supplied with the refund application. However, I believe that the payment of benefits by private health insurance funds as from 1 October will be far more expeditious than has been the case in the past because of the renewed competition that will exist between Medibank Standard, Medibank Private and the funds themselves. I can assure the honourable member that Medibank Private will be attempting to expedite its payment of benefits to its members and to provide courtesy and efficiency in its service. I believe that the private funds generally will also be efficient and that we will see real efficiency in private health insurance in Australia. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
I would like to restate the purposes of this Bill. It is to extend the effective operation of the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972-74 to enable grants to be made to the aged persons hostel projects for which applications have been lodged but which, for one reason of another, could not be commenced within the time limits imposed by the Act. It provides for the time limit of 12 months to run from the date on which a grant is actually approved. I have been advised that the Government's decision to reimburse organisations for expenditure incurred on the preliminary planning of deferred projects constitutes a grant within the meaning of the Act. As these reimbursements commenced approximately 12 months ago, organisations could lose their entitlements if work were not commenced shortly. This is not possible in the majority of cases. To overcome this problem, it is necessary, therefore, to amend clause 4 of the Bill. 
Another difficulty that is being experienced is that approvals already given to preserve the eligibility of organisations for a grant are in respect of buildings to be constructed on a specific site. Because many grants have been deferred due to the unavailability of funds, some organisations have relinquished their options to purchase or otherwise acquire the sites selected for their hostels. Most of these organisations plan to construct hostels on alternative sites but the original approval cannot be varied to enable this to be done under the present legislation. The amendments are therefore designed to correct the situation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I want to answer a couple of the points that have been made tonight in respect to the reinsurance pool. Quite clearly there is a misunderstanding of what the re-insurance pool is all about. It is an entirely different concept from the special account system which was an open-ended arrangement, one that the former Government lived with and one that is in operation at the present time. Our estimates were that in this financial year the special account would have cost Commonwealth revenue something of the order of $ 100m. It was decided to develop an entirely different concept in respect to trying to assist subscribers. It is not just the health insurance funds; it is also the subscribers to those funds who choose to insure privately for hospital cover and for the right of choice. They represent 70 per cent of the Australian people. What we have tried to do is to minimise the impact of chronic illness on the level of premiums that 70 per cent; of the Australian people will have to pay. After 35 days of illness, those privately insured patients in hospitals will have their benefits liability transferred from the funds to the re-insurance pool. 
-To try to ease the impact of chronic illness and the cost of chronic illness upon 70 per cent of the Australian contributors. It is all very well for honourable members opposite to say that this will be in favour of the health insurance funds. It is in favour of the contributors to those funds. What honourable members opposite do not seem to understand is that the reinsurance pool concept is there to equalise within registered organisations the experience they have in regard to long term or heavier uses of hospital services. I believe this to be a real social step forward from the special account arrangement because we will no longer deny benefits to people due to pre-existing illness or chronic, illness. So it is an entirely different concept from the special account arrangement. I think that that needs to be understood. 
-I have made my point. The other arrangement- the special account arrangementwas  an  open-ended one. We never knew from one year to the next what it would cost the Australian taxpayers. Under this arrangement, we have made a fixed subsidy of $50m for this financial year, That amount will be put into the reinsurance pool to be spread amongst the health insurance funds. Thus, any fund which has a higher percentage of chronically ill contributors will not suffer as a consequence. The impact of the cost of chronically ill people who are insured privately will be spread right across the funds generally through the reinsurance pool system. 
The premiums could be considerably higher. Does the honourable member want 70 per cent of the Australian people to be paying more premiums? Is that his intention? Does he want to see people paying more for health insurance? Opposition members do not believe in choice. They do not want people to have a right to insure privately. Let us be frank about that. Quite clearly, what they tried to introduce into Australia was a universal insurance system under which nobody had any ruddy choice at all. That was quite clearly what the former Labor Government was up to. It is not the style and philosophy of this Government. Let that be clearly understood, too. 
We have extended the subsidy to the lowest income people and to those people who have privately insured, particularly the chronically ill. That is where our subsidy has gone. Let nobody deny that fact. It applies just as simply to the hospital-only insurance. There has been a lot of belly-aching about the $ 15m or the $12m that we are making available to those people in New South Wales who earn less than $10,500 a year. Let it be understood, too, that 30 per cent of the pensioners in this country are privately insured. What we have done has been to structure a hospital-only premium rate which is within the reach of those people to maintain their choice of doctor if they so wish. We make no apology for that. The actuaries went to work and found that the cost of that sort of insurance would be greater than we at first thought. We said it would cost a person $135 a year. Honourable members opposite say it was an expensive mistake. We have tried to keep premiums within the reach of the pensioners and the low income people of this country, many of whom have private health insurance. 
I think honourable members opposite have indulged themselves in quite an exposition of what they are all about. I thought it was just by accident that Australia plunged itself into the worst possible unemployment situation during the 3 years of Labor Government. I thought it was just an accident that the under-privileged and the disadvantaged people suffered under a Labor Government. But listening to the talk from honourable members opposite tonight, I am starting to believe that there is something sinister in their general approach to humanity. One does wonder. 
The Government rejects out of hand this amendment to take us back to what would be a worse situation. After total examination of the situation with the private health insurance funds, we realised that if we had left the qualifying period at 60 days it was likely that the full value of that subsidy to those people who are privately insured would not be used in a full year. There is no way in the world in which the Government would be prepared to accept this amendment. I hope the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has understood what the reinsurance pool is all about. I hope he understands that the concept involves justice for 70 per cent of the Australian people who seek private insurance. 
First of all, I want to give a complete undertaking. I want to make it perfectly clear that the Government intends to honour its undertaking to the States in that it will meet 50 per cent of the approved net operating costs of the hospitals. But we are not prepared- nor should we be; and I do not think the States generally want us to be-to be involved in an openended arrangement whereby we simply meet  carte blanche  50 per cent of the operating costs of the hospitals. It has been against that background that we have been negotiating with the States to set up machinery that would enable us to reach a situation in which the net operating costs of hospitals are approved. So the States have agreed to the establishment of joint Commonwealth-State officials committees which will meet within each State each March to formulate and draw up budgets for approval by that committee and for recommendation to the respective Commonwealth and State Ministers. The Committee will meet again in November to have a look at the progress of those budgets and to take into account retrospective increases which could have occurred in salaries, or increases in household items or medical supplies. Honourable members will note that this head, which will not be as important as the agreements themselves, is flexibly worded. The wording needs to be flexible when one is drawing up agreements with separate States. It states: 
. the agreement may - the emphasis is on ' may ' make provision for limiting the obligation of the Commonwealth referred to in paragraph 4. 
It goes on to say:  it may authorise the Minister to approve further payments under the provision made in accordance with paragraph 4 where he is satisfied that circumstances justify those payments. 
The establishment of a State standing committee in respect of each State is an innovation designed to enable the Commonwealth to have an adequate knowledge of, and opportunity to give expression to its views on, the ways in which the costs it is to share are incurred and the need for them to be incurred. The Government was concerned, as I said earlier, about the open-ended nature of the previous agreements. In discussions with the States leading to the proposed new agreements, the Government sought a method by which the Commonwealth and each State could reach agreement on the costs of operating recognised hospitals as such. To have worded the head in any other way would have made a complete charade of the intention. The States know now, I am sure, that it is the agreements to which they must turn their attention to ensure that we will meet 50 per cent of the approved net operating costs and the approved variations therefrom. I have been in touch with a number of the State Ministers concerned and discussions are going on at the present time. I have reason to believe that they will accept this position. The other point that was raised by the honourable member for Oxley was in respect of head 8. 
MrHayden-Head 12. 
Did you not refer to head 8 in a general sense? 
Head 12 is subject to the other heads. Fees cannot be raised in situations inconsistent with the other heads. That is a machinery clause which has relevance to head 8, under which a State may if it so desires, impose a charge for the use of inpatient or outpatient services by privately insured people. I think that only one or two States are contemplating imposing a charge on privately insured people who use outpatient services. I want to make it perfectly clear that the Commonwealth is adopting a flexible attitude with the States in regard to this matter. Quite clearly, the Queensland Government will not charge for any services rendered to outpatients; nor will it charge any patients, whether they be insured or not insured, for public ward accommodation. 
That is what I am guaranteeing. It is a machinery head in relation to head 8 which really only takes into account the right of a State to impose a charge for the use of a hospital service on a person who is privately insured. 
No patient in that category will be charged for the use of that hospital, unless it is a compensation case or something like that. I give that undertaking. I know that the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  would have a keen interest in this matter. I have already spoken to his brother, the Minister for Health in New South Wales, about the matter - 
Yes. I want to make it perfectly clear to honourable members opposite and to honourable members on this side of the chamber that the Government is bound to its undertaking that it will meet 50 per cent of the approved net operating costs of the hospitals in the States. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Third Reading 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Hunt)-by  leave-read a third time. 
To restate what I have just said, the Government cannot see any value in extending the name into a 7-word mouthful- 'Medibank benefits fund and hospital benefits fund'. We feel that 'Medibank Private' expresses simply the meaning of what is the private part of Medibank. So we see no great value in the amendments. I would just like to say that we see tremendous value in the decision we have taken to allow Medibank to offer private insurance. We believe it has extended the scope of its operations. It will ensure that everybody in Australia who wishes to remain identified with Medibank or remain in Medibank can do so, whether they are satisfied to receive standard benefits or whether they wish to insure themselves privately with Medibank. The decision was taken basically because of a wish expressed by a considerable percentage of the Australian community. It was certainly expressed to us by the trade union movement which felt that the Australian people, or a percentage of them, who wished to stay with Medibank should have that right to do so. I believe that we have satisfied the wish of a section of the Australian population. 
I believe also that Medibank Private will provide a bench-mark for premiums for private insurance. I believe that it will introduce a new element of competition into private health insurance in Australia. I have no doubt that it will capture a reasonable percentage of the market in the first year of its operation. I have no doubt about the enthusiasm and the efficiency of the staff of Medibank itself. I wish it every success and I hope it does play an important and competitive part in private health insurance in 
Australia. I do not say this to detract in any way from the many successful private organisations that have been in operation in Australia for many years, and there are a great number of them including the friendly societies and Blue Cross organisations. I think it will in the longer term be to the total advantage of people in Australia who wish to insure themselves against some of the health costs which may confront them. The Government does not accept the amendments moved by the Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following the discovery of Khapra beetle in the 'Catherine S', all cargo that had been located in the infested holds was traced and inspected. A consignment of viscose yarn from one of these holds had been delivered to Bruck Mills, Wangaratta. On inspection at the premises, one larva and two cast skins were found in the wrapping. The wrapping and cartons were destroyed and the area sprayed. 
I will regard the question as being on notice, particularly that part in relation to the child care aspect. I know that the Minister for Social Security is currently having discussions with her State counterparts in respect to the child care program, which also includes pre-schools. As to the figure that the honourable member used- I think it was 75 per cent - 
I think it is quite inaccurate but I will obtain details from the honourable member later in the day. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In the Division of Batman as at 1 September 1976 there were twelve premises approved by my Department as nursing homes under either the National Health Act or the Nursing Homes Assistance Act. 
The names of these nursing homes are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, but officers of my Department have been aware of the presence of the West Indian dry wood termite in Queensland since 1966. 
No. 
(a) The West Indian dry wood termite is considered to be indigenous to the West Indies and the Caribbean and is now established in South and Central America, United States of America, Canada, China, Midway Island, Fiji, England, South Africa, Sierra Leone, New Caledonia, Easter Island and Queensland. 
The initial detection was at Maryborough in 1966. Limited surveys have found infestations at Bundaberg, Maryborough and some nearby localities. More recently it has been detected generally in Brisbane. 
It not known how or when this insect arrived in Australia. Recent investigations suggest that it has been in Australia for a considerable time, arriving in Queensland perhaps during World War II. This is the only State where it is known to be established. 
The Commonwealth Government has assisted the Queensland Government to fumigate premises found to be infested. 
The insect has been in Australia for many years. Since World War II, Commonwealth Governments have repeatedly strengthened quarantine inspections and treatments for all imported timber commodities. Through diligent enforcement of the regulations the presence of the insect has been confined to Queensland. 
Khapra Beetle (Question No. 84S) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The infestation was found following a report that insects had infected a consignment of cocoa butter to Red Tulip, Prahran. 
Yes. 
The vessel had not been inspected. 
Yes. Sixteen separate consignments were inspected on discharge at Sydney without detecting Khapra beetle. Subsequent to the location of the pest in Melbourne, cocoa butter at the Syndey importer's premises was inspected but no Khapra beetle was detected. 
Fumigation of all the cargo holds on the  Catherine S  was ordered. An extensive and comprehensive programme was immediately launched to trace the cargo discharged from infested holds of the  Catherine S  at Melbourne. Treatments were carried out at 13 premises in the metropolitan area of Melbourne. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (4) Permanent quarantine officers at Gladstone are: 
DrJ. A.McGree 
DrM. D. McGree 
DrE. M. Richardson 
Each of these doctors is a private practitioner.  Dr J.  A. McGree was injured in July, 1975 whilst boarding a ship in Gladstone port on quarantine duties. He is not yet able to resume the full duties of the position. 
Temporary appointments are: 

 Mr A. I. Armstrong appointment expiring December 1976. 

 Mr C. H. Ballard appointment expiring December 1976. 
Messrs Armstrong and Ballard are permanent officers of the Department of Health. 
No. 
The family planning program is intended to run until 30 September with the health program grants that have been made available to assist the family planning associations with their clinical activities. The Government has decided to maintain those health program grants until 30 June 1977. Those people who are privately insured for services will be charged a fee and will be able to claim on their various health insurance funds. Also, in this year's Budget, we have set aside a sum of $750,000 to be made available to the States for their non-clinical expenditures. We are continuing discussions with the States as to how these funds should be spent in order to maintain the family planning program throughout Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I indicated in my answer to question No. 116  (Hansard,  25 May 1976, Page 2444), the nitrogen content of a food is used as an analytical specification of protein content. In other words, the protein content of the food can be determined chemically from its nitrogen content. Nitrogen content is readily quantified in the laboratory. 
As the honourable member implies, protein levels in flour may vary in different areas of Australia. I understand that, to achieve the minimum standard of 2.7 per cent nitrogen applicable to all protein increased bread, bakers use either premium protein increased flour or add wheat gluten. 
In the case of cereal products such as bread, the protein content is calculated by multiplying the nitrogen content by 5.7. This test is the accepted scientific method of determination of protein content. For these reasons it is clear that the analytical specification referred to provides an effective method of assessment of the protein levels in bread. 
I am informed that inspectors of the State Health Departments visit bakeries regularly to check that all bread, including milk bread, conforms with the relevant Food Regulations in force in the particular State. The National Health and Medical Research Council Market Basket Survey does not check composition standards of foods but monitors the Australian diet for the presence of pesticide residues and certain heavy metals. 
I am informed that prosecutions have been made in relation to this matter. 
The standard of 4 per cent non-fat milk for milk bread was determined in 1954 after research by the CSIRO Dairy Research Section and the Bread Research Institute of Australia, and after discussions with health authorities in all States, primary producers and milk processors. Four per cent non-fat milk solids represents the optimum amount that can be added to bread without causing processing difficulties, whilst providing a significant increase in nutrients. The minimum nitrogen content of 2.7 per cent for protein increased bread is based on the amount of protein which is required in a bread dough to be capable of producing a low density loaf of improved keeping quality. Such a loaf was formerly described as 'starch reduced ' but the more desirable description ' protein increased ' is now used. 
Milk powder is used in bread in other countries, but not to the same extent as in Australia. In Canada Enriched Bread or Enriched White Bread is bread baked from a dough in which enriched flour is the only flour used and contains, for each 1 00 parts of flour used, not less than 2 pans by weight of skim milk solids or 4 parts by weight of dried whey powder together with requirements for added vitamins and iron. 
In the United Kingdom the composition of bread containing milk solids is: 
Milk Bread, not less than 6 per cent milk solids calculated on a moisture free basis. 
Skimmed Milk Bread, not less than 6 per cent skimmed milk solids. 
The composition of bread containing added protein in the U.K. is as follows: 
High Protein Bread or Protein Bread, not less than 22 per cent protein on a moisture free basis. 
Gluten Bread, not less than 16 per cent protein on a moisture free basis. 
It is understood that where a 6 per cent addition of non-fat milk solids is required there is a very limited production of such bread, attributable to the processing difficulties which are involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In the past two years Khapra beetle has been detected by quarantine officers during routine inspections on three occasions in ships and stores, once in a passenger's baggage  from  an aircraft, on seven occasions in goods imported by ship and on one occasion in a parcel post article. On none of these occasions had the goods concerned left the port, airport or mail room respectively. 
However, Khapra beetle was located in a number of consignments which had been delivered to consignee's premises in Melbourne from cargo brought to Australia by the  Catherine S. 
Eleven separate consignments of the cargo of the  Catherine  5 were examined on discharge in Melbourne prior to their delivery to consignees. No evidence of Khapra beetle was found during these examinations. Sixteen separate consignments from the ship had been inspected on discharge at Sydney, the vessel's previous port of call, without detecting Khapra beetle. 
and (b) The first indication of the possible presence of Khapra beetle in the cargo of the  Catherine S  was a report that insects infested a consignment of cocoa butter brought to Australia by the  Catherine S  and delivered to Red Tulip. Prahran. 
Fumigation of all the cargo holds on the  Catherine S  was ordered. An extensive and comprehensive programme was immediately launched to trace the cargo discharged from the infested holds of the  Catherine S  at Melbourne. Treatments were carried out at 13 premises in the metropolitan area of Melbourne. A subsequent retrospective inspection of all cocoa butter discharged at Sydney from the vessel was made with no Khapra beetle being detected. 
(i) Cocoa butter has been included in the list of items which are subject to routine Customs/Quarantine action. 
A reminder was issued that all conventional cargo vessels (including bulk agricultural produce carriers not subject to Department of Primary Industry inspection) which regularly operate between Australia and countries where Khapra beetle is prevalent, and old vessels with little known history, are to be inspected at any port in Australia for evidence of Khapra beetle. To avoid unnecessary duplication quarantine officers at the first port of call advise quarantine at subsequent ports of call that a ship had been inspected and of the results of the inspection. 
No. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The assistance provided under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act is not payable direct to homeless men and women, but to the eligible organisations that provide assistance to homeless persons by way of food, accommodation or a social welfare service. Organisations currently receiving financial assistance in Western Australia are providing accommodation and food for up to 24 1 homeless persons daily. In addition, an average of 103 meals per day are being served to non-resident homeless persons. 
Ofthe241'beds' being provided in Western Australia, 229 are within the Electoral Division of Perth. All of the 103 meals referred to in ( 1 ) above are served at centres within the Electoral Division of Perth. 
A census of homeless people has not been undertaken in Australia. Population censuses conducted each five years by the Australian Bureau of Statistics are of limited value in estimating the size of the population of homeless people. This is the finding of the Working Party on Homeless Men and Women which reported to the Minister for Social Security in June 1973. Some estimates from fragmented evidence contained in this report constitute probably the only information available. 
Three partial censuses of accommodation used by homeless men in Sydney in 1971 and 1972 indicated that the homeless population in that city would be 'around the 3000 mark'. Estimates of numbers of homeless men using central city community facilities in Melbourne were of the same order of magnitude. Similarly-researched information was not available for other Australian cities, but if the Sydney and Melbourne estimates were accurate and if numbers elsewhere are proportional to total population, the minimum total for Australian cities would be of the order of 10 000 persons using current facilities. These estimates are essentially point-in-time estimates and, since the population of homeless people is mobile geographically and to some extent socially, the numbers using the same facilities over longer periods of time would be much higher. Figures supplied to the Working Party by the Salvation Army indicated that in 1971 its main men's institution in Melbourne had contact with5800 individual men. On the basis of this figure it was estimated that the total turnover of inner city agencies in Melbourne may be as high as 10 000 individual men per annum. Putting an upper limit on the total number of homeless people in Australia is difficult, but from the information available in 1973 the Working Party estimated that there was unlikely to be more than 25 000. 
The Department of Social Security is planning to collect information throughout Australia on the numbers of homeless persons in need of assistance, as pan of an evaluation program. One of the difficulties, however, is that there is no clear and universally accepted definition of what constitutes homelessness. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Health Insurance Commission is a statutory authority empowered, under the Health Insurance Commission Act 1973 (as amended) to administer the standard Medibank scheme and additionally, to conduct private medical benefits funds and private hospital benefits funds in each State. 
Accordingly I have not, nor will I, give Medibank instructions relating to the conduct of its private insurance business. The Commission, in exercising its function in relation to private insurance maintains competitiveness by virtue of market demands and preferences. Cost of premiums and benefits offered are but two of the factors which contributors will take into account. Other matters which will be considered -are standards of service, convenience of facilities, experience with other funds and recourse in the event of dispute. 
Medibank was the first fund to announce its rates and benefits. Subsequently, variations offering greater benefits in all the higher hospital tables and in the rates of contribution in the Queensland Medibank (Private) Hospital TableShared Room, have been proposed. 
The limitation of benefits to 35 days per person per year in hospital in a private room has been abolished and a full 365 days cover is now included in Medibank (Private) Hospital Benefits Table Two. However, Medibank, in common with other major funds, seeks to limit its liability under this table by not paying benefits in respect of hospital expenses relating to any chronic condition or any condition of which any symptoms or signs had manifested themselves prior to the date on which the contributor's membership of the organisation commenced (i.e. pre-existing ailments). This does not apply to the case of a contributor or dependant who is pregnant or where a contributor transfers from another organisation and had been entitled to comparable benefits from that organisation. 
I believe that in adopting rules similar to those in use by the other major health insurance funds on this aspect Medibank will retain its competitiveness in this respect. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The nursing home sector has not escaped the effects of Labor's inflationary policies. The rates of nursing home benefits were increased by the Liberal-National Country Party by $9.45 a week in all States in February 1976. However, I am fully aware that, because of the inflation that the Government inherited, this has not been sufficient to ensure the measure of dignity and security for elderly people in nursing homes that I would wish. 
Our Government has set up a committee to inquire into Federal programs for the care of the aged and the infirm. Particular emphasis will be directed to the position of nursing homes. I believe that the existence of the Committee of Inquiry into Care of the Aged and the Infirm is tangible evidence of the Government's concern for the aged and sick aged in our society. The Committee comprises  Mr Austin  Holmes,  Dr Sidney  Sax,  Mr Neil  Hyden and  Mr Keith  Medbury. 
The care of the aged and the infirm is a very complex area and the committee will be making its report as soon as possible. Of course I am deeply concerned at the problems being faced by patients in nursing homes and their relatives. However, the Government would wish to study the committee's report and recommendations before finally deciding on what measures to adopt to assist nursing home patients further. 
Pursuant to section 148 of the Social Services Act 1947 I present the annual report of the Department of Social Security for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the DirectorGeneral of Health for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Printing of the Health Department publication  How to choose the health insurance cover that's right for you  is now under way in six languages- Greek, Italian, Spanish, Turkish, Arabic and Serbo-Croat- and distribution will commence shortly. The printing program has been governed by the availability of competent translators, and earlier completion was not possible. 
Within current budgetary restraints, efforts have been made, and are continuing to be made, to cater directly for non-English speaking communities. Advertisements prepared by the Department of Health and the Health Insurance Commission concerning the changes to the health insurance system have been placed in all ethnic newspapers. There are 54 such newspapers currently published in 22 languages. In addition, Ethnic liaison officers employed by the Health Insurance Commission have been continuing to communicate directly with migrant groups and are broadcasting on ethnic radio stations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The generally accepted incubation period for rabies in dogs varies from 10 days to S months but there are isolated instances where the incubation period has extended to 12 months. (Reference 'Report of Committee of Enquiry into Rabies' June, 1971- Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and Secretary of State for Scotland). 
Quarantine arrangements ensure that any dog released in Australia which originated in a rabies infected country has been free of rabies for a period immediately prior to release which is in excess of the incubation period of the disease. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This program is currently under review. Until the review has been completed no precise date can be given. 
A self-employed person, including a farmer, who chooses not to insure privately and thus would normally be a Medibank levy payer, will be assessed for the purposes of the Medibank levy no earlier than the end of March  1977.  The balance of the tax payable for  1975-76  is due at that time. At that time, of course, he will receive an assessment for the balance of the tax for  1975-76,  that is, any amount over the previous provisional tax payment. He will also receive the assessment for the Medibank levy for  1976-77  and will be assessed for provisional tax at the same time. 
While I am on my feet, I should like to say what I have said to a number of people in my own electorate. I believe that most farmers whose family incomes are likely to be below  $10,500  will be far better off paying the Medibank levy and taking out hospital-only insurance if they wish to insure for doctor of choice. It is only when the income of a person, for instance in New South Wales, is over  $10,500  that he would cover himself for full medical and hospital cover, that is, if he wanted the doctor of his choice in a hospital. So I think that the majority of people who are self-employed, including farmers in the electorate of Mallee, would be far better ofT agreeing to pay the  2V4  per cent levy and taking out hospital-only insurance. In some years, of course, farmers do not have incomes and in those years they will be paying no Medibank levy. They would then be covered for medical expenses receivable from Medibank and would recover benefits for shared room accommodation or private room accommodation with hospital-only insurance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The voluntary advertising code on alcohol which is currently in operation is a modification of the code which was adopted by the Australian Associated Brewers in 197S. The major change consists of an additional clause which calls for the liquor industry to encourage responsibility in drinking by continuing education towards the rational use of alcohol. 
The Commonwealth/States Working Party on Alcohol which was established after the 197S Health Ministers' Conference, and which developed the code in association with the liquor industry, will continue to exchange information with the industry and will monitor the application of the voluntary code. 
The voluntary code in Australia differs from the alcoholic drink provisions of the United Kingdom statutory Independent Broadcasting Authority Code of Advertising Standards and Practice in the following ways: 
children may not be seen or heard in an advertisement for alcoholic drink in the United Kingdom. 
Normally they should not be portrayed in such an advertisement in Australia either. Certain exceptions are possible e.g. where the background in a scene is not under the control of the advertiser. However the exception is valid only if it is clear that the children are not drinking alcoholic beverages; 
in Britain a liquor advertisement may not feature any personality who commands the loyalty of the young. This is not a provision in the Australian voluntary code; 
the Australian code provides that alcohol advertisements should be directed to effect a change in the share of the total liquor market, and not to an increased consumption of alcohol. This is not a requirement of the United Kingdom statutory code; 
advertisements for alcohol, under the Australian code, will not show people drinking in work situations. There is no equivalent in the United Kingdom code; 
the Australian code provides for the liquor industry to encourage responsibility in drinking by continuing education towards the rational use of alcohol. This is not provided for in the United Kingdom code; 
the Australian code provides that alcohol advertisements should do no more than reflect people drinking responsibly in natural situations. This is not specified in the United Kingdom code; 
the United Kingdom code specifies that advertisements must not claim that alcohol has therapeutic qualities nor offer it expressly as a stimulant, sedative or tranquilliser. There is no equivalent requirement in the Australian code; 
viii) under the United Kingdom code no liquor advertisement may publicise a competition. The Australian code does not refer to this matter. 
Yes. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by the  Chairman  of the Working Party on the Organisation of Clinical Services in Canberra Hospitals dated 1 September 1976. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Act 1975 I present the report on the operations of that Act for the year ended 30 June 1976. Copies of this report are expected from the printers during the course of the next few days. They will be distributed as they become available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. However, the honourable member will appreciate that this is a complex matter and it may be some time before the studies are completed. 
Environmental Impact Statement: AlburyWodonga (Question No. 1109) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because of the current necessity for restrictions on public expenditure, funds are available under the Community Health Program during 1976-77 for previously approved projects only. 
The future availability of Community Health Program funds for new projects will depend upon future developments in the Australian economic situation. 
The first thing I want to make clear to the honourable member for Wide Bay, and to the House, is that universal insurance will remain after 1 October so that every person in Australia will be covered by one means or another for medical and hospital care. The Government has taken decisions to modify Medibank because of the very high incidence of increases in health costs in this country. We anticipate that health costs in Australia in this year will be of the order of $5,400m. Quite clearly the health costs in this country have to be paid for by the community by one means or another- either by taxation or by distributing the costs by some means. The modifications to Medibank, as I said earlier, have retained the universal insurance concept but they have spread the costs, in our view, in a more equitable manner. Pensioners and people on the lowest incomes will be able to receive standard Medibank benefits free of any cost to them, and the chronically ill people who privately insure will benefit from the $50m subsidy that we have made available to health insurance. 
Under our proposals, estimated hospital and medical benefit costs in Australia are expected to be $3, 320m, and it is expected that the cost will be met in the following manner: Firstly, Consolidated Revenue will provide $1,1 20m, the States will meet about $840m by way of contributing towards hospital costs, and those people who we anticipate will privately insure will, through their premiums, contribute about $985m, whilst levy payers will contribute about $375m. That means that people who pay the levy will on average be contributing about 1 8 per cent towards meeting the total health care cost in that group. Those who pay the levy and take out private insurance for hospital cover only will be contributing about 40 per cent towards the cost of their health care, whilst those in the higher income level who might choose to insure privately for medical and hospital cover, with the right to choose their own doctor, will be meeting somewhere near 70 per cent of their total health care costs. I give that information as an introduction to the other matters to which the honourable member has referred. 
in reply-I thank honourable members for the contribution they made to the debate on this Social Welfare Commission (Repeal) Bill. I should just like to respond to a couple of points that were raised by several honourable members in the course of the debate. I join honourable members in paying a tribute to the members of the Social Welfare Commission for the work they have already done. I believe it has not been time wasted. I believe there has been great value to the Parliament and to all those interested in social welfare from the research work and the organisational work that members of the Commission have done to date. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  indicated that he felt that there was an alternative way of running and administering the concept of the Australian Assistance Plan. He shared with other speakers the view that there were great advantages in the concept. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  made constructive comments. The honourable member for Murray drew attention to the Government's decision to set up the research unit at the New South Wales University and also the Government's intention to establish consultative committees on social welfare. 
The Government is taking steps to fulfil its commitment to provide effective mechanisms for co-operation and interchange of ideas with interested groups in the social welfare field. A national consultative group on social welfare is being established to advise the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on current issues in social welfare which come within the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. In the next 2 or 3 weeks the membership of that group will be announced. Matters such as gaps and deficiencies in programs, arrangements for service delivery, assessment and review of priorities and the modification of programs in the light of research findings, changing needs and social and economic conditions will be among those subjects on which the Minister will consult the group. 
Membership of the group will consist of about 12 people including academics from relevant disciplines and other suitably qualified people active in the social welfare field, together with representatives of national welfare bodies and voluntary social welfare agencies. Of course in each State and Territory a small consultative committee on social welfare will be established to advise the Director-General of the Department of Social Security, through the appropriate State Director of the Department, on administration at the State level. Undoubtedly the consultative committees will perform a very important role in meeting some of the aspirations that have been spoken of here today. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  referred to the value of the Australian Assistance Plan, and I think other speakers also expressed great support for the general concept. As I understand it, after the Minister for Social Security and the Government had studied the report of the Commission the Minister met with her respective State Ministers, had discussions with them about the future of the AAP and suggested that the future administration of the scheme may be better vested in the various State governments and in local government itself. I am informed that the Minister is still awaiting a response from the various State Ministers on this matter. I think most of us would agree that in the regional areas where the AAP program has got off the ground it has in fact brought together a great number of people who certainly have improved the quality of life of the less advantaged people in the community. I know that in my own region we have had a very active organisation. It has done a tremendous amount to overcome some of the difficulties facing the disadvantaged and the Aborigines in particular. One of the difficulties was that in 1975-76 a grant of $3.6m was provided under the AAP program, but I am told that it cost about $2. 8m to administer the grant. That seems to have been a rather heavy administrative cost compared with the amount of money that was allocated. These sorts of problems are under review at present. 
The Government will be proceeding along the lines of setting up the research unit at the University of New South Wales, and also the consultative groups, and it will undoubtedly not lose sight of the general concept of marshalling the best resources and manpower that are available to try to overcome some of the deficiencies that exist in the AAP program. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  made the very important point that in today's society the Government and the community should be turning their attention to the rights of the less privileged people in the community. I think that the community as a whole has accepted the fact that there is a great responsibility on all our shoulders to ensure that the less advantaged people in the community are given their rights by both governments and the community. I conclude by thanking honourable members for the contributions that they have made to this debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I want to reply to some matters that have been raised. I thank all those honourable members who took part in the debate, even those members of the Opposition who exaggerated the situation in respect of the estimates for the Department of Health. I want to make it very clear that although this year's Budget showed an overall reduction in expenditure on health of l.5 per cent, after adjustment for the payment of $2 16m to the States in June for hospital operation costs, the Budget allocation in fact represents an increase of 14 per cent. So let us not get carried away and say that there has been a substantial reduction in health expenditure. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the actual appropriations. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="100131197609236_87_0.jpg"></graphic>

This 14 per cent increase has taken place at a time of great economic stringency. This Government has inherited a situation where the Whitlam Government spent money as if it was going out of fashion. We saw an irresponsible spending spree and clearly there was a time when there had to be a slow-down in the rate of government expenditure. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 18 February 1976 I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
It became very evident that money does not grow on trees and that the Government had to take some responsible decisions to try to overcome the serious economic plight which it inherited from the former Government. I do not think I need dwell on that because most of the Australian people understand the problem, even if the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  does not. 
I want to devote some time to the community health program. This program is still being maintained in spite of the fact that honourable members from Victoria on the Opposition benches are inclined to give the impression that it has been cut very badly. A total of $70.7m has been provided for the payment of grants to the States, local government authorities and other eligible organisations under the community health program, as well as assisting major national voluntary organisations in the family medicine program. This compares with $54.3m last year and will allow committed projects- I emphasise 'committed projects'- in this important co-operative program with the States. That program will be maintained at a viable level. 
The Commonwealth Government's grant to Victoria for this financial year has increased from $ 10.5m to $ 15.2m and we understand that that should maintain the community program at a viable level in Victoria. There have been some protest meetings and representations by members on both sides of the chamber, and officers of my Department will be talking to Victorian officers to see what can be done to ensure that the program is maintained at a viable rate. I understand that these discussions should be getting under way very shortly. 
Under the program itself it is expected that the Commonwealth will contribute 75 per cent of the capital cost, the States 25 per cent and we will be contributing 90 per cent towards the operating costs of the various programs or projects. So it is up to the States under the new arrangement, under our new federalism policy, to sort out their own priorities. We would expect the States to establish priorities in accordance with community health programs as we are continuing the hospitals development program. 
In answer to the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who raised the question of the problem being faced by patients and relatives of patients in nursing homes, we are of course now awaiting a report from a committee that was established to inquire into the problem of caring for the aged and the sick aged. I hope that in the next two or three weeks there will be a report in our hands so that the Government can take a decision on this very complex matter. It is a program that involves not only nursing homes but also nursing care, and so on. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Mclean)  also raised a matter in respect to lone fathers. This is a matter which I know the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is very much aware of and is concerned about. She has expressed her wish to improve their position as soon as the Government is able to do so. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  raised a point about the Department of Repatriation. I want him to be assured, as he should have been assured when the Prime Minister answered a question on the matter, that the Government has no intention of dismantling the Department of Repatriation, now to be known as the Department of Veterans Affairs. There is no intention whatsoever of restructuring the Department. Indeed, it will be strengthened and the Department and the Commission will be retained. I do not think returned servicemen are unhappy with the name change. The honourable member for Herbert, who is probably one of the recognised spokesmen for returned servicemen in this Chamber, has indicated that he is fully in favour of it in spite of the honourable member's objection. 
The final matter that I want to reply to was raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)-  the matter of the single mothers' benefit. He was somewhat amazed by the increase in the amount that is appropriated for benefits in this area. I will ask the Minister for Social Security to provide him with the answer to that matter. As for the other matter that he raised about unemployment benfits, should the Budget estimate prove to be inadequate, additional funds will automatically be made available to make payments to those qualified by reason of the automatic appropriation provisions in the Social Services Act and the National Welfare Fund Act. The Government is hopeful, of course, that with the measures that are now being taken we will see a diminishing level of unemployment in this country. The Budget itself is designed to try to stimulate the private sector of the economy which employs 75 per cent of the work force. There was a change of government just in time, otherwise we would have seen a much greater level of unemployment in this country. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission has been commissioned to undertake a study of radiological services in Australia. There has been a great need to try to achieve a better rationalisation of the usage of resources and manpower in this area. The Medibank Review Committee, in the course of its inquiries, also detected areas of some concern in regard to the expense of radiological services. In due course the Government should have before it a report from the Hospitals and Health Services Commission which will assess whether or not some changes are necessary to improve the efficiency of radiological services and also to overcome any excessive expenditures in the area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) It is assumed that the 'statements' referred to in the honourable member's question are letters which the  Chairman  of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission forwarded to honourable members in August 1976, advising them of Community Health Program projects in their electorates which have been approved for Commonwealth purposes in respect of 1976-77. 
These letters included advice that allocations of funds under the Program in 1976-77 were for the continuation of approved projects; that the allocations had been made in the form of a single block grant to each State; and that decisions on the level of funding of individual projects were to be made by the State health authorities. These letters involved no unsubstantiated claims. 
As indicated in a reply to ( 1 ) above, Commonwealth funding under the Community Health Program in 1976-77 has been in the form of a block grant to each State, and the allocation of funds to individual projects from within the block grant is a matter for detailed decision by the State health authorities. This is an expression of the appropriate balance between Commonwealth involvement in broad policy issues and priorities, and the need for the States to have greater flexibility in terms of their responsibility for the administration or supervision of health services in the States. Joint discussions and agreements between Commonwealth and State authorities will precede final decisions on the block grants and later allocations to individual projects. Subsequent joint reviews will be undertaken with a view to ensuring that annual programs retain their agreed characteristics. 
3 ) The position is not as stated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth's offer of Community Health Program annual block grants to each State for the State's total program of community health projects is based upon the Government's federalism policies. The block grants arrangements are seen as providing an appropriate balance between the need for Commonwealth involvement in broad policy issues and evaluations, and the need for the States to have greater flexibility in terms of their responsibilities for the administration or supervision of health services within the States. 
The bases on which block grants have been offered to the States under the Community Health Program are that the Commonwealth will continue to have roles in relation to- broad policies and strategies for the Program; agreement with each State on the inclusion of individual projects in the State's annual program, and on priorities within the annual program; and joint Commonwealth/State evaluations and progress reporting activities. 
No. The respective roles of the Commonwealth and the States are seen as complementary. 
Please see reply to (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Federal Government has supported a large number of research projects in diabetes through the National Health and Medical Research Council. Details of these are given in the NH&amp;MRC's reports on the work done under the Medical Research Endowment Act published in the session reports of the NH&amp;MRC. The most recent report was 81st Session Report, October 1975 which is available in the Parliamentary Library. 
At present the Council supports the following 9 projects at a total cost of $95,000. 
University of Sydney, Assoc Prof. J. R. Turtle- 'The pathophysiology of insulin secretion in diabetes mellitus' 
University of Melbourne, Drs F. Alford and D. Chisholm- 'Glucagon and glucagon-related peptides in normal glucose homeostatis and in the pathophysiology of diabetes mellitus' 

 Dr R. G. Larkins 'In vitro insulin synthesis and secretion in normal, "prediabetic" and obese hyperglycaemic mice' 
Monash University, Prof. J. Bornstein- 'Pituitary polypeptides and metabolic control in diabetes mellitus' 
Drs M. K. Gould, I. C. Parsons, Prof. J. Bomstein-'The mechanism of the insulin-antagonistic action of growth hormone: a unified hypothesis' 
Alfred Hospital (Vic),  Dr P.  Zimmet- 'A prevalence survey of diabetes mellitus on a Pacific island (Noumea) and an epidemiological study of vascular disease in Australian and Noumean diabetics' 
Prince Henry's Hospital (Vic),  Dr D.  P. CameronStudies of insulin secretion in rodents with spontaneous or acquired diabetes and/or obesity' 
University of Adelaide, Prof. M. N. Berry- 'Hepatic regulatory mechanisms in relation to diabetes' 
Royal Perth Hospital,  Dr R.  E. Davis, Prof. D. H. Curnow- ' Investigation of pyridoxal metabolism in diabetes' 
In addition the Council supports  Dr D.  K-S. Yue at Sydney University, who is expected to complete his Ph.D. thesis on 'The Immunopathology of Insulin ' by the end of 1 976. 
The Council is in the process of evaluating grant applications for support in 1 977 and it is not yet known how many projects dealing with diabetes will be successful. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The cost of compiling a draft manuscript for a proposed booklet on support services available to women was almost entirely related to staff salaries and office expenses and involved, as well as staff time within the Department of Social Security, information contributions from officers of other Government departments and voluntary agencies. It is estimated that, within the Department of Social Security, staff salary costs and office expenses of some $7,000 were involved. 
The Department of Social Security did not provide a copy of the manuscript for the Directory to  Woman's Day  nor authorise its publication. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No decision has been made regarding the establishment or location of an off-shore animal quarantine station. 
See (1) above. 
No. 
Current action is necessarily limited to an in-depth study of the proposal including a detailed examination of all financial implications. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
At 30 June 1976, 719 500 social security pensioners were aged 70 years or more. 
The answer to Question (2) (i) and (2) (ii)is provided in the table below: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Quarantine Proclamation No. 88a and the amendments to the Quarantine (Animals) Regulations came into operation on 28 September 1 976. 
In the time which has elapsed since the Department was first alerted to the disease risk from cheese it has been necessary, inter alia, to undertake a careful assessment of the research findings which indicated the need for quarantine control, to develop a control framework which would provide adequate protection at a minimum level consistent with safety, and to arrange for the drafting of all necessary legislation. The time taken to undertake these sequential tasks was unavoidable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) At 30 June 1975, dental therapy training schools in the following locations were supported by Commonwealth Government grants: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The revised health insurance arrangements operating from 1 October 1976 ensure that everyone who insures under the basic hospital benefits table, which all registered hospital benefits organisations are required to operate, is, inter alia, covered against the public (recognised) hospital charge of $40 a day for shared room accommodation at all times regardless of the nature or duration of illness. That is, exclusion rules which would otherwise deny or limit benefits because of a pre-existing illness or chronic ailment will be prohibited under the basic table. 
People insured in the basic hospital benefits table and choosing to receive their hospital treatment in private hospitals will have cover for $56 a day. This amount includes $ 16 a day Commonwealth benefit which is paid direct to private hospitals and deducted from the hospital account This is an increase of $10 a day over the maximum benefits currently payable. 
The matter of payment of additional hospital benefits from supplementary tables operated by registered hospital benefits organisations (in addition to the basic hospital benefits table) will be a matter for them and any exclusions on limitations they wish to invoke in accordance with their rules such as maximum days of benefit, chronic ailments and pre-existing illnesses. That is, organisations may deny these additional benefits if their rules so provide, which is no different from the present position. 
3 ) Eligible pensioners receive their medical benefits cover of at least 85 per cent of the Schedule fees from Standard Medibank without payment of the Health Insurance Levy. Where the doctor accepts the 85 per cent benefit as full payment, they receive all medical treatment free of personal cost. In these circumstances there is no need for the eligible pensioner to take out private medical insurance as the same benefits would be payable by Standard Medibank. If, however, they wish to be insured for shared ward hospital accommodation with the choice of their own doctor the basic hospital benefits table referred to above will be available at a Commonwealth subsidised contribution rate of $1.30 (single) or $2.60 (family) per week without need to take out private medical insurance. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report and financial accounts of the Fawnmac Group for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
I thank the honourable member for this question because I am aware of the propaganda that is being bandied about and I am aware of the letters to which he refers. There has been much unfair and ill-informed criticism regarding health centre development in the Australian Capital Territory. New health centres are being constructed at Kambah and in the city itself. A new centre is to start at Weston Creek. The Capital Territory Health Commission is to acquire the Australian Capital Territory Totalisator Agency Board building at Dickson which will provide the facility for a health centre. Hopefully the building will be vacated in late 1977. Centres are planned for Wanniassa, Evatt, Tuggeranong, Charnwood, and so on. 
The amount being expended to try to maintain community health centres in the Australian Capital Territory is running into many millions of dollars. Surely this is a firm indication of the intention of the Government to provide this community facility to the people of Canberra. In spite of the staff ceilings that are imposed upon us in this time of economic restraint, there is a clear indication that we will be able to provide sufficient salaried practitioners at the health centres. We have appointed four such people in the last few weeks in Canberra. I want to give an assurance to the honourable member and to the people of Canberra that the rumours and the Press reports to which the honourable member referred are quite incorrect. This Government is maintaining the community health centre program that a former Liberal-Country Party Government initiated in 1 97 1 . 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the changes to the Social Services Act 1947 and the Repatriation Act 1920 proposed in the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976 and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976, which are presently before this House. The primary purpose of the Bill is to vary the means test for pensioner health benefits provided for in the National Health Act so that it will remain in accord with the means test for 'fringe benefits' to be applied to pensioners under the Social Services Act. This will be achieved by amending the definition of 'pensioner' in the Act. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced in his Budget Speech that an 'income test' would replace the existing 'means as assessed' test, which combined property and income in assessing the means of an applicant for the pension. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  announced that a corresponding change would be made to the special eligibility test applying to the issue of pensioner health benefits cards. The Bill provides for this change. The opportunity is being taken to up-date the definition of 'dependant' in relation to a 'pensioner' to bring it more closely into line with corresponding definitions in the Social Services Act and the Repatriation Act. The new definition removes the upper limit of 2 1 years on the age of a student dependant, a condition which was not imposed under those other Acts. In addition, it extends the definition to include the children of  de facto  spouses and removes the existing requirement that, where a Social Services Act pensioner is involved  made facto  relationship, that relationship must have existed for 3 years before the  de facto  partner would be recognised as a dependant. 
The Bill provides for the preservation of the eligibility of those people who qualified as pensioners or dependants under present criteria, but may not otherwise qualify under the new provisions. It is expected that the implementation of the measures will, by extending eligibility both for pensioners and their dependants, cost $1.8m in a full year for pharmaceutical benefits. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Connor)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As with the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976, the second reading of which I moved a short time ago, this Bill is also consequential upon the changes proposed in the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976 and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976, which are presently before this House. The Bill provides for the definitions of 'eligible pensioner' and 'dependant', in relation to an eligible pensioner, to be the same as those proposed for pensioner' and 'dependant', in relation to a pensioner, in the National Health Bill. This will preserve parity of means test provisions with those in the Social Services Act and the Repatriation Act. The Bill also provides for the preservation of the eligibility of those people who qualified as pensioners or dependants under present criteria, but may not otherwise qualify under the new provisions. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Connor)  adjourned. 
I think there has been a pretty full debate on this matter and, in view of the program ahead of us on the other Bills, I think I should endeavour to close the debate at this stage so that we can move on to other matters of concern. The honourable member or Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has again raised the point about pensioners who are currently earning more than 10 per cent on their assets. The point he takes arises as a result of the improvement of the means test provisions which will benefit a great number of additional pensioners in this country. As I said earlier, this provision ensures that in the process those pensioners do not have their existing pensions reduced as a result of the change from the present means-as-assessed system to the new income-only test. I concede that there will be some disadvantage amongst those people. 
I have not got the numbers but I can find out. No doubt the Department of Social Security would have the numbers available. If not, I am sure the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will provide the information for the honourable member. An additional 30 000-odd pensioners will gain as a result of the change to the means-as-assessed system, and the Government has ensured that in the the transition period the effect of the new means testing arrangement is minimised. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  question now is that the Bill as amended be agreed to. 
The honourable member for Tangney has drawn my attention to these rather exaggerated claims by  Mr Hawke  who clearly is indulging in an extravagant exercise of misrepresentation of the real position. There is no way in the world that Medibank will break down under the revised health insurance arrangements. It appears that most people have made up their minds. It appears that somewhere of the order of 70 per cent of the people have decided to insure privately either with Medibank Private or with another fund of their choice.  Mr Hawke  is not known for always being terribly responsible in the statements he makes about this matter. It was quite inaccurate for him to make the statement he made. Probably it was designed to create panic. The transition on 1 October went very smoothly indeed. The majority of the Australian people have made up their minds and made their choice. I refute the statement made by  Mr Hawke  about Medibank. 
in reply- On behalf of the Government, I thank honourable members for the contribution they have made to the debate on the Bills before the House. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who made a constructive contribution to the debate, critical of some aspects of the legislation, could have conceded some credit to the Government for having made generous advancements in certain areas, particularly in relation to the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 3). Much of the current hardship among disadvantaged people is due to the inflationary problems that were generated by 3 years of the former Labor Government, problems the Government is trying to attend to at the present time. I say that in all sincerity. No one doubts the intense interest of the honourable member for Oxley in social security and the welfare of pensioners and disadvantaged people. I can assure him that this Government is also most anxious to ensure that what resources are available at this critical time are addressed to people in the areas of greatest need. 
I want to address myself briefly to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley on behalf of the Opposition. It states in part:  while not opposing the Bill, the House deplores the inequities which arise from the Government 's failure to- 
The amendment then lists a series of points from (a) to (e), and I would like to go through those points one by one. The relevant item in the Government's policy speech reads as follows: 
Protect benefits from erosion by inflation through automatically adjusting benefit levels every 6 months, according to movements in the Consumer Price Index. 
It will be noted that the word 'immediate' does not appear. Paragraph (b) of the amendment calls for the indexation of dependants' allowances to meet increases in the cost of living. There was no reference in the Government's policy speech to indexation of dependants' allowances. However, the rate of a wife's pension and additional unemployment and sickness benefits payable in respect of a spouse are being indexed. 
The third point in the amendment deals with the increase in the supplementary benefit. This refers to the supplementary assistance of $5 a week which is payable to pensioners who pay rent and who have little or no other means apart from their pension. The policy speech contained no direct reference to an increase in supplementary assistance, but the Government does recognise the needs of people in this area and certainly has it in mind. Paragraph (d) of the amendment deals with the automatic adjustment of unemployment and sickness benefits for those under 18 years of age. In the autumn of 1975 the former Labor Government decided not to increase the rates of unemployment and sickness benefits for unmarried persons under 18 years of age. That decision was confirmed in the 1975 Budget and has been followed by the present Government. So both parties when in office have followed the same procedure in this area. 
Paragraph (e) refers to the protection of the incomes of those pensioners adversely affected by provisions in the legislation. The legislation provides that no pension will be reduced or cancelled solely as a result of the change to the new income test. In practice, this will mean that pensioners who would otherwise be adversely affected will receive the increases provided for in the Bill on 1 1 November and their pensions will not be reduced or cancelled because of the new income test on 25 November. Pensioners affected by the savings provision in the legislation will thereby enjoy a higher rate of payment than they would be entitled to under the income test. They will continue to enjoy that rate until subsequent statutory increases entitle them to a higher rate. I think that the Minister for 
Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Government adopted a sensible approach to try to ease any difficulty which could arise as a result of the change to the means test. Those people who will be affected by the provision, those people who are currently earning more than 10 per cent on their assets, will be covered by the Bill, which ensures that such pensioners do not have their existing pensions reduced as a result of the change from the present means-as-assessed system to the new income-only test. There could have been a great deal of hardship if the savings provision had not been included in the legislation. 
I hope that that answers the complaint made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who saw in this process a great deal of hardship as inflation continued and who felt that pensioners would not derive an indexed benefit from it. Clearly, such people are in an area of higher income, and the Government has endeavoured to ease any burden of hardship that would flow from an immediate adjustment which would automatically reduce their entitlement. As I said earlier, the Government has had difficulties in a very serious deficit situation. In spite of the adverse economic climate, the significant initiatives provided for in this legislation allow for a generous extension of $222m in a full year, which will directly benefit more than 1.85 million people. The total expenditure this year in this area will be of the order of $5,1 78m, which is a 32 per cent increase over the financial year 1975-76. I think the legislation achieves a great deal in a very difficult economic environment. 
I conclude by saying that the legislation does 5 specific things. It increases the standard and married rate pensions and benefits. It makes provision for the implementation of automatic adjustments of standard and married rate pensions, and so on, in May and November of each year, and that honours the election promise made by the Liberal and National Country parties. It introduces an income test for pensioners, replacing both income and assets, and so brings great equity to people who may have fairly high assets but very little disposable income. People living in country areas particularly, and indeed in city areas, have been greatly disadvantaged because of the former provisions. So a great anomaly has been removed by this amendment to the legislation. The rate of handicapped children's allowances has been generously increased to try to overcome the impact of inflation, which is affecting families with handicapped children. 
Of course, the existing procedures for the payment of unemployment and sickness benefits in fortnightly instalments have been validated. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  dwelt on that aspect of the legislation dealing with the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act 1974, an Act which came into operation during the time of the former Government. I think it is fair to say that all parties when in government show a great inclination to recognise the difficulties suffered by parents who have handicapped children. 
-I just made the point that the Labor Government brought it in in 1974, and I give it credit for having introduced such legislation. I also give the Minister and the Government credit for having increased the allowance from $3.50 a day to $5 a day in respect of each handicapped child in approved residential accommodation. The Government has maintained the Commonwealth grants subsidies at the rate of $4 for $1 for capital works, equipment maintenance and rent. A subsidy amounting to 50 per cent of salaries for staff has also been maintained. I think that indicates the sense of compassion and concern felt by all political parties for people and who are so afflicted. The long term program that has been developed by the Department of Social Security in respect to capital assistance over the next 3 years will, I am sure, go a long way towards overcoming some of the deficiencies that exist at the present time. I will refer some of the detailed points raised by honourable members to the Minister for Social Security in another place. No doubt, she will respond in detail to the honourable members concerned. I thank all honourable members for the contributions that they have made to the debate. I conclude by saying that for the reasons I have enunciated, the Government rejects to amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Oxley on behalf of the Opposition. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I have an amendment to clause 32 which reads in part: 
After section 83C of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 83ca. (1) For the purposes of sections 83a and 83b, a reference to a prescribed person shall be read as a reference to a person whose annual rate of income equals or exceeds the prescribed rate of income applicable to him. 
I move: 
In clause 32, after 'to a person', insert '(other than a person who is permanently blind ) '. 
The purpose of the amendment is to correct an ommission when the Bill was drafted. When clause 32 of the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 3) was drafted it was overlooked that the limits specified do not apply to blind persons. These pensioners are entitled to funeral benefits irrespective of their income, and this has been the position since 1954. The amendment preserves the present position. 
While on my feet there are a couple of things I want to say. I have been astonished to hear some of the speeches made by members of the Opposition, who clearly are to trying create the impression, when we are on air, that the Fraser Government is making the word 'welfare ' a dirty word. That is a lot of rubbish. In the last 2 pension increases announced by this Government there has been a total increase of $4.75 a week in the single pension and $8 a week in the combined married pension. The unemployment benefit and the sickness benefit have been increased except in the case of unmarried persons. The truth of the situation is that in this year we will be spending no less than $5, 178m which is a 32 per cent increase spent what was spent by the former Government. So what a lot of rubbish we have heard. I would not have bothered to get to my feet to talk on this matter except that we happen to be on the air, and I do not want people in Australia, pensioners and others, getting the impression from some of the irresponsible speeches that have been made that this Government is out to cut the ground from under pensioners and underprivileged people in this country. 
This Government's whole purpose and thrust has been to direct the subsidies and help to those in most need in our community. The modifications which were made to Medibank direct the whole of the subsidy basically to underprivileged people and those on lower incomes. If ever there was an egalitarian approach to a health insurance system we have adopted that approach and the Opposition cannot deny it. Most socialist economists would agree, but for political reasons honourable members opposite will not accept it and try to delude the people as they have tried to do here today. 
The Government is opposed to the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  for the reasons that it was opposed to the amendments moved to the Social Services Amendment Bill. Clearly, the Government is carrying out its election promise to introduce automatic increases in pensions and benefits in line with the consumer price index. At no stage did the Government say that it would carry out an immediate automatic increase. That is the point. A word has been added to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley which throws an entirely different light on what was intended and what was said on this issue by the Liberal and National Country Parties. I addressed myself at some length to this matter in the debate on the Social Services Amendment BUI. The Government does not accept this amendment because it believes that it is completely out of line with our election policy. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I have an amendment to clause 19, which reads in part: 123ab.  (1) For the purposes of section 123a, a reference to a prescribed person shall be read as a reference to a person whose annual rate of income equals or exceeds the prescribed rate of income applicable to him. 
I move: 
In clause 19, after the words 'to a person' insert the words (other than a person who is permanently blind)'. 
The amendment to clause 19 has been criticised already. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  would have a copy of it. A permanently blind person is at present eligible for an invalid pension free of the means test under section 28 (2aa) of the Social Services Act. The same principle applies under section 87 (1) (a) of the Repatriation Act in respect of a permanently blind service pensioner. It is necessary that clause 19 of the Bill be amended to exclude a permanently blind person from the meaning of a prescribed person' under the proposed section 123ab of the Act. Eligibility of a blind pensioner for fringe benefits has never been dependent upon his means. The amendment which I have moved will maintain that position. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
I strongly disagree with the  remarks  about the health services in Central Australia. We are very concerned about this matter and I am sure that as a result of the inquiry being undertaken now there will be some benefit to the sufferers from this dreadful disease. 
I will take up with my Department the honourable member's suggestion that we try to enlist medical practitioners to adopt a task force approach to trying to overcome the trachoma problem in the Northern Territory. I will ask my departmental officers to have an early discussion with  Dr Ida  Mann and we will have a very close look at the recommendations she has made in the hope that they are feasible and that something can be done to arrest the problem in the Northern Territory. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission entitled  Health Transport Policies for A ustralia. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Fremantle 's interest in the matter has been stimulated by a long experience of and concern about trachoma amongst the Aboriginal people and also a report by Professor Hollows which was referred to in the  Canberra Times  today at some length. The honourable member would be aware that the Government is currently financing a scientific investigation of trachoma and the effect it is having upon Aboriginal people. In fact, $570,000 has been provided by the Commonwealth through a health program grant to the Australian College of Ophthalmologists, which is currently carrying out this work. I have no knowledge of the report to which the honourable member referred but I will make it my business to see that it is available to the research workers doing this work. I am sure they would have taken it into account; if not, I would hope that they do so. I would like to table in the Parliament a response to the article on this subject published in the  Canberra Times  this morning. Whilst I completely agree with the remarks of Professor Hollows about the adverse effects of living conditions on the health of Aboriginals - 
May I incorporate it? 
As I have said on numerous occasions I am aware of the influence that inflation is having on the fees faced by patients and the relatives of patients in nursing homes and I can assure the honourable member that the matter is the cause of deep concern for the Government which, as the honourable member knows, has established a committee of inquiry into the care of the aged and the sick aged. In order to ensure that the maximum benefit is achieved from the work of this and other committees which have been responsible for undertaking reviews of this and associated areas, the Government has decided to consider the individual reports concurrently so that action can be taken on an integrated comprehensive basis. We expect those reports to be to hand during November and I would anticipate that the Government would be taking a decision on them as soon as possible. However, I assure the honourable member and all honourable members who are concerned about the problem that we are aware of it. We are most concerned and will endeavour to do something about it in a rational way. 
The Government has been concerned about the dissatisfaction, as between the Pharmacy Guild of Australia and successive governments, that has prevailed for years. The honourable member will recall that in 1972  Sir Kenneth  Anderson, the then Minister for Health, came to an arrangement with the Guild. The present Government, when coming to office, inherited a number of unresolved issues arising out of an inquiry which was headed by  Sir Walter  Scott. The Government made an offer to the Guild earlier in the year. It was not accepted by the Guild. Indeed, it responded by issuing a High Court writ. The case was set down for hearing on 28 September. Both the Guild and the Government agreed to withdraw the case until February, thus giving both parties a further opportunity to enter into discussions. I had discussions with the Pharmacy Guild of Australia late last week. I expect a response from the Pharmacy Guild some time in the next two or three days. I do not want to go into details of the offer, but the Government is disposed to offer to the Guild, on certain conditions, to amend section 99 of the National Health Act to provide for an independent arbitrator to determine unresolved issues that come before the joint committee on pricing. I hope to be able to make an announcement before the end of this week and I hope that we will achieve a resolution of what has been a very unfortunate set of circumstances between successive governments and the Guild. 
-The Government decided that under the modifications to Medibank which came into effect from 1 October doctors would be able to charge up to the 15 per cent but no more than $5 as a moiety for services rendered. We have asked the medical profession, as the previous Government did, to accept the scheduled benefit as payment in full for services rendered to pensioners. We believe that the medical profession generally will accept that proposal. It was felt that there was some sense in having a moiety for services rendered by doctors because it identified to patients the fact that services were in fact being rendered at a cost. The whole thrust of the modifications that we have made to Medibank has been designed to try to bring a sense of responsibility to the providers of health care and also to users of health care. We have seen a rapid escalation of health costs in Australia; indeed we have seen that happen around the world. Clearly there must be a limit to the amount we can allocate to meet health care expenses. 
In respect to the increases that the doctors have decided to charge as from 1 January next year, honourable members will understand that the Commonwealth Government has no power over the determination of the fees that doctors will charge. I have appealed to the Australian Medical Association and to the profession as a whole to exercise restraint in the setting of fees for the next year, commencing on 1 January 1977. The profession announced that doctors would increase their fees by 7½ per cent. For the whole of the year that increase was well within the bounds of the plateau indexation concept and I thought it was a very reasonable increase indeed. Notwithstanding that, I am mindful of the fact that while the Labor Government was in office doctors' fees rose by over 60 per cent in  2Vi  years. I hope that the medical profession has seen the need for restraint and will settle down to its professional task and show restraint, as other sections of the community are showing restraint. I have every confidence that the medical profession will do that. It was not intended that provision of a moiety should give doctors additional income. The provision was designed to bring about a general sense of responsibility as between providers and users of health care. 
I would like to reply to the second part of the question first. I hope that the proprietors of private nursing homes will not take any precipitate action. We hear these threats from time to time. Indeed, some nursing homes may be in a situation in which they are finding it difficult to continue. I am not impressed with threats that proprietors of private nursing homes might be making at a time when the Government is close to receiving a report from the committee of inquiry into the aged and sick aged. The Government will consider the possibility of making retrospective payments when the report of the committee of inquiry is being considered. But I certainly do not wish to commit the Government, to take any decision or to commit myself here at a time whilst I am awaiting that report. I do not want to pre-empt any of the recommendations which that committee might be inclined to make. I can assure the honourable member that the Government is very concerned and anxious about the problem. All I can do is give him an assurance that the Government will treat it in a compassionate, considerate and expeditious manner as soon as we have the report to hand. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is assumed that the reference to 'pension Medibank claim forms' means patient Medibank claim forms, since there is no special Medibank form for pensioners. The system of payment using patient Medibank claim forms, with regard to the 'Pay Doctor' system, has been changed recently to limit the extent to which paydoctor cheques are sent by Medibank directly to doctors, rather than via the claimant. Section 20 (2) of the Health Insurance Act requires that a pay doctor cheque should be given to the claimant, who then has responsibility for forwarding the cheque, together with any balance payable, to his doctor. 
and (3) This matter was raised at the Australian Medical Association Federal Council meeting in June of this year, by Medibank 's Medical Director. Subsequently there has been discussion between the A.M.A and Medibank concerning the change which has for the time being only been introduced in Victoria. It has been agreed that no further change will take place until after the A.M.A. Federal Council Meeting in October. 
While directing the cheque to the claimant addressed care of the doctor has advantages for the doctor, it has disadvantages for the claimant in that the accompanying Statement of Benefit then has to be returned to the claimant for taxation, claiming of'gap' insurance and personal record purposes. The change, therefore, benefits claimants. 

 Mr R. Cobden: Travel from Canberra to Sydney (Question No. 1078) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Provision has been made in the Medibank arrangements to accommodate membership of a Health Maintenance Organisation (HMO) as an acceptable form of cover in terms of exemption from the Medibank levy, provided that the HMO is approved in respect of the services it provides and other aspects of its mode of operation. 
Whilst tentative approaches have been made by several bodies expressing interest in HMOs, to date no firm proposals have been received. Consequently, there has been no investigation into the feasibility of specific proposals. 
Yes. I am aware of the comments attributed to  Mr Walker,  Actuary of the Hospitals Contribution Fund, in relation to the implications of the recent Medibank changes and the possible introduction of measures aimed at health maintenance. 

 Mr Walker has correctly recognised that health costs have now reached a level where alternative approaches to the provision and financing of health care warrant careful consideration. 

 Mr Walker's ideas essentially involve a system of bonuses in the form of reduced contributions and/or extra benefits for patients who keep healthy through preventive care, and additional benefits to doctors who keep their patients healthy and out of hospital. These proposals, as with all proposals which aim at quality care while containing costs, are being watched with interest. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to the table on page 1 16 of the Annual Report of the DirectorGeneral, Department of Social Security, for 1975-76, which gives information in relation to pensions paid overseas under the portability arrangements. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Tribunals prepare statistics showing appeals by category of pension or benefit. The statistics do not show the grounds for appeals or whether the appeals are against terminations or rejections. The great majority of appeals would be related to breaches of the work test. Statistics, which are prepared on a quarterly basis, are not yet available for the September quarter 1976. Figures for the last financial year are shown below. 
Yes. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) Because insufficient data is available, it is not possible to estimate what additional amounts of unemployment benefit may have been paid, or claims for the benefit made, if the restrictions referred to in parts (a) and (b) of the question had not been introduced. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In order to determine eligibility for special benefit a claimant must establish that he or she would experience hardship if special benefit were not paid. Where a person applies for short term special benefit because of ineligibility for another pension or benefit, it has been the practice in determining whether there is hardship to have regard to how much, money the person has readily available for support. This practice will continue to be followed where a person who is not eligible for a pension or benefit claims special benefit on hardship grounds. 
Yes. 
The new income test will apply to age, invalid and wives' pensions, widow's pension and supporting mother's benefit from 25 November 1976. Unemployment and sickness benefits are already payable subject to an income test. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
6 600 000. 
$ll,000,000(estimate). 
(a) $5,700,000; (b) $34,000,000 (estimate). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Council on Hospital Standards was established primarily to develop and publish standards for Australian hospitals and to introduce and maintain a program of hospital accreditation. The Council has been assisted in its work by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission by grants totalling $85,000 during the period 1 973-75. 
From 1 October 1975, the Kellogg Foundation has provided funds in support of the Council 's hospital accreditation program. This assistance, supplemented by revenue received from accreditation surveys of individual hospitals, has enabled the Council to advise the Commission that ordinary operating costs for the basic program will be adequately met. 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission has examined a proposal from the Australian Council on Hospital Standards seeking funds for the expansion of the current accreditation program during the trennium 1976-79. The Commission considered that it was not appropriate to recommend support for such an expansion at this time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l) 
At 30 June 1975, twelve women's refuges were in receipt of Commonwealth Government assistance, under the Community Health Program. 
At 31 December 1975, nineteen women's refuges were receiving such assistance. 
At 30 June 1976, nineteen women's refuges were receiving such assistance. 
At 30 June 1975, approximately $48,247 of Commonwealth funds had been spent by women's refuges. 
Expenditure figures for women's refuges as at 31 December 1975 and 30 June 1976 have not yet been finalised. However, Commonwealth monies transferred to women's refuges by State health authorities at those dates were $267,228 and $792,532, respectively. 
No specific allocations have been made by the Commonwealth to women's refuges in 1976-77. Consistent with the Government's federalism policies, Commonwealth financial assistance under the Community Health Program is now made available to the States by way of a single block grant for each State's program of community health projects as a whole, each financial year. 
As the State health authorities are regarded as having primary responsibility for the provision, or supervision, of health and health related services within the respective States, it is for them to decide what share of each annual block grant is to be provided to each project within the total State program. The purpose of these block grant arrangements has been to provide the States with increased administrative flexibility in the use of funds under the Community Health Program. 
As I indicated in my press statement of 20 May 1976, the Commonwealth's intention is that Commonwealth funds be available to enable projects previously approved under the  Community Health Program to be maintained at a viable level of activity in the 1976-77 financial year. Accordingly, the Commonwealth's intention is that funds be available for continuation of the nineteen previously approved women's refuges throughout 1976-77. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) No.- Following the introduction of maternity leave in the Australian Public Service my Department estimated that, as at December 1973, the full year cost of a scheme under which all pregnant women (working and nonworking) would qualify for a payment equivalent to the minimum weekly wage rate for adult females (then estimated to be $64.08 by the Commonwealth Statistician) for 1 2 weeks would be about $ 1 95 million. Because of reductions in the number of births and increases in wages since December 1973 (the current minimum weekly wage rate for adult females is $ 1 1 9.60 ) the current full year cost of such a scheme would be almost $325 million. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  is responsible for Public Service matters. 
The Public Service Board has advised that it does not have any information on costs of maternity leave or the number of Women employed in universities or colleges of advanced education. For the Australian Public Service alone (i.e. not including the statutory authorities and other areas of Commonwealth employment), the preliminary estimate of the cost of maternity leave in 1975-76 is in excess of $5 million. As regards an estimate of costs in 1976-77, if zero growth in the Australian Public Service and the same rate of utilisation of maternity leave as in 1975-76 are assumed, the cost this financial year would increase in the same proportion as Australian Public Service salaries increased over the twelve months. 
At June 1 976, 49 995 women were employed full-time in the Australian Public Service. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Under the Medibank Standard medical benefits arrangements and private medical insurance arrangements, benefits are provided for medical treatment rendered by legally qualified medical practitioners, certain prescribed medical services rendered by approved dentists in the operating theatres of approved hospitals, and optometrical consultations by participating optometrists. These arrangements do not, however, extend to assistance towards the cost of medical aids or appliances, such as artificial eyes, purchased privately by patients. At this stage there is no proposal to extend the schedule of medical benefits to provide benefits for such items. 
However, under the Medibank hospital arrangements with the States, a patient of a recognised (i.e. public) hospital is supplied with appliances free of charge by the hospital when it is considered necessary by the hospital in the ongoing treatment, care, rehabilitation etc., of the patient by the hospital. This benefit applies to both inpatients and outpatients. 
The practice of supplying surgical aids and appliances differs from hospital to hospital. Generally, the appliances supplied are the same as those supplied pre-Medibank and under the same conditions. Should a hospital not specialise in a certain field and consequently not provide appliances associated with that speciality, then of course it cannot be expected to undertake such responsibilities. State hospital authorities generally determine the services available from recognised hospitals and the Commonwealth Government has no direct responsibility for the types of services provided nor does it wish to interfere in States' decisions in this respect. 
The position in Victoria in regard to the supply of artificial eyes is that patients (including registered outpatients) of recognised hospitals who require an artificial eye or who require a replacement artificial eye for medical reasons are supplied free of charge. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Section 107 of the Social Services Act provides that a person is residentially qualified to receive unemployment benefit if he is residing in Australia on the date on which he lodges his claim, has been continuously resident in Australia for the twelve months immediately preceding that date or satisfies the Director-General that he is likely to remain permanently in Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Under the Nursing Homes Assistance Act the Commonwealth Government meets the approved operating deficits of eligible non-profit nursing homes which enter into an agreement with the Government for this purpose. Nursing home benefits, including the supplementary intensive care benefit, are not payable in respect of patients accommodated in such homes. 
The number of nursing homes approved under the provisions of this Act in each State as at 30 June 1976 was as follows: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There is no specific prohibition in the Social Services Act  on  the payment of benefits to a person who entered Australia illegally. 
In association with the amnesty arrangements for prohibited migrants announced earlier this year it was decided that applicants for amnesty could receive unemployment or sickness benefits if otherwise qualified. 
ABC Broadcasting Time: Government and Opposition  (Question No. 1371) 
I give credit to the honourable member for Canning for the interest that he has taken in quarantine matters and to other honourable members who have shown a great interest in this area. Because of reports which the honourable member for Canning made to me I decided to undertake a tour of north-western ports with the Director-General of my Department. The honourable member will be pleased to know that as a consequence of that visit we decided to appoint a full time quarantine inspector. The inspector took up duty on 11 October at Karratha. He is on temporary transfer from Perth. Permanent staffing arrangements for that location are under discussion with the Public Service Inspector in Western Australia. Two additional part-time quarantine assistants have been appointed to the Port Hedland area. This has effectively doubled the amount of surveillance of incoming vessels in the area. One of the things that really surprised us all was the tremendous turnaround of shipping that has developed in the area over a period of years. Perhaps past governments had not increased the staffing in that area to meet the actual needs. 
A tougher approach to breaches of quarantine requirements by ships' masters has been implemented and all Commonwealth directors have been instructed to proceed with prosecutions if a breach follows an initial warning on a current or subsequent visit to Australia. The Government is also looking at the penalties for breaches of quarantine laws. The Government feels that the current penalty of $500 is insufficient and is undertaking a review of all available quarantine manpower resources. I have had discussions with the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, expressing some concern about the quarantine surveillance during peak periods at major airports. Discussions are being held at the present time between the Minister for Defence, his Department and myself in relation to coastal surveillance in respect of quarantine matters. 
We are also looking at an improved rat guard which has been the subject of some concern to the honourable member for Canning. A new design is currently being tested and, hopefully, it will prove to be far more effective than the old one. We are also constructing incinerators at the airport in Perth and are considering the construction of an incinerator at Port Hedland to ensure adequate disposal of garbage from ships at that port. I can assure the honourable member that the Government is concerned to ensure that the no-risk policy in respect of quarantine is implemented in a proper manner at the northwest ports and elsewhere. 
-On behalf of the Government I commend the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and the Opposition for bringing this matter before the House for consideration and debate. The health of the Australian Aboriginal people undoubtedly is the biggest single public health problem confronting us in Australia. Diseases and disabilities such as yaws, leprosy, hookworm, trachoma, pulmonary infections, deafness and malnutrition are all serious problems afflicting the Aboriginal people in varying degrees depending on the standard of their living conditions. In the Northern Territory, to which the honourable member referred, the problem is very serious indeed because some of the living conditions of the people in the remote areas there are very poor. The high infant mortality rate and alcoholism also are very serious matters and are causing serious problems amongst these people. Undoubtedly we will have to continue to grapple with these problems. 
I would like to say early in my response to the honourable member that the Government will give very serious consideration to his request. We have the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs- a committee upon which I served for some 2 years- which works in a bipartisan fashion when inquiring into problems confronting Aboriginal people. I think it is in that bipartisan spirit that the Parliament and the people generally need to turn their attention to the problem. The suitability of that Committee to undertake this task would depend on the duration of its present inquiry into alcoholism amongst the Aboriginal people. Alcoholism, of course, as I said earlier, is one of the very serious problems. I do not know how long the present reference to that Committee will continue. I do not know whether we would be able to broaden that reference to the present Committee, which has a representation of considerable merit, so as to enable it to inquire into the matters that the honourable member for Fremantle has brought to the attention of the House. 
Both the former Government and this Government have shown real concern for the problem to which the honourable member referred. This is evidenced by the amount of money and the amount of effort being put into coming to grips with the problem. I have made some quick investigations, through the advisers from the Department of Health, into some of the matters that the honourable member raised. I understand that yaws is now quite rare. Leprosy remains a problem, but we must realise that patients remain on the register for years in order to ensure continuing supervision and care. Therefore very often the statistics that come to hand and become public knowledge tend to overestimate the problem of leprosy. I have a note which indicates that this year, I think, the number of registered leprosy patients in the Northern Territory was 820-1 stress that these are registered patients- but in the leprosarium, as of today, there are only 28 patients. However, we do not underestimate this problem. I have been to the leprosarium in Darwin and to the various settlements around the Northern Territory and have seen the evidence of the disease. Very few cases now are infectious and need isolation. I understand that there are 26 in Derby in Western Australia and some in the Darwin leprosarium. 
I speak as a layman and I notice that the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  is sitting opposite. He could speak with some knowledge because he is a medico. I understand that hookworm depends on the environmental conditions in which people live. Therefore it is very important to try to improve the environmental conditions of these people. I am told that there have been encouraging results from improving the environmental conditions of Aboriginal people in Queensland. Treatment campaigns and eradication campaigns have been conducted there to try to overcome this problem. In trying to eradicate hookworm we have to improve the environmental conditions of the people in those areas. 
The honourable member for Fremantle also referred to trachoma- a subject upon which he has extensive knowledge. The former Government initiated a task force to inquire into the problem of trachoma and the present Government has continued to fund that research activity. This year $570,000 is being made available to the Australian College of Ophthalmologists which is conducting a national campaign to try to find an effective method of treatment to overcome this disease. As the honourable member for Fremantle said, this disease is possible of eradication by means of proper medication and care. I wrote to the honourable member only today to give him further information following a question he put to me in the House on 19 October. That letter should be in his office at present. In it I said: 
As to your suggestion about recruitment of a task force I would like to remind you, as I announced earlier this year, that the Government is funding the Australian College of Ophthalmologists to undertake a national project for the treatment of trachoma and other eye conditions among Aboriginals. Currently the field team recruited by the College, in association with Departmental medical services in the Northern Territory, is providing treatment for trachoma among the Aboriginals. This would seem to meet the point you mentioned in the House. 
We also are interested in the work of Professor Ida Mann who undertook research for many years and came forward with a method of treatment. I think that treatment involves a pharmaceutical known as sulphonamide. 
No, it is sulphonamide. Since then other treatments have been put into effect and updated by the use of drops and tablets, which apparently have greater efficacy in the treatment of this disease. I do not think any of us should believe in any way that it will be an easy task to overcome all the specific diseases of the Aboriginal people if we do not really improve their living conditions. 
This takes me back to the real problem of alcoholism which is causing so much concern to health people throughout this country, and particularly those people who have a direct responsibility for trying to overcome the problems of the Aboriginal people. I refer to a report tabled in the Parliament on 7 October by the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  He said that only immediate action by the Government would stop Northern Territory Aborigines from destroying themselves. An article in the Sydney  Sun,  dated 7 October 1976, stated: 
Alcoholism could destroy the Aboriginal race in the Northern Territory, a parliamentary committee told the 
Federal Government yesterday. The seriousness of the problem forced the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs to present an unscheduled interim report to the Government 
The Government is currently examining the recommendations of that report. I pay a tribute to the members of that committee for the work they have already done in trying to come to grips with this serious problem which has an overriding effect upon the standard of health of the Aboriginal people. We cannot blame alcoholism for some of the diseases which are affecting them. Undoubtedly malnutrition and the state of health of the children can in some ways and in some instances be directly related to the living conditions of the Aboriginal people and to the degree of alcoholism which occurs. 
-The committee is looking at this problem. There is always an underlying reason for a behavioural pattern. Undoubtedly the Aboriginal people, because of their sense of insecurity and deprivation, have been influenced in some way to become the victims of alcoholism. This does not apply, of course, to every Aboriginal or to every family, but there is sufficient evidence for it to be of real concern to us. The honourable member for Fremantle mentioned the importance of recruitment in trying to get the right people into the field. I agree with him en- tirely. One of the real difficulties which the Government has and which the former Government would have had is in recruiting adequate manpower to try to deal with the problem. This is one of the real problems. We have to be very careful that we do not discourage people who have actually gone into the field, into the remote areas of the Northern Territory and Western Australia, and who have made great personal sacrifice in order to try to make a contribution to overcoming the serious problem. Undoubtedly that problem will remain with us for some time. 
I make an urgent appeal to any Australian, whether he be an Aboriginal or a white Australian, who feels that he has a background of experience or any knowledge which he can offer. I call on him to come forward and to offer that experience or knowledge to my department or to me so that we will have manpower resources available to us to help overcome the problem. Clearly there is a need in some areas of the Northern Territory for task forces to go out into the field and to work among Aboriginals. In the course of the care and treatment of the Aboriginals a lot of value can come from research activities. I do not think many of us know enough about the problem. I think that too many people try to approach the problem of Aboriginal health in the same way that they approach health problems in white communities. I believe that we need a lot of young, willing and enthusiastic people to make their services available to us as a government and to the State governments in trying to overcome this great problem which is besetting Australia's indigenous race. In conclusion I thank the honourable member for Fremantle for the contribution which he has always madeindeed, has made again today-in bringing to the Parliament an opportunity for us to debate and discuss this very real problem and for helping to focus public attention on what is Australia's biggest single community health problem. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Oriental Fruit Fly has not been discovered in any area outside that defined in Northern Australia in March, 1976. This area comprised 300 000 sq km of the top end of the Northern Territory. Apart from the location of a single damaged speciment at Kununurra in Western Australia in February, 1976, the pest has not been located in any State. 
During 1975 and 1976 extensive field surveys in the Northern Territory by inspectors experienced in fruit fly attack have failed to detect any infestation of commercial fruit. However, a specimen originating in a mango from Darwin in 1969 was incorrectly identified at that time. A subsequent re-identification in 1976 proved it to be Oriental Fruit Fly. 
In Northern Australia the monitoring program is being sustained at the March, 1976 level and this is considered adequate. Monitoring activities in other areas of the continent are the responsibility of State Governments. 
The honourable member for Prospect has asked a good question. This attitude developed amongst some general practitioners in country areas of New South Wales when Medibank was introduced last year although doctors were being offered what are regarded as fairly reasonable terms- a modified fee for service for the treatment of public patients in public wards. I am aware that certain advertisements have appeared in some country newspapers in New South Wales. I deplore the attitude that is adopted by some country practitioners in respect of public patients; that is those patients who have chosen to pay the  2Vi  per cent levy or pensioner patients who have not otherwise insured themselves. One of the principal reasons for making the modifications to Medibank was to try to achieve a general acceptance by the medical profession and others of giving a service to people who choose not to insure privately. The private practitioners will have at least 50 per cent of the Australian population privately insured. I should have thought that the present arrangements provided security for private medical practitioners in Australia. There is little that I can do, there is little that the Federal Government can do to overcome the problem to which the honourable member has referred. However, I have written to the Minister for Health in New South Wales drawing the matter to his attention. I hope that our officers can have some discussions to see whether this situation can be resolved. It is quite unfair for pensioners and other people who have chosen to pay a  2Vi  per cent levy to be treated in this manner by private practitioners. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
and (2) The information sought is not available as most of the pensioners concerned will need to have thenentitlement reassessed before the 'excess' or savings amounts can be calculated. These reassessments will be carried out on information to be supplied by the pensioners. Pension Income Statements for this purpose will be issued during November 1976. 
No pension is to be reduced by reason only of the change from the merged means test to the income test. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In recommending that the maximum quantity of Mogadon available as a pharmaceutical benefit be 25 tablets, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee was in agreement with the National Health and Medical Research Council that the continuous use of sleeping tablets (such as Mogadon) is not generally desirable. The Committee considers that the maximum quantity of 25 is adequate, in most instances, to establish a sleep pattern. 
It is recognised that for some patients the maximum quantity of 25 tablets may not be sufficient and provision exists to cover such cases whereby a doctor may, if he considers it to be in his patient's interest, apply to the Director of Health in his State for authority to prescribe a quantity in excess of the listed maximum. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Medical research in Australia is funded from a multiplicity of sources. As there is no register of research supported from private sources such as drug companies, private foundations and funds it is not possible to give an estimate of the total annual expenditure on research into allergic diseases. 
The Commonwealth Government finances medical research through the National Health and Medical Research Council. The Council supports at present the following three projects into allergic diseases at a cost of $43,000. 

 Dr A. J. Woolcock 'The pharmacological nature of bronchial hyperactivity in asthma' 

 Dr R. V. Southcott, 'Harmful effects to man from animals and plants' 

 Dr K. J. Turner, 'Immunological studies on allergic disease'. 
The six medical practitioner members of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee include two consultant physicians and a consultant paediatrician as well as two general practitioners and a neurologist. The Committee also includes a Professor of Therapeutics and Clinical Pharmacology. 
It was never envisaged that the Committee would provide from within its membership, expertise in all the many specialities of medicine and it does not include a specialist allergist. 
However, to keep abreast of the latest developments in the various fields of medicine, the Committee meets periodically with representatives of the various medical Colleges and Societies, including the Australian College of Allergists. In addition, the Committee from time to time seeks expert advice from specialists and specialist bodies where the Committee considers such action to be appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the terms of the Medibank hospital agreements an eligible person, other than a privately insured person, is entitled to receive care and treatment as a hospital patient in a recognised hospital free of charge and without means test. An eligible person who is a privately insured person, or who is not a privately insured person but elects to be treated as a private patient by the doctor of his or her choice, is to be charged in accordance with the scale of hospital charges set out in the agreement. No provision exists under the Medibank hospital agreements for the waiver of charges for pensioner patients admitted to recognised hospitals as private patients. 
Under the revised Medibank arrangements, the insurance provisions are such that if pensioners who are exempt from paying the levy, or who pay the levy, wish to retain the doctor of their choice whilst in hospital, they are able to contribute to a hospital insurance table to cover themselves for the $40 a day hospital charge applicable. The Government is subsidising this table in order to place it within the reach of the needy members of the community. As a result the contribution rates charged by Medibank (Private Insurance) and most private insurance funds are $1.30 per week for single coverage and $2.60 per week for family coverage. The Government considers these rates to be reasonable and within the reach of most pensioners and needy people who wish to ensure choice of doctor whilst in hospital. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
What was the total value of medical claims paid by Medibank in each State in each of the months of September and November 1975 and January and March 1976, and what was the expenditure in each State in the same months under the following headings in respect of (a) specialists and (b) general practitioners for (i) attendances, (ii) obstetrics, 
The information sought is not available in the form requested by the honourable member. I have however set out below details of payments by Medibank for the categories of services specified in respect of the half year ending December 1975 and for each of the March and June 1976 quarters. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following table in answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware of the circumstances which have prompted the question. I would very much like to have any information which the honourable member may have at his disposal so that I can examine what is suggested in the question and take appropriate action to overcome any disability which may occur as a result of what might be bad practice. 
It is refreshing to find that at least one honourable member is interested in fertility and not sterility. I assume that the honourable member for Wide Bay is referring to a drug known as clomid that is available for those people seeking to improve fertility. The National Health and Medical Research Council has, of course, made certain recommendations in respect of this technical matter. I know that the honourable member is interested in this matter as he mentioned it to me earlier. As a result I have obtained some information for him. 
It is very short. The National Health and Medical Research Council recommended in 1967 that these preparations should be available to medical practitioners with specialised knowledge and experience in this type of therapy and using laboratories to ensure proper control of therapy. The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee considers it desirable that the drug concerned should be made available as a pharmaceutical benefit but can see no satisfactory means of achieving this end at present due to differing interpretations of the Council's recommendation by the various States and State health authorities. The situation is unfortunate. However my Department is keeping this matter under review. As soon as we have a more common approach amongst the States we will be able to have this drug referred once again to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee for consideration and hopefully a recommendation that it be included as a benefit under the pharmaceutical benefits list. 
It is not the function of the Minister to direct the Health Insurance Commission how it shall publish its report. I assure the honourable member that as soon as the report is published and is available for tabling in this Parliament I will table it. I expect that the Health Insurance Commission will honour the undertaking that it gave in the previous report, but that will be a matter for the Commission. It is not a matter on which I would direct the Commission. 
This is a fairly detailed question. I will supply the details to the honourable member later. The Government's decision to terminate the special financial arrangements with the States under which the anti-tuberculosis campaign has been funded throughout Australia since 1948 was based on the fact that the campaign had achieved its aim of bringing tuberculosis in this country under control, in the knowledge that the States have been fully equipped with adequate beds and other facilities under the financial arrangements to enable them to maintain an adequate level of control of tuberculosis as part of their normal public health responsibilities and on the fact that the hospital costs of treating tuberculosis, which had earlier formed a large proportion of the reimbursements to the States under those arrangements, are now being met under the Medibank hospital agreements. A decision as to whether mass X-ray surveys should continue as part of their normal public health responsibilities is properly one for the States to take. We are having discussions with the States. I have written to all the State Ministers concerned. I am still waiting on replies from them. Some of the States have not been happy that we have vacated this field, but I think there is a general acceptance among them that since it is part of the public health programs that a State government normally would undertake it is not a hard decision in the longer term. We will maintain the National Tuberculosis Advisory Councila Commonwealth-State body- which will continue to monitor the incidence of tuberculosis in this country. Discussions are still going on with the States about the responsibilities they will accept. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that renal units- that is special units staffed by fully qualified renal physicians or nephrologistsare located at the following hospitals: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No.- $A928 was paid to the Karolinska Institute in Sweden in June 1975 and $A780 paid to the University of Maryland in September 1975. An amount of $A65 was paid to LEP Transport for freight and forwarding charges associated with the consignment from the University of Maryland. 
Evaluate Calaid hearing aids using techniques normally applied by the organisations concerned and provide comment on their characteristics. 
Technical results of tests and some comment have been received. Further reports are expected in some months. 
The reports will become available progressively over an extended period and they are technically complex. I do not consider them suitable for tabling. However, I will make them available to any honourable member who may wish to peruse them. 
Anti-dumping Applications from Agricultural and Horticultural Industries (Question No. 1323) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is set out in the following schedule: 
-The Government has undertaken a program to treat trachoma and other eye diseases amongst Aborigines throughout Australia. We have allocated $570,000 through health program grants to the Australian College of Ophthamologists for this purpose. A task force under the control of Professor Hollows has been in the central Australian area, and during the course of its survey in that area it actually screened 8300 people, including 7700 Aboriginal people. More recently, the task force has undertaken field work in the Borroloola area of the Northern Territory, working towards the top end of the Territory. I take this opportunity to compliment Professor Hollows and those who are associated with his team on the excellent job they are doing. 
I have already made a public announcement through the media that a new phase of the Commonwealth Government's national trachoma and eye program is under way and will accelerate towards the end of this month. A surgical team from the Australian College will undertake a series of eye operations on Aborigines in remote areas of South Australia who come from the central region of that part of the inland. The team will be working in a mobile field hospital set up by the Army. I should like to pay some tribute to the work of the Army and to thank the Minister for Defence for the co-operation he has given the team in central Australia. The hospital, complete with a sterile operating theatre, will be established by the Army unit in the Amata Reserve some 400 kilometres south west of Alice Springs. So the survey is well and truly underway. This innovation could well lead to other similar task forces going into the Northern Territory. But, of course, this does not relieve any of us of the responsibility to improve the conditions and the environment in which Aboriginal people live because these factors undoubtedly do contribute to the health of the people of Central Australia and elsewhere. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Medical Benefits Schedule, prior to 1 October 1976, contained no pathology items with differential benefits for specialist services. Thus, although many pathology services were referred by other medical practitioners, there was no requirement for the pathologist to be a specialist and, as a result, to be recognised as a specialist. In addition, no referral details were required by Medibank in order to assess the level of benefits. 
The answer to Part 3 of the question (without the specialist-pathologist breakdown) is as follows: 
Number of pathology claims with 1 item- 527 770 
Number of pathology claims with 2 items- 107 1 84 
Number of pathology claims with 3 items- 72 006 
Number of pathology claims with 4 items-42 399 
Number of pathology claims with 5 items- 28 366 
Number of pathology claims with 6 items or more- 55 874 
These figures relate to claims for the period 1 May to 30 June 1976 only, as representative of the year 1975-76. They are available from a special study which was carried out in relation to pathology usage and similar statistics are not currently available for the other months in 1975-76 to provide data for the periods requested would mean substantial delay because computer facilities are heavily pressed in relation to the carryover of the original Medibank arrangements and the new operations. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The report of the interdepartmental Committee on South Sea Islanders living in Australia has not yet been received. 
The Committee's work is nearing completion following the conclusion of an extensive survey which has been carried out in coastal Queensland and Northern New South Wales. Considerable preliminary fact-finding work was necessary as previously there was no accurate assessment of the numbers of descendants of Islanders now in Australia nor of their living conditions. 
The Committee expects to complete its work during December this year and, when the report is received, the question of whether it should be tabled will be considered. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member 's question. 
1 ) In response to an Australian invitation the following countries indicated their interest in the possibility of entering into negotiations for reciprocal agreements on social security: 
I am aware of the reports that some doctors in some country centres- the emphasis is on 'some'- are providing limited honorary service to Medibank patients pending the resolution of a dispute which has occurred between the New South Wales Health Commission and the Austraiian Medical Association in New South Wales. As I said a week or so ago, I deplore the fact that some doctors in New South Wales are behaving in this way. I recognise that a difference of opinion exists between the New South Wales Health Commission and the doctors concerned. This problem is not occurring in all country centres but certainly it is occurring in isolated country towns. Where it is occurring I appeal to doctors and to all concerned to try to resolve a situation that is not in the best interests of the public or of the medical profession. 
I have been in touch with the Minister for Health of New South Wales and have offered him any help that I can give to try to resolve what I regard to be a most unfortunate set of circumstances. Officers of my Department have been in touch with the New South Wales Health Commission to try to get a complete briefing on this situation so that we may be in a position to give the assistance that may be necessary. It is surely time that the minority of doctors concerned recognise that the modifications that we have made to Medibank do ensure viable private medical practice in Australia. Because of that I expect the minority of doctors concerned in the country areas of New South Wales to do the right and proper thing by those people who choose to stay with Medibank Standard and to pay their  Vh  per cent levy, and particularly the pensioners who have a right to hospital and medical treatment free of any cost to them. 
The answer to the first question is: Yes, an assurance can be given that no pensioner will have his pension reduced by reason only of the change from the merged means test, which takes into account income and property, to the new income test which will take effect as from 25 November this year. 
I shall go on and give the honourable member the actual facts. If a person's pension has been affected by property in the past the Department of Social Security will reassess entitlement under the new income test. In many cases the reassessment will result in an increased pension. The reassessment may indicate that some people's pensions should be reduced, but the Government decided that no one's existing pension will be reduced as a result of the change to the income test. However, such beneficiaries will not get any further increase in pension until they are entitled to a higher amount under the income test. This is regarded to be a very fair way to take into account that particular problem. The position will be similar in respect of eligibility for a pensioner health benefit card. No one will lose it when the new income test is introduced merely because of the change to an income test. Furthermore, the change to the new income test will mean that some pensioners will for the first time be entitled to a pensioner health benefit card and to standard Medibank cover without paving the Medibank levy. Pensioners who receive age, invalid or widows pensions or supporting mothers benefits from the Department of Social Security will not pay tax if they have no other income. The invalid pension paid to men under 65 years of age or women under 60 years of age is not taxable. However, people receiving income in addition to a pension may have to pay tax. As the honourable member for Darling Downs has said, it is true that some pensioners who are in receipt of income above a certain level other than a pension will be paying tax as a result of the Hayden Budget that was introduced last year. However, every action has been taken to ensure that nobody will be disadvantaged as a result of the new arrangements that have been made by this Government in the current Budget. 
by leave- The House will be pleased to learn that the Government has agreed on the need to proceed urgently with the contraction of a high security off-shore animal quarantine station. Subject to satisfactory arrangements concerning the site, the station will be established on Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
-That is the site that was recommended in 1973 by the Public Works Committee. I am sure that the honourable member for Wakefield will be delighted with that decision. The Government is anxious to ensure that maximum opportunities exist for Cocos Islanders to be employed in the construction of the station and that it will be of direct economic benefit to them. The station will be used for the importation of genetically superior animals which, for quarantine reasons, are now prohibited entry into this country. The Station will therefore be instrumental in the development and proliferation of livestock herds which are better adapted to our environmental conditions. The result will be increased unit productivity, reduced costs of pest control, and reduced production losses arising from pests and parasites. 
-These factors are of general importance but are particularly relevant to our vast beef producing operations in the northern areas of Australia. For the cattle industry alone, it has been estimated that tick eradication measures and production losses from that pest approximate $40m per annum. That sum is far less than it cost the industry as a result of the other pest to which the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  referred. Further, increasing costs are reducing the use of tickicides with consequential and compounding adverse effects on productivity. The development of genetically tick resistant herds is a practical answer. This has become an economic necessity. 
Under present quarantine arrangements, live cattle, sheep and pigs are a prohibited importation from all countries except New Zealand. Animals of most genetic value to Australia are not generally procurable from that country. The risk of disease now precludes direct importation from such countries as Africa, Japan, Indonesia and India where proven tick resistant strains are available. When the off-shore station is available it will be possible to arrange importation from any of these countries without disease risk. The establishment of the station is therefore the only means by which Australia can obtain direct access to the best genetic material available in a number of countries, without exposing our livestock industries to an otherwise unacceptable disease risk. This is a practical and responsible approach to the needs of Australia and the realities of the disease risk which we constantly face. 
The proposal has the strong support of the Australian Agricultural Council and of agricultural interests throughout Australia. I might point out that Australia is the only major agricultural livestock producer which does not have access to facilities of this kind. We are therefore at a relative disadvantage with our competitors on world markets until the station is established. The Government's decision has been made in the light of the direct and substantial benefit which will accrue to Australia's livestock industries and hence to Australia and Australians generally. It is the Government's intention that negotiations with the Clunies-Ross Estate on all issues concerning the availability of the site for the station should be commenced as soon as possible. 
I look forward to an early and satisfactory resolution of all issues so that the project can be commenced without delay. Construction costs are estimated at $6.36m which it is expected would be spread over three consecutive financial years. Commencement of construction would be subject to availability of funds. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) and (2 ) There is no discrimination against any particular group of blind pensioners relative to other blind pensioners under the Social Services Act. If the Honourable Member is referring to the decision ofthe previous Government to tax the pensions payable to blind pensioners of age pension age, this is a matter for consideration by my colleague, the Treasurer. 
Eucalyptus Dives, Piperitone, Menthol and Cineole  (Question No. 1446)  Mr Lloyd  asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the import duty or tariff quota on (a) eucalyptus dives, peritone or menthol and (b) cineole. 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Australian Shipping Commission Act 1956 I present the annual report of the Australian Shipping Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-(Gwydir-Minister for Health)For the information of honourable members I present the report on the working and administration of the Department of Transport during the year ended 30 June 1976, including those matters on which the Minister for Transport is required to report pursuant to section 29 of the Air Navigation Act 1 920. 
-(Gwydir-Minister for Health)For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped for the year ended 30 June 1976 together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to that report. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to a decision of the Government which will remove from the political arena the important question of the fees to be paid to pharmacists for the supply of pharmaceutical benefits to members of the public. This Bill will bring to an end the acrimony that has developed over the years between the pharmacists and successive Governments. This will be to the lasting advantage of the smooth administration of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. The Bill will achieve this by providing for the establishment, as a separate entity, of the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements. It provides that the  Chairman  may determine the manner in which the Commonwealth price to pharmaceutical benefits is to be ascertained and that his determinations shall have the force of law. In essence, this means that the  Chairman  will have the ultimate responsibility for deciding what remuneration will be paid to pharmaceutical chemists in respect of the pharmaceutical benefits supplied to the public through them and that his determinations will be binding on both the Government and the Pharmacy Guild. 
Under the National Health Act as it now stands the Minister shall make such determinations after consultation with the Pharmacy Guild of Australia. Since 1964, consultation has usually been through the medium of the Joint Committee which the then Minister for Health established administratively for the purpose. Although the Minister for Health receives the advice of the Joint Committee he has not been bound to accept it and this has in recent times led to disputes with the Pharmacy Guild. After lengthy negotiations with the Guild, the Government has agreed that, because of the importance of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme to Australians generally decisions on the remuneration of pharmacists in respect of that scheme should be made by an independent authority. 
The Joint Committee to be formally established by this Bill will consist of a  Chairman  who shall be a  Deputy President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and 8 other members. Four members shall be nominated by the Pharmacy Guild of Australia and the other 4 shall be officers of the Public Service. The  Chairman  will be empowered to make his determinations after the Committee has had an opportunity to consider the matter. He will be bound to make his determination in accordance with the Committee's recommendations if the Committee is unanimous. If the members disagree, he may inform himself in such manner as he thinks fit, and then finally determine the matter. The power to determine the conditions subject to which the payments will be made by the Commonwealth will remain vested in the Minister. These conditions relating to the supply of pharmaceutical benefits are, in the main, routine administrative procedures which are best handled this way. The Minister will, however, be empowered to request a report on the matter from the  Chairman  of the Committee if he so wishes. 
The Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme has over the years proved of inestimable value to all Australians and the Government is determined to ensure that it continues in a viable form. Determination of chemists' remuneration is an important factor in the continued viability of the Scheme. An independent authority to determine these aspects should ensure greater co-operation, and, through that, an improved Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme can result. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937, 1 present a report on the work done under that Act during 1974. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to make some necessary amendments to the United States Naval Communication Station Civilian Employees) Act as a consequence of the change in citation of the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act, provided under clause 3 of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1 976. The Act is a companion piece of legislation which automatically extends the terms of the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act to civilians employed by the United States Navy at the naval communication station at North West Cape. This Bill will ensure that the increased rates of compensation being introduced under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1976 will be payable under the Act. I should mention, however, that the flow-on of increases in compensation to these employees will not result in any cost to the Commonwealth Government because, under arrangements with the United States Government, payments made under the Act are reimbursed by that Government. 
The amendments contained in clauses 3 to 7 of the Bill are of a formal nature and make no changes of substance. The amending legislation is intended to come into operation on 1 September 1976. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to increase the rates and amounts of compensation payable under the Seamen's Compensation Act to seamen and their dependants. The Bill will ensure that the monetary rates payable under the Act are kept in line with those contained in the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1976. I should mention, however, that the proposed amendments will not involve any cost to the Commonwealth Government as payments under the Seamen's Compensation Act are the responsibility of the shipowners. 
Increased Compensation 
Under clause 7 of the Bill the weekly compensation for total incapacity for work is to be increased from $57 to $80 for a seaman without dependants. The additional weekly supplement for the dependent wife will be increased from $ 1 5 to $2 1 and for each dependent child from $7 to $10. The ceiling which applies in certain circumstances in relation to the weekly payment for partial incapacity is to be increased from $57 to $80. In addition to the increases in weekly incapacity payments, the Bill provides for the lump sum death benefit, to which the lump sum benefits for specified injuries and maximum compensation are related, to be increased from $20,000 to $25,000. The weekly payment in respect of each dependent child of a deceased seaman will be increased from $7 to $10 and the maximum payable in respect of funeral costs will be increased from $450 to $650. 
Other Amendments 
Clause 3 removes the limit of $1,000 on the amount of compensation payable in respect of medical and ambulance services. This limit currently applies unless, in the opinion of the Minister, the exceptional circumstances of any case warrant payment of an amount in excess of $1,000. The same limit also applied in relation to Commonwealth Government employees but it was dispensed with in 1971 because the practical effect of the limit was to constitute a point of review and never a ceiling on the amounts paid. Similar considerations apply so far as the Seamen's Compensation Act is concerned and this is the reason for this amendment. 
Clause 6 of the Bill removes a restrictive provision contained in sub-section 10A(2) of the Act. The existing provision prevents a seaman, or his dependants in the case of his death, from proceeding against the employer to recover damages unless the proceedings are commenced within 12 months of the date of receipt of the first payment of compensation. The effect of this amendment will be that the ordinary time limits relating to actions for damages will apply. This has been the practice in relation to Commonwealth Government employees since 1971, and the Government considers that seamen should be placed in the same position. 
Clause 7, in addition to providing for some of the increases in benefits already mentioned, also includes provisions relating to the weekly payments in respect of dependent children in both death and incapacity cases. Under these amendments such payments will be made in respect of children aged between 16 and 21 years who are full time students not ordinarily in employment. This will bring the Seamen's Compensation Act into line with the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act and the workers' compensation legislation of the States. The opportunity has also been taken to make some minor amendments of a formal or technical nature in keeping with current drafting practice. These amendments make no changes of substance. 
Application of Amendments 
The amending legislation is intended to come into operation on 1 September 1976. The Bill follows past practice in providing for the increased weekly payments to apply from that date, notwithstanding that the payments relate to an injury sustained or disease contracted before that date. Likewise, the increased lump sum payments for death and specified injuries will also apply from 1 September 1976 in all cases where the death occurs or the final degree of injury becomes assessable after that date, even though the death or the specified injury may have resulted from an injury sustained or disease contracted before that date. Increases in other benefits will apply in a similar manner. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now  read  a  second  time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide for increases in benefits payable under the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act which provides workers ' compensation for employees of the Commonwealth Government and its statutory authorities. This legislation was last amended for this purpose during the 1974 Budget session of the Parliament. Since then there have been significant increases in the cost of living and in the benefits payable under the workers' compensation legislation of most of the States. It is therefore necessary and, indeed, only fair that the benefits under the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act should again be increased. 
Compensation for Total Incapacity 
Employees who have been injured since 2 November 1972 are entitled to receive weekly compensation payments equal to their normal full sick pay rate during the first  26  weeks of total incapacity for work. For long term cases where total incapacity has exceeded  26  weeks, the compensation is based on fixed weekly rates that are specified in the Act. Under the Bill, the fixed weekly rate for a totally incapacitated employee without dependants will increase from  $57  to  $80.  The additional weekly supplement for a dependent spouse will increase from  $15  to  $21  and the weekly supplement for each dependent child will increase from  $7  to $  10. 
Compensation for Partial Incapacity 
A similar increase, from  $57  to  $80  a week, will also apply to the ceiling which operates in relation to the compensation payable for partial incapacity for work. 
Compensation for Death 
The Bill also provides for increases in the amounts of compensation payable where an injury results in the death of an employee. The basic lump sum payable to dependants will increase from  $20,000  to  $25,000.  The weekly amount payable in respect of each dependent child of a deceased employee will increase from  $7  to  $10  and the minimum total amount payable for each child will increase from  $700  to  $1,000.  The maximum amount payable in respect of funeral expenses will increase from  $450  to  $650. 
Compensation for Specified Losses 
The lump sums payable under the Act for specified losses will also increase. The maximum lump sum payment for such a loss will increase from  $20,000  to  $25,000  and the lump sums for the less serious losses will increase in the same proportion. For example, payments for severe and permanent facial disfigurement will increase from  $10,000  to  $12,500  and compensation for loss of the sense of taste or smell will increase from  $2,000  to  $2,500. 
Other Increases 
The maximum amount payable for alterations to buildings or vehicles, or repair or replacement of certain aids and appliances, will go up from  $500  to  $700. 
Provision of Vocational Training 
The amendment in clause  5  of the Bill is consequential upon a  1974  amendment to the Social Services Act and requires a detailed explanation. Under section  38 ( I)  of the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act, the Commissioner for Compensation is empowered to arrange with the Director-General of Social 
Security for compensation cases to undertake rehabilitation vocational training using the rehabilitation service of the Department of Social Security. It is desirable that both compensation and social service beneficiaries undergoing this training be dealt with on a similar basis. 
In  1974,  section  135D  of the Social Services Act was amended to provide a training allowance for social service beneficiaries that equals the weighted average weekly minimum wage appropriate to the person's age. It took the place of the rehabilitation allowance and a smaller training allowance that were payable before  1974.  This opportunity is being taken to amend the Compensation Act to take account of the  1 974  amendment to section  135D  of the Social Services Act. Because compensation cases undergoing training continue to receive compensation benefits, the amendment provides that the training allowance is an amount (if any), by which the person's normal weekly compensation benefit is less than the weighted average minimum wage appropriate to his age. This will mean that no person receiving compensation payments and undergoing rehabilitation vocational training, will receive less than the person receiving social services benefits undergoing similar training. Both will receive at least the weighted average weekly minimum wage appropriate to their age. 
It should be noted that no training allowance is payable where a person undergoing vocational training is receiving a compensation payment equal to or in excess of the weighted average weekly minimum wage. For both compensation and social service beneficiaries undergoing training, a living away from home allowance is also payable where appropriate. It is an amount determined by the Director-General of Social Security that does not exceed  25  per cent of the weighted average weekly minimum wage appropriate to the person's age. 
Other Amendments 
The opportunity has also been taken to make some other amendments of a relatively minor nature. The first of these, in clause  3  of the Bill, is consequential upon the new form of citation proposed in the Acts Citation Act  1976.  The amendment in clause  4  will clarify a provision regarding costs that was inserted in the Act in  1974.  The amendment in clause  6  is consequential upon a change in other legislation referred to in the principal Act. The remaining amendments to the principal Act are set out in clause  8  and schedule  2  and are of a formal or technical nature. They are in keeping with current drafting practice and make no changes of substance. 
Application of Amendments 
The Bill provides that the amendments will come into operation on 1 September 1976. The Bill contains the usual provisions for the increased weekly payments to apply from that date, notwithstanding that the payments relate to an injury sustained before that date. The increased lump sum payments for death and specified losses will also apply from 1 September 1976 in all cases where the death occurs or the loss is suffered after that date, even though the death or the loss may have resulted from an injury sustained before that date. Increases in other benefits will apply in a similar manner. 
Cost of Increased Benefits 
The total cost of the increased benefits authorised by the Bill is estimated to be $ 1.77m in a full year. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The causative organism Babesia equi was not known to have been present in Australia prior to confirmation on 8 October 1976 that a single horse had contracted the disease. It is therefore most likely that an infected imported horse introduced the organism to Australia. There is, however, no means of establishing the precise mode of entry or the approximate date of introduction. 
Horses may only be imported into Australia from the United Kingdom, Ireland and New Zealand. Horses imported into Australia from the United Kingdom and Ireland now undergo pre-export testing with negative result for piroplasmosis (including B. equi), equine infectious anaemia and vesicular stomatitis. They are also vaccinated against equine influenza. Horses from New Zealand may be imported subject to a general health certificate and a prior period of residency in Australasia of 6 months. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. For the further information of the honourable member, I understand that the World Health Organisation has accepted 'Australian Encephalitis' as the preferred nomenclature in the Ninth Revision of the International Classification of Diseases, to come into effect internationally in 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Tetrachloro-diberizo-para-dioxin (TCDD) or Dioxin' may be a trace contaminant in the herbicide 2,4,5-T. The National Health and Medical Research Council has recommended to the States that 2,4,5-T containing more than 0.1 ppm of TCDD should not be permitted for use as a herbicide in Australia and that there should be a maximum residue limit of 0.02 ppm of 2,4,5-T permitted in water. 
The Dioxins are not manufactured or formulated in Australia. 
No, the process used at Seveso is not carried out in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Avocado fruit from California may only come from certified sources and are inspected carefully on arrival and treated if necessary. 
I have received representations expressing concern about the possible introduction of diseases, but I am assured that present quarantine arrangements, which are strictly enforced, are designed to prevent entry of avocado fruit which could present a disease risk to the Australian industry. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) To my knowledge no overall survey covering both the regularity of contact with a general practitioner or the regularity of contact with a specific general practitioner has been undertaken. Surveys in limited and non-typical geographic areas have been carried out on patientpractitioner contact. These would not form a valid basis for information to the honourable member. 
3 ) No studies of the type indicated are known to me. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as forllows 
Yes. 
(a) Yes. (b) Yes. (c) The Committee has now recommended that the availability of the cows' milk substitutes, soya formula, Nutramigen and goats' milk, as pharmaceutical benefits be amended to include the treatment of cows' milk allergy in children under the age of two (2) years. This recommendation is to take effect from 1 April 1977. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, before I go on to develop my argument in support of the changes that this Government has made, I wish to answer two or three of the points that have been made in this debate. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  said that everyone pays the levy. That is not correct. This may have been a sweeping statement that he made generally. But 75 per cent of our pensioners who have health benefit cards do not pay the levy. Those people on the lowest incomes do not pay the levy, so the ceiling is not a burden on the poor, because the poor do not pay the levy. Without a ceiling what would be the position? The Government looked at the possibility of applying a levy without a ceiling. We found that this would be most severe on 2-income families. Sixty per cent of Australian families would be worse off under the plan submitted by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which proposed a 1.6 per cent levy without a ceiling. So let us not assume that the without-ceiling concept provides a more equitable system to a greater number of people. I do not believe that it does. 
With respect to the increasing charges to which the honourable member has referred, I point out that even under his former Medibank scheme 70 per cent of Australians remained privately insured for hospital cover, so there was a cost in respect of the operations of those insurance schemes operated by the private health insurance funds. But one fact is certain: Now that we have a competitor in the market- I refer to Medibank Private with all its efficiency in the field- competition will be provided amongst all of the private health insurance funds. Perhaps we shall see more efficiency in the area of the administration of private health insurance. 
I think the Opposition believes in the old adage that memories are short. It is rather hypocritical for the Opposition to launch a campaign against the Government on the grounds of its bad economic management. Early in January this year we began an in-depth survey of the economic prospects in this country and it became abundantly clear that we had a very grim scene in front of us. We had inherited a monumental mess. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who proposed this matter for discussion, was the third Treasurer in 6 months. I think he was unfortunate as a Treasurer because he too inherited a monumental mess and one of the greatest examples of economic mismanagement in our time. It soon became clear that if the expenditure rate had continued we would have had a Budget deficit of no less than $5,000m in that financial year, and the forward estimates for this financial year would have been even greater. Therefore, consistent with the Government's objective, we decided that inflation had to be checked and government expenditure reined in where possible. This required some urgent, hard and, to some extent, unpopular decisions. There was no other responsible way out. 
We inherited an inflation rate of about 15 per cent and the worst unemployment since the Great Depression of the 1930s, and the business and industrial sector had been drained of confidence. In attacking the budgetary situation, which one has to attack if one is serious about trying to overcome the inflationary situation, we found that there were 4 ways of reducing the overall Budget deficit. The first was to increase taxation, but we decided that we did not want to do that. The second was to print more money. A former Treasurer tried to do that, but was not successful. The third was to reduce the rate of increase in government spending, and we chose that course. The fourth was to borrow money to try to overcome the problem. We chose the third option which meant that we would prune back the overgrown bushes of public expenditure, hoping for some self-sustained spring growth. Against the general background of economic disorder, we looked at the exploding health treatment costs and the efficiency of universal health insurance in its existing form. We set up a Medibank Review Committee which went to work in January this year. It had very wide ranging terms of reference against 3 important criteria: Medibank and universal health insurance were to be retained and there was to be no means test at the point of service to the patient. We were mindful of what such schemes had done to the economies of the United Kingdom, Canada and elsewhere where there was no restraint on costs. We wanted to ensure that Medibank did not consume the social dollar. Quite clearly, it had an appetite to do so. 
As part of our overall economic appraisal we turned to health care costs in a substantial way and we found that health care costs in Australia were exploding at an even faster rate than the record inflation. Without our changes the total government and private health treatment and health care costs for this financial year were estimated to be $5,400m. That is an enormous sum when compared with the value of iron, wool, coal, wheat and meat exports, which were valued at $4,500m for the previous financial year. Hospital and medical costs were estimated to be $3,320m this year. We estimated that the cost of Medibank itself would reach the order of $2,000m which would be a direct burden upon Consolidated Revenue. We also found that over a period of 1 1 years the Commonwealth share of health costs had increased by 10 times, from $260m in 1963-64 to $2,500m in 1975-76. There were allegations of rip-offs, overuse and abuse. Some doctors were even complaining that they had doubled their incomes in the first 12 months of the operation of Medibank. We had the openended hospital cost sharing agreements with the States, with no opportunity for the Commonwealth Government to have any say in the Budgets or the variations thereto. 
So Medibank Mark 1 had achieved universal health coverage, but in the characteristic style of the former Government it was at the expense of disregarding economy and efficiency. It provided few incentives to economy by individuals or the medical profession. It placed on the State and Federal governments virtually the whole burden of basic medical and hospital financing, not just for those needing assistance but also for those who could afford to make a greater contribution. 
It threatened the continuance of private medical practice in hospitals. About 70 per cent of the population continued to privately insure, indicating that this was a trend that the Australian people were anxious to preserve. Public hospital charges were uneconomic and unrealistic. 
After a full inquiry 2 things became clear. The first was that changes needed to be made to constrain costs, to give incentives to keep costs down, to encourage efficiency in the State hospitals and to push ahead with preventive medicine and health and community programs. The latter is something to which I hope the Government will be turning more attention in the future. Secondly, it became clear that financing other than just out of the general tax pool was absolutely necessary. I think the Government, the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions were agreed on that principle. The point at issue was the way in which we applied the levy. We decided on an optional system because we believed that we would be able to create a competitive situation, particularly with respect to private medical practitioners. We believe that, in restructuring Medibank and universal insurance in the way we have, we have not been inequitable to the lower income people. At the same time we have given an incentive to the private practitioners of this country to be careful ow they raise their fees, because if their fees rise faster than average weekly earnings quite clearly the premiums will go up and people will leave their private insurance funds and stay with Medibank Standard which will be the lowest cost, quality health care insurance. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The information requested by the honourable member is not available from Departmental sources. However, my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, and myself have arranged an examination of,  inter alia,  the question of consumer representation. 
I would expect that, in the course of this examination, as much relevant information as possible will be sought, and if the information sought by the honourable member becomes available, I will be only too happy to provide it for him. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. The voluntary code of advertising of alcoholic beverages as dicussed and amended by the Working Party and liquor industry representatives, and subsequently endorsed by the 1976 Health Minister's Conference, has been accepted by the Government. 
The liquor industry has shown itself to be aware of its responsibilities by voluntary acceptance of an advertising code. As the code is voluntary it is not intended that a formal policing mechanism should be established. It is anticipated the Working Party will monitor the code and that there will be regular meetings of the Working Party and liquor industry representatives at which the operation of the code will be discussed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Medical research is supported by the Commonwealth Government through the National Health and Medical Research Council which has an overall interest in supporting all types of high-quality medical research. It would be an oversimplification of the position to say, as far as NH and MRC support is concerned, that cancer and heart disease receive more support than basic biological research. Firstly, the principal criterion used to determine support is high scientific merit and, secondly, research in a great may intances covers both basic and applied areas. Thus, while a project may be generally related to cancer, it could be heavily oriented towards basic biological research or, alternatively, while having a strong clinical emphasis, it could also extend basic knowledge. 
All applications for project grant support are evaluated by a peer review system and the Council's Medical Research Advisory Committee before being recommended for support Only projects of the highest scientific merit attract support. 
The following information shows the break-up of initial applications approved for 1977 support. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the purpose of answering this question, a 'community health centre is defined as a community located facility which has the characteristics of a general health service as distinct from a specialised service (e.g. mental health, alcoholism), which provides two or more categories of service (e.g. medical, nursing, therapy, counselling), and which may or may not provide general practitioner services. 
The following information has been provided or confirmed by the relevant State health authorities: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The Priorities Review Staff Report on Early Childhood Services tabled on 30 July 1 974 refers to ' a scheme for classifying local government areas according to need' developed by the Social Welfare Commission, and went on to give some examples of local government areas for the three categories of highest priority as put forward in that scheme. 
The table below sets out by State and by time period of the initial approval related to each particular centre, the number of centres approved for assistance under the Child Care Act 1972 in each of the three categories of highest priority of the five-point rating scale developed by the Social Welfare Commission. 
In all, 232 child care centres have been approved for capital and /or recurrent assistance under the Child Care Act to date. Of these five are in the Australian Capital Territory and three in the Northern Territory. 
The 101 other centres or proposed other centres in the States for which capital and/or recurrent grants have been approved are located in local government areas of a higher socio-economic category than those specified in the above table. 
In this regard, three points are made: the socio-economic category rating is a broad scheme that does not specifically identify pockets of need in otherwise relatively affluent areas; the placement of child care centres needs to take into account such factors as major transport routes and thus convenience to clients who may not necessarily live in the immediate area of the centre; a number of centres being assisted under the Child Care Act existed before that legislation was enacted. 
The honourable member's attention is drawn to the situation that assistance has also been made available outside the provisions of the Child Care Act 1972, both through the States and directly to organisations for the establishment and/or operation of multifunctional and integrated projects providing a range of care and developmental services for children, including full and part-time day care and outside school hours care. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Recurrent support forpre-school education services under the Commonwealth Government's Children's Services Program is directed towards the salary costs of both pre-school teachers and assistants. Grants for pre-school education also contribute to the support of play centres and toddlers' groups, where staff are employed, and pre-school advisers. 
State authorities are responsible for the detailed disbursement of the bulk of the moneys provided for these purposes, and the Commonwealth does not have details of the proportion of these grant moneys paid towards pre-school teachers' salaries as distinct from other staff categories. 
Payments to the States from the 1975-76 appropriations for support for staff in pre-school services, including play centres, toddlers' groups and advisers, were as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government, through my Department, has accepted responsibility for monitoring for oriental fruit fly across the whole of northern Australia, and has made funds available for this purpose. Research is being undertaken, as part of an overall program, to determine whether this insect presents an economic threat to Australia. 
The program of monitoring, which has been in progress since 1975, has included the Western Australian and Queensland authorities, and has been approved by the Australian Agricultural Council, on which all States are represented. 
-It is true that the honourable member for Parramatta, the honourable member for Hughes and a number of other honourable members from both sides of the House made representations to me as a consequence of my accepting the recommendations of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee to reduce the age eligibility from 6 years to 18 months for the availability of cow's milk substitutes. That recommendation was made last year. Because of the representations that I have received from the honourable member and from other honourable members in the Parliament I referred the matter back to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee for its reconsideration. The Committee acknowledged that there was a need for cow's milk substitutes for some children who are allergic to cow's milk. The 
Committee recognised also that there was a considerable amount of abuse in the usage of these substitutes. As a consequence of this the usage rate was centred principally in several centres or regions within the city of Sydney. The Committee made further inquiries, discussed the matter with physicians, pediatricians and others and recommended that the age limit be increased from 18 months to 2 years. I have now approved that recommendation and it will become effective as from 1 April 1977. 
For the information of honourable members I present the final report of the Darwin Disaster Welfare Council dated March 1976, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to that report. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and in the Parliamentary Library. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The current fee applying in Annandale Nursing Home is $125.72 a week. This fee became effective from 15 November 1976. The only increase in the home's fee in the previous 4 months was on 1 5 October 1 976 when the fee rose by $3. 1 5 a week to $ 123.20 a week. 
Fees charged in a nursing home are increased after the proprietor has applied to my Department and demonstrated that the cost of operating the nursing home has risen. Any increase in fees is based on the increase in cost. This procedure was followed in the case of Annandale Nursing Home. 
Because of its concern about the widening gap between nursing home fees and benefits the Government proposes to increase the rates of nursing home benefits by $14 a week from 15 December 1976 as an interim measure while the 
Committee on Care of the Aged and the Infirm completes its deliberations. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The precise number of people suffering from Diabetes mellitus in each State and Territory during the years 1970. to 1976 inclusive, is not available; there is no regular collection of such data in Australia since Diabetes mellitus is not a notifiable disease. The Australian Bureau of Statistics conducted a household sample survey in 1974 from which estimates of persons suffering from chronic illnesses, injuries and impairments have been derived. The number of persons reported suffering from Diabetes mellitus per 1000 of estimated population was 6.2 representing 0.6 per cent of the Australian population. These estimates are subject to variability due to a sample rather than the whole population having been enumerated and the fact that the information provided by informants may not have been based on diagnosis by medical practitioners and excludes cases where the respondent was not aware of the condition or chose not to disclose it. 
Although there are special diabetic clinics in some hospitals and similar institutions, generally speaking persons suffering from this condition are treated by their own doctor. 
Cost for treatment and pathological tests can be claimed under Medibank arrangements. Insulin and other drugs used in treatment are available under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, free of charge to eligible pensioners and to others on payment of a $2 patient contribution. A range of diagnostic reagents necessary for patients in the management ofthe disease is also available under the same conditions as above. 
The Government has provided funds under the Community Health Program for a Regional Diabetic Service operating from the Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney. The aim of this Service is to identify management problems in diabetic patients referred from their doctors and to motivate and educate the patients and their families to adhere to their prescribed management regimen. 
Funds provided by the Government for this purpose are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The longer-established Health Maintenance Organisations in the United States of America, such as the Kaiser Foundation based on the West Coast, generally provide care to subscribers in their own hospitals. These hospitals are also usually available for the care of non-subscribers on a feeforservice basis, and accept emergency cases. Many HMO's, however, do use community hospitals. 
No. In order to qualify under the health insurance arrangements as an 'approved' organisation and thus to remove the requirement of subscribers to pay the Medibank levy, a health maintenance organisation will have to provide all services currently available to persons covered by Medibank. Where the health maintenance organisation does not possess its own facilities (such as hospitals) it must either contract out for their provision or make equivalent alternative arrangements. (3)I have not received, nor am I aware of any concrete submission for a health maintenance organisation project for Wollongong. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1 October 1976 all medical benefits funds have been required to provide basic medical benefits (i.e in general covering 85 per cent of Schedule fees) on the same basis as Standard Medibank. Before 1 October these benefits were provided to all persons by Medibank. For hospital benefits funds, since 1 October, increased benefits have been provided because of increases in hospital charges. 
Because of the increased benefits paid by funds, approval has been given to funds to increase contribution rates from1 October. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1(a). As at 30 June 1975 projects approved for Commonwealth Assistance under the Hospitals Development Program were as listed below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following table shows the total number of medical services for Australia for which Commonwealth benefits, Pensioner Medical Service benefits, or Medibank benefits were paid in the half years ended (a) 30 June 1974, (b) 3 1 December 1974, (c) 30 June 1975, (d) 31 December 1975, and (e) 30 June 1976. From 1 July 1975 the figures include optometrical consultations for which benefits were paid. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Director-General advises me that when the Department of Social Security receives an inquiry from a member of Parliament for information about a constituent the Department accepts that the member has the authority of the person to whom the information relates to obtain it. 
(a) Clients of the Department have the right to receive a copy of any document provided to the Department or any statement made before an officer of the Department. A member of Parliament acting on behalf of a constituent would have the same right. 
No. 
Yes. 
Yes and the Department would make every effort to respond. 
Medical Claims Paid by Commonwealth (Question No. 1571) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The information is not readily available in the form requested. That form would entail extensive detailed listing of capital and recurrent grants provided to State Departments, local government authorities and individual community groups and organisations. However, the following table sets out the position for each of the various categories of child care projects and shows expenditure in 1975-76 and broad estimates of expenditure for 1976-77 for each of the various child care categories. The expenditure and estimates given include both capital and recurrent assistance. Except for vacation care, which includes a component for the May 1977 holiday period, the estimates for 1976-77 relate only to services and projects which have been approved to date. 
Earlier in the year I answered a question relating to this problem. The honourable member for Maribyrnong probably will recall that at that time I indicated that the Government had referred the whole question of privacy to the Law Reform Commission under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Kirby. One of the most important things that we have asked  Mr Justice  Kirby to do, under that Commission's terms of reference, is to inquire into the question of privacy, particularly as it relates to private health insurance and health matters. The Government does share some concern with the honourable member about the need to ensure that the privacy of individuals is preserved. Section 1 30 of the National Health Act, for instance, does provide that officers of the Department of Health and public servants generally are bound to ensure that the privacy of the individual is protected, but that provision does not apply to people involved in the private health insurance funds. However, we are mindful of the fact that it is in the interests of private health insurance funds to ensure that they maintain secrecy provisions and preserve the privacy provisions that are necessary to protect the interests of their contributors. 
The honourable member expressed some real concern about the Hospital Benefits Association establishing a data processing bureau in Singapore. I have looked into this matter. I could as Minister, under a provision in the National Health Act, intervene in the matter but I have decided not to do so because even under the provisions that exist the HBA will be operating that office under its own jurisdiction just as it operates its office in Melbourne. We assume that the HBA would preserve and respect the privacy of its contributors in its Singapore office just as it would do in its Melbourne office. Quite clearly there is a great responsibility on the private health insurance funds , to try to operate as efficiently and as economically as possible. 
-I beg your pardon? 
in reply- I conclude the debate briefly by thanking honourable members for their contributions that they have made to the second reading debate. I would like to respond to several points made by each of the speakers. Firstly, in response to the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  I make no apology whatsoever for former Liberal-National Country Party Governments. Nor should the Opposition spokesman for Health make any apology for the failure of the former Labor Government to see that justice was done to the Pharmacy Guild. I always believe that justice must at least appear to be done in respect of the determination of services rendered on behalf of the public or on behalf of the Government. 
Section 99 of the Principal Act which stood on the statute books for many years, contained a provision that made it very difficult to justify decisions that were taken in respect of determination of professional fees for the dispensing of pharmaceutical benefits. I think therein lies the argument. When a decision was made it was made by a Minister- I suppose one could say in an arbitrary sense- after a joint committee had been unable to come to an agreement. In many cases and at many times it was a very difficult exercise for officers of the Department of Health and members of the Guild. I do not think that we can derive any joy from the fact that this situation existed for as long as it did. The High Court writ was, I believe, about to be filed on 1 1 November last year- that Remembrance Daybut because of the events of 1 1 November last year the High Court writ did not proceed. Because of the events that flowed after 11 November, the High Court writ was subsequentially issued. Discussions continued and because of the success of the negotiations that took place an undertaking has been given by the Pharmacy Guild that once the legislation has been passed by both Houses, it will withdraw that High Court writ. 
I take the opportunity to thank the officers of my Department for the work that they have done, work for which very often they were unfairly criticised. The officers of a department must pursue the policy of the government of the day and must live with the consequences of decisions that are taken. I think that a lot of unfair criticism was levelled over the years at the officers of the Department of Health who were acting in accordance with the law of the day and also in accordance with the policies of the governments of the day. I wish to thank them for the efforts that they made. I thank the members of the Health and Welfare Committee, particularly the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  who have been most interested in this area, for the assistance that they gave to me as the Minister and to the Department. I also thank the members of the Pharmacy Guild for keeping the negotiations going in order to resolve what has been a long standing difference which has caused unnecessary friction between successive governments and the Pharmacy Guild. Members of the Guild, of course, have been essential to the discharge of the National Health Act and also in the dispensing of drugs that are essential, in many cases, in the saving of life and in health treatment. 
I pay a tribute to the great work that the chemists are doing around Australia in co-operating with the Government and the public and in working with the medical profession. This is a very important part of health care. I take the point of the honourable member for Murray that there is an important professional role for the chemists to play. It is interesting that some chemists are taking that role very seriously. One chemist in Boorowa is doing some splendid work in counselling patients about the usage of drugs. Hopefully we will see the day when more and more chemists will be able to afford in both a material sense and a time sense to play a greater part in counselling patients in the ways in which the drugs that are dispensed or prescribed for them should in fact be taken. I hope that the day is not too far away. 
The honourable member for Petrie also drew attention to one of the real problems that is developing with the number of pharmacies that are going out of business in Australia at present. A great number have found it very difficult to keep going. We are aware of the fact that in some areas there are too many pharmacies. I have had several discussions with the Pharmacy Guild about this matter and we are looking at ways and means of trying to assist in rationalising the number of pharmacies in Australia. I am aware of a general feeling amongst Guild chemists that some pharmacies that have gone out of business should have been kept in business regardless of the overall cost and other pertinent factors. The Pharmacy Guild, I am sure, recognises the need to look at the rationalisation of retail pharmacies. I hope that the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements will look at this matter with a view to providing some advice to me, through the  Chairman,  on whether the 
Commonwealth can assist in any approach which may be suggested in this regard. 
I agree with the honourable member for Murray that some very real problems exist for pharmacies which provide an essential pharmaceutical service in remote areas of Australia. I go a little further and say that in some cases these pharmacies are almost the only primary source of health care delivery in isolated regions. A number of these pharmacies in my own area exist where no other form of health service exists. They are operating at a loss. Because of the state of their financial undertakings the pharmacies cannot be sold, nor would we like to see them sold. If the operations were to cease a very important and essential service would be removed from the community. I will be looking to the Joint Committee to advise me and the Government on what special approaches should be considered in these cases. I regard this matter as one of great urgency. I hope that I will receive a report on it so that the matter can be considered in the budgetary context for 1 977. 
The problem besetting pharmacies in isolated regions throughout Australia causes very serious alarm and should be dealt with urgently. I hope that the Joint Committee will be able to turn its attention to this problem at the earliest opportunity. Without delaying the proceedings of the House, I thank the honourable members for their contributions to the debate. I hope that we can look forward to a more constructive conduct of affairs by the Joint Committee. I believe that a lot of the heat will be taken out of the issue as a result of the decisions which the Government has taken and which are embodied in this amendment to the National Health Act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistics as to the number of persons aged 70 years and over who are permanent patients in nursing homes are not available to my Department. It is estimated that as at 30 June 1976 there were approximately S3 000 persons accommodated in nursing homes throughout Australia. 
2 ) The total cost to the Government for the year ended 30 June 1976, in the form of nursing home benefits under the National Health Act and amounts paid under the Nursing Homes Assistance Act was $ 195.7m. A further $2 1.6m was paid by the Department of Veterans' Affairs in respect of nursing home patients receiving financial assistance under the provisions of the Repatriation Act. 
The following amounts are payable in respect of persons accommodated in nursing homes. 
Nursing Home Benefits Under the National Health Act 
ordinary nursing home care benefit- payable at the rate of $3.50 a day in respect of all patients accommodated in approved nursing homes; 
supplementary intensive nursing home care benefitpayable (in addition to the ordinary nursing home care benefit) at the rate of $3.00 a day in respect of patients who need and receive intensive nursing home care; 
additional nursing home benefit- payable by my Department in respect of nursing home patients who are Australian residents and who either pay the Medibank health insurance levy or who are exempt from payment of the levy on grounds other than that of being appropriately privately insured. This benefit is payable in addition to either one or both of the foregoing benefits as may be appropriate. The rate at which this benefit is payable varies between States. Currently the rates of additional benefit payable are: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government decided in February 1976 that I should, in consultation with the Treasurer, investigate the possibilities of selling the Fawnmac group, preferably to an Australian company, and report back to the Government. No decision has yet been taken on the enquiries that have been received. As the matter is still under examination it would not be appropriate for me to disclose details of offers at this stage. 
Federal and State Co-operation on Industrial Matters (Question No. 1604) 
I should like to make it known to the honourable member for Cook that I am most disturbed at this further outbreak of illness. It arises from food poisoning on Flight 888 from the United Kingdom. I did not hear the report this morning on the  AM  program but I understand that 32 passengers have now been diagnosed as suffering from food poisoning. I called for a report this morning from my Department about the food standards being observed by airlines operating to and from Australia. I just do not think it is good enough to describe the suffering and the problems experienced by people as being unfortunate. I understand that British Airways is now gathering information in India about the suspected source of typhoid infection in that country. This is the third case that I know of in the last 5 weeks where food poisoning has occurred as a result of nights to and from Australia. This morning I discussed the matter with my colleague the Minister for Transport who, I am sure, is as concerned as I am. I ask for leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  an interim report which I have received from my Department this morning on the latest incident. 
For the information of honourable members I present a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to the children's services program which will provide care for school age children during the coming Christmas school vacation. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled  Indicators of Community Well-being  together with a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to that report. Due to the limited number available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
in reply- I thank the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  and the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  for their contribution to this debate. They raised points on the indexation or automatic adjustments of payments of compensation benefits. The Department of Social Security has been authorised to investigate the question of automatic adjustments of compensation benefits. A number of options are available to the Government to achieve this, and they are currently under consideration. The honourable member for Grey has been very interested in this matter, as I well know. I have taken a note of the points he raised. I will convey them to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  He also made a point that I think is worthy of some consideration, and that is the question of the time that people have to wait for lump sum compensation, particularly wives of deceased Commonwealth employees. This matter of concern is one that I will also convey to the Minister. 
In respect of the question of retrospectivity, it has been consistent Government policy in recent years that compensation increases should not be made retrospective. The previous Government also adopted this policy. It should be mentioned that in 1954 the new rates of compensation under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act were introduced into Parliament on 9 April 1954, and provision was made for them to apply retrospectively to 1 January 1954. On that occasion the Government had given an undertaking to introduce the amendments in 1953, but introduction of the legislation had been delayed because of the sudden ending of the parliamentary session in 1953. However, on that occasion the Government was returned to office following the election. It is relevant that the precedent was set 22 years ago, and successive governments since that time have not regarded themselves as being bound by it. The increase now being made is retrospective to 1 September 1976. 
The honourable member for Canberra raised a point to which I think I should reply, and that is 
This Bill brings the Seamen's Compensation Act into line with the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act in 3 important areas. Firstly, clause 3 removes the $1,000 limit on medical benefits. Secondly, clause 6 removes from the Act the time limit on proceeding for damages. Thirdly, clause 8 sub-clause (1) introduces benefits for student children aged 16 to 21 years. The Department of Social Security will shortly be opening discussions with interested parties in the shipping industry on the question of reviewing the Seamen's Compensation Act with a view to extending the compensation code for Commonwealth employees to seamen. 
I think those are the main points that need to be answered. I thank once again the honourable member for Canberra, the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  and the honourable member for Grey for the interest that they have shown in this matter. I will convey to the Minister for Social Security the points that the honourable member for Grey raised most recently in this debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Commonwealth assistance for non-profit pre-schools generally in the States commenced in April 1974 but with effect from January of that year. The amounts provided as recurrent assistance under the Interim Pre-School Program and under the Children's Services Program in the years 1973/74 to 1975/76 are set out in the table below. Funds provided through the Commonwealth Department of Education for pre-school services in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for special pre-school services for aboriginals are not included. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3)- 
As far as I know, Professor Fred Hollows and his team of ophthalmologists are continuing their task force operation. They certainly have our authority to continue. I do not know whether they are presently working but, as the honourable member knows, I had a meeting recently with Professor Fred Hollows and discussed with him some of the longer term problems that the task force will face next year in carrying out its work. We are making sure that the various State governments and the health departments in those States co-operate. I have asked my Department to be responsible for coordinating the work with the various State governments so that there is no misunderstanding between the State authorities and the task force. I would like to take the opportunity to say that we have received excellent co-operation from the Minister for Defence and from the Army, which has brought into the northern part of South Australia mobile theatre and a mobile unit to assist the task force in carrying out surgical work in the field. I think that great credit must go to Professor Hollows and those associated with the task force for the work that they are doing. It could well set a pattern of health care delivery to Aborigines living in remote areas of Australia and also to white people living in difficult circumstances and suffering from ill health in remote areas of Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) $ 160,094-paid on 8 September 1976. The vendor was Fawnmac Industries Pty Ltd (name subsequently changed to Unitus Consolidated Pty Ltd). 
The payment of $160,094 was the final payment for the purchase. No additional amount, other than normal salaries and directors fees, is payable to any director. 
, (4) and (5)  Mr Hemming  retired from employment with the companies, and from the Board of Directors, in October 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The group continued its long standing practice of calculating depreciation at rates allowed by the Taxation Office which does not allow depreciation on buildings. 
This matter will be considered when the accounts for 1 976-77 are being prepared. 
and (4) Barker House Pty Ltd owns the premises, known as Barker House, from which the Fawnmac group operates in Sydney. Croydon Investments Pty Ltd is the beneficial owner of the shares in Barker House Pty Ltd. This is a long standing arrangement which was entered into before the Commonwealth acquired the shares in the Fawnmac group. 
All of the Directors of Barker House Pty Ltd are directors of the other Fawnmac companies. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A review of Australian quarantine arrangements has been completed and is currently under consideration. 
Quarantine personnel requirements and resources throughout Australia are being reviewed as a priority task in my Department. 
All penalties in relation to bleaches of human, animal and plant quarantine requirements are currently being examined. Specific proposals to increase these penalties to more realistic levels will be brought forward for my consideration as soon as possible. In the meantime all quarantine personnel have been instructed to rigorously enforce quarantine requirements and to proceed with prosecution action in the event of a breach after an initial warning. 
I have not studied the report to which the Leader of the Opposition referred. The matter of the lead content of petrol has been under consideration by the National Health and Medical Research Council. I have not the facts at my fingertips at the moment in regard to the question but I shall supply them in due course. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Melba Health Centre has four doctors at present. Two doctors have resigned since January 1976 and are private practitioners in the area. 
(a) The population of the area (approximately 17 500) is served by the Melba Health Centre and private practitioners. 
Patients are referred to the Canberra Hospital only when, in cases of emergency, the centre is unable to provide an immediate appointment. 
A major study is under way in the Capital Territory Health Commission concerning the timing and siting of health centres in Canberra. A report is expected to be considered by the Commission shortly and the Commission plans made public soon after. 
Pharmacists at the Centre agreed that because all patient information was entered on the Health Centre record separate records were not needed in the pharmacy. 
Initially the closure of the pharmacy in the Village Health Centre was caused by the Commission's inability to staff the pharmacy during a period of absence, due to illness, of the salaried pharmacist However, pharmaceutical services were available for Health Centre patients from a newly opened private pharmacy adjacent to the health centre. Because community needs were being adequately catered for by the private pharmacist it was decided to return the salaried pharmacist to Woden Valley Hospital when he resumed duty. The Commission has no plans to close the pharmacy at Melba Health Centre. 
Salaries paid to community medical practitioners are currently under review. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The importation and end-use of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), terphenyls and polyphenyls, and products containing those substances, are controlled under the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations. 
Since 1972 the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH&amp;MRC) an advisory body to States and Territories, has made a series of recommendations on PCBs relating to their usage, waste disposal, their existence in certain microscope immersion oils used in laboratories, precautions necessary when used in totally enclosed systems, and poisons scheduling limitations. 
The Australian Environment Council has also expressed concern over these substances and has made several recommendations regarding importation and disposal of PCBs. 
PCBs are therefore presently controlled at the point of entry, and through adoption of NH&amp;MRC recommendations by State legislation. In the longer term they will largely cease to be available as the major manufacturer and distributor, the U.S.A., phases out their manufacture. 
PCBs are not manufactured or formulated in Australia. 
Yes. The U.S. Toxic Substances Control Act, effective from 1 January 1977, outlines action to be taken in respect of PCBs. From January, 1978 no person may manufacture, process or distribute in commerce or use any PCB in any manner other than in a totally enclosed manner. From 1 January 1979 no person may manufacture any PCBs and from 1 July 1979 no person may process or distribute any PCBs in commerce. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Loss of animal life is not continuing; animals with high residue levels are at present in quarantine. The cause of the problem which first arose in 1974 has been confirmed as being due to polybrominated biphenyl (PBB). Investigations have been carried out on persons who may have been exposed to this chemical through residues in food but no correlation has been established between exposure and illness. However, research is continuing under the auspices of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare in the United States of America. 
The chemical is not used in animal husbandry. Evidence of the use of the compound for other purposes in Australia is lacking; however, it is understood that the Departments of Agriculture and the chemical industry are well aware of the incident hence the likelihood of a similar occurrence, should this chemical be used in this country, is remote. 
For the information of honourable members I present the fifth main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty entitled  Poverty and Education in Australia. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The list prices of goats' milk preparations available as pharmaceutical benefits are as follows: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My Department does not maintain statistics on the withdrawal of pensioner health benefit cards. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The specific number of taxpayers who pay the 2.5% levy will be information which can only be provided by the Taxation Office and I understand it will be some time before this information is available. With regard to the number of persons who pay the levy or are exempt from the levy and are covered by Standard Medibank, such persons are not required to register with the Health Insurance Commission and accordingly the number of these persons could only be calculated when the number of privately insured persons is known. This information will not be available from the funds until early 1977. 
In keeping with the competitive nature of the private health insurance industry, the Health Insurance Commission does not intend to release details of its private operations in advance of its competitors as such action may be inimical to its interests. I support this view completely. All registered organisations are required to submit details of their operations to my Department each year. This information is subsequently published in an annual report entitled 'Operations of the Registered Medical and Hospital Benefits Organisations'. This report will include membership information. 
Details of the number of taxpayers who joined private medical and hospital benefits are not known. 
As indicated in ( 1 ), the present membership of private hospital and medical benefit funds will not be known until early 1977. 
Lycine  in Food Aid Program (Question No. 1610) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) On 5 November 1 976I held discussions in Melbourne with members of the Social Security Appeals Tribunals and Departmental officers. One of the purposes of the meeting was to see what steps could be taken to reduce the time between the lodgment of an appeal and a decision being made by the Tribunal. It is hoped that steps being taken following these discissions will achieve this result. 
Yes. 
Additional members are being appointed to the Tribunals where this is necessary. In addition, Departmental procedures are being reviewed to endeavour to provide the necessary information to the Tribunals more quickly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report on vinyl chloride monomer levels in vegetable oils to which the honourable member refers was part of a continuous monitoring program by the Food Standards Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
I have provided to the Parliamentary Library copies of a summary of the report excluding brand names and individual analyses. 
Following the release of the results to the Plastics Institute of Australia the plastics industry has provided the following additional information regarding the date of manufacture of the 52 bottles that exceeded the NH and MRC recommended maximum level of 0.03 mg of vinyl chloride monomer per kilogram of contained food. 
37 were known to be made in Australia prior to the announcement of the latest NH and MRC guidelines. 
b) 11 were known to be made in Australia but details of date of manufacture were not traceable. 
4 were of overseas origin. 
From this information it is clear that a maximum of 1 1 bottles out of575 samples could have been manufactured in Australia after the latest NH and MRC recommended levels. 
In addition, a number of State Departments of Health and the Plastics Institute of Australia have carried out monitoring programs parallel to the study referred to above and these surveys have shown the number of samples exceeding the NH and MRC recommended levels is now extremely low. 
I would stress that there is no evidence of toxicity from ingestion of the trace amounts of vinyl chloride monomer (vcm) found in food. The only evidence of toxicity has occurred in the inhalation of vcm in extremely large quantities over extended periods of time. The maximum levels recommended by the NH and MRC were based on the minimum levels attainable by the plastics industry by stria adherence to good manufacturing practice. 
This matter will be maintained under continual review by the Food Standards Committee of the NH and MRC in the light of further data on vcm and refinements in the plastics industry. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Section 1 07 of the Social Services Act provides in effect that in order to qualify for unemployment benefit a person must satisfy the Director-General of Social Services that he is: 
unemployed; 
capable and willing to undertake suitable work; and 
has taken reasonable steps to obtain such work. 
(4) The Government's policy on this matter was announced by my colleague, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, in the House on 23 March 1976-  Hansard pages  869-872. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated annual Commonwealth subsidy for each of the different categories of nursing home patients in each of the States during the 1 976-77 financial year, is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) The present weekly additional benefit to nursing home patients in (a) Victoria and (b) New South Wales is $64.05 and $39.90 respectively, and both of these will be increased by $14 per week as from 15 December 1976. These benefits are additional to the $24.50 per week Commonwealth ordinary care benefit payable in respect of qualified nursing home patients and the $21 per week supplementary Commonwealth benefit payable in respect of patients in need of and receiving intensive nursing home care. The present total weekly ordinary care nursing home benefits in (a) Victoria and (b) New South Wales are $88.55 and $64.40 respectively and $21 weekly higher for intensive nursing home care patients. The additional benefit is payable by the Commonwealth in respect of patients who have Standard Medibank coverage. Those patients who are privately insured, i.e., have basic medical and hospital insurance cover with a private fund, receive the same rate of additional benefit through their health insurance organisation. 
The prime reason for the difference in the rates of nursing home benefits between New South Wales and Victoria is that fees charged in nursing homes in Victoria are in the main much higher than those charged in New South Wales. The higher benefits for Victoria are necessary to provide protection for patients in that State who have to meet the higher fees. There are a number of reasons why fees are higher in Victorian nursing homes but principally it is due to the Victorian Government requiring a higher nursing staff to patient rado than does the New South Wales Government. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) Estimated Number of Pensioners Beneficiaries in the Electoral Division of Evans as at 4 October 1 976: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No information is available on the numbers of mothers in receipt of family allowances cross-classified with the ages of children. However, the total number of families receiving family allowances in the electoral division of Sydney was estimated to be 1 2 270 at 4 October 1 976. 
It is estimated that there were 22 130 children in these families, for whom family allowance were paid. The estimated numbers in the various age groups are: (a) 1 to 5 years: 8470, (b) 6 to 10 years: 6600, (c) 1 1 to 15 years: 5930 and ( d ) 1 6 years and oven 1130. 
The number of families in electoral divisions in receipt of family allowance is obtained by accumulating figures for individual postcode districts within the electoral divisions. Since some postcodes can be in two or more electoral divisions some estimation is necessary. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) and (2 ) My Department has received a proposal from the Australian Association for the Mentally Retarded for the establishment of a National Institute of Mental Retardation. The details of that proposal are currently under review by the Department and I intend to refer the proposal to the Ministers for Education and Health for comment 
-The answer to the honorouble member's question is as follows: 
No regular and definitive detailed statement on national health expenditure is available. However, the following details have been prepared in association with the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
Table 1 sets out total health expenditure for the years requested showing in (a) sector and economic type of expenditure and showing in (b) source of finance. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Workers ' compensation and third party insurance premiums are determined on a differential basis. Increases in workers' compensation premiums may vary according to the nature ofthe industry and, for third party insurance, according to such factors as class of vehicle and area classification. Details of increases since 26 September 197S are not available in my Department. 
I would mention that figures contained in the reports of working parties tabled in the Parliament on 28 October 1975 by the then Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator the Hon.  John M. wheeldon, are national aggregates and not a break-up for each State and Territory. Further, the figures are estimates only and not actual amounts. 
I am advised that consolidated figures for a particular financial year do not become available until well into the following financial year. Figures for the year 1975-76 are not yet available. 
3 ) This is a matter mainly for the State authorities. 
See (2) above. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Amounts of expenditure appropriated by Parliament are not allocated by electoral division. 
Details of expenditure by electoral divisions have not been and are not maintained by my Department. 
However, some information about expenditures for more recent years under certain major programs is available for the division of Macarthur as below: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2 ) In the tabling statement for Professor Vinson 's report on  Indicators of Community Well-being  I said, and I quote. 
For this tabling my Department has supplied a limited number of photocopies of the research. However, in January next year the Australian Government Publishing Service will also make printed copies available to all honourable senators and members.' 
The usual number of copies required for tabling are 330 and these will be forwarded to Parliament House as soon as the printing is completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Private doctors in some New South Wales country towns are continuing to refuse to treat standard Medibank hospital patients. 
Yes. 
In reply to a question asked without notice on 17 November 1 976 by the Member for Lang along similar lines I said that I deplore the fact that some doctors in New South Wales are behaving in this way. I also said that, where it is occurring, I appeal to doctors and to all concerned to try to resolve a situation that is not in the best interests of the public or the medical profession. 
In accordance with Section 23 of the Health Insurance Act, I have requested all medical practitioners engaged in rendering professional services to persons in Australia to accept assignment of benefits as full payment for services to eligible pensioners and their dependants. 
I have offered the Minister for Health in New South Wales any help that I can give to try to resolve the situation. 
I have also sought thesupport of the Australian Medical Association, as representative of the organised medical profession, in making it plain to its members that the AMA does not condone the discriminatory practice being adopted by a small minority of doctors in a few isolated areas. 
The response from the Australian Medical Association and the New South Wales Health Commission is heartening and I trust that reason will prevail so that this unfortunate situation may be overcome as quickly as possible. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As far as the Commonwealth is concerned nursing home patients, or their relatives, have the same right of selection of the doctor of their choice as any other member of the community and are subject to the same limitations of availability and willingness of medical practitioners to attend the particular patient. 
Commonwealth legislation relating to nursing homes does not contain any specific provisions concerning the attendance on nursing home patients by private medical practitioners. 
My Department does not usually interfere in the day to day administration of nursing homes. Nevertheless if a specific complaint were made that a proprietor was unjustifiably denying patients the right to treatment by the doctor of their choice my Department would be pleased to examine the complaint. Any examination of this nature would be done in conjunction with the State authority responsible for the licensing or registering of nursing homes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The names and addresses and the names of the proprietors of the five (5) premises approved as nursing homes under Commonwealth legislation in the electoral division of Shortland are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are five (5) premises approved as nursing homes under Commonwealth legislation in the Electoral Division of Sydney- viz: 
Bridge Hospital (William Booth House) cnr Albion and Commonwealth Streets, Darlinghurst. 
-The answer to the honourable ; member 's question is as follows: 1 
1 ) Yes. There are a number of recent research reports similar to this particular study. Although there may be no constant association between blood fat levels and the stated ! consumption of fats, both weight control and other dietary 1 measures are of importance in reducing blood cholesterol levels.  i 
The National Heart Foundation gives prominence to weight reduction in the advice it offers, as well as drawing attention to the importance of other dietary measures such as . low cholesterol diets. The study to which the honourable member refers has been discussed by my Department with the Foundation. 
3 ) This study has been assessed by my Department along  I  with other relevant studies published elsewhere. As I have  i  pointed out, this is but one of a number of studies in an area where there still remains some controversy over the relationship between high blood fat levels and the amount and type of fat in the diet. There is also evidence to show that other dietary factors such as sugar, alcohol and fibre may also influence blood triglyceride and cholesterol levels. I would point out that other aspects of life-style such as stress, cigarette smoking and lack of exercise are also of importance in the causation of coronary heart disease. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of annual prescriptions and cost of milk substitutes (goats milk, nutramigen and soya formula) supplied under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme since 1967-68 are as set out below. It should be noted that there are no statistics available for years prior 1967-68 when the computerised system for payment of chemists' claims was fully implemented. 
-The answer to the honourable members ' question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Medical services are rendered to nursing home patients on much the same basis as any other members of the community and do not come within the Commonwealth nursing home benefit arrangements. Consequently the types of details requested are not known to my Department. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. In a news release of 4 February 1 976 1 announced that the Government would not be meeting the increased costs of State programs approved for funding under the Hospitals Development Program in 1975-76. It was estimated at that time that cost escalation on the Program for that financial year would total $10m and that this decision would therefore save the Federal Government this amount. 
No. The Government has decided not to meet increased costs of approved projects under the Program in 1976-77. 
Approximately Slim based on information available at the present time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
New South Wales (7) 
Bankstown; Glebe; Liverpool; Manly/ Warringah; Marrickville; Blacktown and Wagga Wagga. 
Victoria (2) 
Melbourne City and North Croydon. 
South Australia (4) 
Adelaide; North Adelaide; Ovingham and Whyalla. 
Western Australia (2 ) 
North Perth and Fremantle. 
Queensland (2) 
Brisbane and Townsville. 
Tasmania (2) 
$64.9m is available to the States in 1976-77 for the Community Health Program as a whole, including community health centres and women's refuges approved under that Program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
Not applicable. 
No. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the Health Insurance Commission Act 1973, I present the annual report of the Health Insurance Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Act 1973, 1 present the annual report of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission for 1975-76. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Comprehensive Reciprocal Agreements on social security exist between Australia and New Zealand and between Australia and the United Kingdom. Malta, Italy, Turkey and Greece are joined with Australia by reciprocal agreements for portability of pension payments but these became redundant when legislation, enabling Australian pensions to be paid generally overseas, came into force in May 1973. 
Australia is investigating the possibility of entering into comprehensive agreements with Austria, France, West Germany, Israel, Italy, Malta, The Netherlands, Sweden, Turkey and Yugoslavia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department has confirmed with New Zealand veterinary authorities that the scrapie outbreak in that country occurred only in imported sheep in the New Zealand high security animal quarantine station at Somes Island. I am informed that all blood relatives of the affected sheep have been destroyed in quarantine and that the remaining sheep in quarantine will be held for a further prolonged period. 
Yes. However, as the New Zealand Government imports sheep the disease could occur again in animals in quarantine in that country. 
No, in view of 1 and 2 above. 
Meetings of the Railway Group  (Question No. 1811) 
The honourable member will recall that in April of last year the Government set up a working party under  Dr Sax  to inquire into some of the quite unsatisfactory practices in the pathology area. These practices have been going on for some years but certainly accelerated under the Medibank system.  Dr Sax  headed the committee consisting of representatives from the Royal College of Pathologists in Australia and the Society of Pathologists in Private Practice, plus a representative from the New South Wales Health Commission and representatives from the Department of Health. That committee made 2 short-term recommendations to the Government, the first being to amend the schedule of fees for benefits to become effective as from 1 October. The Government acted to implement that recommendation, and the new schedule of fees now applies. The committee also recommended that the Government should implement an approved provider scheme. Legislation will be introduced in this session so that this system will apply as from 1 July this year. So, I can give the honourable member the assurance that legislation will be introduced to overcome another problem that has become evident. 
Also we are waiting on a further report from the pathology working party on the longer-term measures that the Government should consider to overcome the problem, and I will give consideration to the honourable gentleman s request in respect of the tabling of that report. After question time I will be tabling the report of the Health Insurance Commission for the last financial year. If there is any other information that the honourable gentleman may require about doctors' incomes on average and so oh, I hope to be in a position to provide that in the not too distant future. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the text of a letter by the Minister for Education relating to the role and composition of the Schools Commission, together with a statement by the Minister relating to that letter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Meetings were held on the proposed dates which were asterisked in the reply of 1 June 1 976 to Question No. 487. 
Meetings have since been held on 23 November 1 976-South Australia 24 November 1976- Western Australia 30 November 1976-Queensland 1 December 1976- New South Wales 7 December 1976- Tasmania 8 December 1976-Victoria. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act 1971 I present the annual report of the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No, this information is not available in my Department. The export of cattle from France would be a matter for decision between the French Department of Agriculture and other French Ministries and the particular country or dependency contemplating importation. 
National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation: Membership and Reports  (Question No. 1741) 
I thank the honourable member for Fraser for the question. I have just returned from a luncheon with the  Chairman  of the Staff Specialist Council. We discussed some of the matters that are concerning the salaried specialists in the Australian Capital Territory. The reports in the Press to which the honourable member has referred are quite incorrect. I do not believe for a moment either that the Capital Territory Health Commission is attempting to discriminate against the salaried specialists or that it is in breach of the Trade Practices Act. I have seen a number of articles on this matter and I am concerned that the people who are writing these articles are doing sufficient to create further damage to relationships that have existed between the private specialists and the salaried specialists in Canberra. I take no responsibility at all for that state of affairs. In fact, the responsibility can be laid fairly and squarely at the feet of the Opposition because when it was in government it created in this city a situation in which the salaried specialists and the private specialists found it very difficult to work together. This occurred at the expense of the public in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Among the other things that I had to do last 
Sear in frying to sort out one big mess in the ealth area was to attend to the problem that existed in the Australian Capital Territory. I have used the patience I have at my disposal and I shall continue to use whatever patience I can command in trying to overcome what I believe to be a most unfortunate state of affairs within the medical profession in Canberra. In trying to do so I set up a joint working party, comprising private practitioners and salaried practitioners in Canberra and under the chairmanship of none other than Professor Hughes, who happens to be the  chairman  of the advisory committee of the joint colleges in Australia. The Government has adopted the recommendations contained in his report. The Capital Territory Health Commission is in the process of trying to implement those recommendations. But, in the final analysis, success will depend upon the degree to which both the private people and the salaried people can work together. I call upon the medical profession in Canberra to settle down and get on with its job of looking after the people in accordance with the ethics of the medical profession. 
-Of course, with a complexion such as I have, I am well aware of the problems of skin cancer, sunburn and so on. So I extend the deepest sympathy to those who suffer from these problems. I am aware also of the serious problem that skin cancer is from a medical point of view, articularly in Queensland and in northern New South Wales. The medical complement of my Department, the Australian Government Analyst from the Department of Science and the Australian Cancer Council have been in conference and as a consequence of their efforts a booklet has been published and 200 000 copies have been distributed this summer to people in various parts of Australia. 
For the honourable member's benefit, I mention that all treatment of skin cancer performed by a doctor in his surgery or in a hospital attracts medical and hospital benefits. We have ensured that surgical aids, such as artificial noses that may be required as a consequence of cancer of the nose, are available free of any charge to patients at recognised hospitals in the States where such artificial aids are necessary as part of the ongoing treatment of the patient. That arrangement has been made with the various States. So I can Assure the honourable member for Petrie and Other honourable members that action has been taken to try to warn the public and to ensure that those who are afflicted have medical benefits and other assistance. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Overseas postal articles destined for the north-west of Western Australia, including Port Hedland, are inspected for plant quarantine items by Customs officers at the appropriate pons where distribution occurs. Since July 1975 an exception has applied in relation to overseas parcels addressed to Port Hedland. In these cases plant quarantine inspections are carried out at the Penh Mail Exchange in the first instance. This special arrangement was made so that artifacts regularly imported from South East Asia by a Port Hedland dealer could be fumigated at Perth without the. costs of consignment to Penh and return which would otherwise arise. On arrival at Port Hedland, all overseas parcels irrespective of surveillance at Perth, are subject to inspection by Customs officers at that centre. Items of quarantine concern are referred to the quarantine inspector at Port Hedland. 
According to a newspaper report,  Mr W.  F. Toomer, Quarantine Inspector, Pott Hedland located insects in postal articles arriving in Port Hedland from Singapore during the week ending 3 December 1976. Records at Perth indicate that some overseas parcels were cleared through quarantine during this period but it has not been possible to identify these with the newspaper report. The incident reported in the newspaper article had not previously been brought to the notice of the Chief Quarantine Officer (Plants) for Western Australia. 
Following the newspaper report  Mr Toomer  was asked to report on the incident and to forward specimens to Perth for identification. The following identification was subsequently made on damaged specimens received 1 larva (Lepidoptera: Ephestia sp.-a cosmopolitan  storage pest) 1 pupa (Lepidoptera) 1 fragment of fly (Diptera) 1 fragment of moth (Lepidoptera). 
It could not be established whether the insects were exotic to Australia. Their origin could not be determined. 
The Quarantine Inspector, Port Hedland advised that he had treated and incinerated one carton and a quantity of dried chilli. 
The reported incident does not warrant a change in current quarantine procedures. Any interceptions at Port Hedland are regarded as the normal responsibility of the quarantine inspector located there. The Quarantine Inspector at Port Hedland has been reminded that, in accordance with established procedures, he should refer any unusual plant quarantine incident which could require special interpretation or decision to the Chief Quarantine Officer ( Plants). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Although there have been reports of observations linking malignant melanomas with polyunsaturated diets there is no convincing evidence that polyunsaturated fatty acids can be so linked or with the onset of any type of cancer. The number of such observations is not statistically significant. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question 1682  (Hansard,  9 December 1976) in which I stressed that there is no evidence at all, Unking oral ingestion of vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) with cancer in humans. However, medical reports of an increased frequency of liver cancer in a small number of workers engaged in the production of polyvinyl chloride (PVC), who had inhaled high concentrations of VCM over a number of years, have caused some public concern over the presence of trace amounts of VCM in PVC food containers and in foods, expecially edible oils. Accordingly as a precautionary measure, steps were taken some years ago by the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH&amp;MRC), Commonwealth and State Health Departments and the Plastics Industry to reduce the levels of VCM in PVC containers to the absolute minimum possible. At its 81st Session in October 1975 the NH&amp;MRC recommended that VCM concentration should not exceed the following: 
in rigid PVC containers and utensils intended for use in contact with food, or which normally come into contact with food- 5 mg/kg 
in flexible PVC film intended for use in contact with food- 1 mg/kg 
in foods and beverages- no vinyl chloride as determined by the Recommended Method of Analysis where the minimum limit of determination using this method is 0.05 mg of VCM per kilogram of food. 
This recommendation has been incorporated into the Food and Drug Regulations of N.S.W. and is in the process of adoption by other States and Territories, the administration of food legislation being the responsibility of the Australian States and Territories. 
The Food Standards Committee of the NH&amp;MRC has maintained a continual review of this matter. The latest investigations have shown that the levels of VCM in the foods tested comply with the NH&amp;MRC recommendations. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
-I thank the House. Since that meeting and since those actions were taken, work has been proceeding on the development of options for Government consideration, and at the appropriate time the Government's final policy will be announced. Until that has been done and the options properly considered by the Government in association with the States and other related organisations, it would not be wise for us to be rushed into hasty and ill-prepared conclusions which could in any event be difficult to put into practice. I should like to make it clear once again that the Government does not oppose the fundamental aspects of the Bill and would like to consider them. Therefore, it would not wish to take a vote on the Bill but would prefer to defer that vote at this stage. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The required information is not available for the dates specified. The following table provides data for the nearest available dates. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has indicated his Party's approach to the reform of the compensation systems in Australia. I now intend to outline how the Government proposes to approach this matter. There is a fundamental agreement on many aspects of a national compensation program. In 1973 the previous Government established a committee of inquiry into rehabilitation and compensation in Australia under  Mr Justice  Woodhouse of New Zealand.  Mr Justice  Woodhouse of course had previously headed a royal commission of inquiry in New Zealand which ultimately resulted in the introduction of an accident compensation scheme in 1974. The committee's report was tabled in the Australian Parliament in July 1974 and it included a draft national compensation Bill. That Bill was modified, introduced into Federal Parliament and passed by the House of Representatives in October 1974. In the same month the clauses of the BUI were referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The Committee reported to Parliament in July 1975, raising many objections to the Bill. As the Leader of the Opposition knows, the then Government was in the process of reviewing the Bill when Parliament was dissolved in November 1975. Enormous efforts would have been required, however, before the scheme could have been regarded as generally acceptable and workable. For instance, the scheme was not supported by all sections of the community. Its financial and economic implications had not yet been fully resolved. The States did not support all the proposals and the constitutional validity of the proposed authorising legislation was also in question. In view of these difficulties the new Government decided not to proceed with the Bill. 
Before outlining the weaknesses which exist in the current compensation system it is necessary to describe the present position. The existing systems which provide monetary benefits to those who suffer incapacity as a result of personal injury or who are dependent on or related to a person killed as a result of personal injury include common law, including fatal accidents legislation, workers' compensation, no-fault motor accident compensation, criminal injuries compensation, air accidents liability, social security, superannuation, sick leave and private loss insurance. Many of these systems fall within the jurisdiction of the States, although the lack of rationalisation results in unnecessary expenditure and produces difficulties for victims. Some of these have been referred to by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The weaknesses which led to the Woodhouse inquiry still exist. I shall outline some of them as we see them. Most self-employed persons are not covered by workers' compensation. This group is estimated to comprise over 10 per cent of the work force. There is a lack of uniformity as to benefit structures, entitlements and administrative practices. For example, unlike the rest of the Australian working population, 20 to 30 per cent of workers in Victoria and New South Wales do not receive weekly compensation of 100 per cent of award wagesin the first 26 weeks of injury. Over 30 per cent of motor accident victims, due to the absence of negligence on someone else's part, are unable to sue for damages at common l aw. However, there would be an entitlement for hospital and medical expenses under health insurance arrangements, as well as income maintenance for short term injuries under sick leave provisions. 
Settlements of common law damages are slow. Damages are reduced by contributory negligence irrespective of the needs of the injured person and are adversely affected by inflation because they are paid in a lump sum. There have been high losses by State government insurance offices and private insurers in both workers compensation and third party fields. Premiums charged to employers for workers compensation insurance and to motorists for compulsory third party insurance, which amount to over $ 1,000m a year, have become a real burden and further increases will be necessary. Some relief is provided to employers, however, by allowing these premiums as tax deductions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! As it is now 2 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House, consideration of notices is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Hunt)  agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion of notice No. 1 on the general business paper be extended. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) I am advised that consolidated figures for (a) workers' compensation and (b) compulsory third party premiums are available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics Bulletin 
General Insurance- Australia' and the Insurance Commissioner's Annual Report. The former publication, containing 1975-76 figures, will not be completed before May 1977 and the latter towards the end of the year. 
According to the Insurance Commissioner's Second Annual Report premiums collected were: 
$575,461,000 
$306,356,000 
I should point out that the Insurance Commissioner's Report indicates that the tables from which the figures are compiled contain information in respect of the financial years of organisations ending during the 1974-75 financial year. 
National aggregates of benefits paid (including legal, hospital and medical costs) are available in the  Insurance  Commissioner's Annual Report; administration expenses and commissions are also available in that Report and in the Australian Bureau of Statistics Bulletin (see 1 ). Separate figures for legal expenses and hospital and medical expenses are not available and must be estimated. When these publications become available the estimates for 1975-76 prepared by the interdepartmental working parties will be reviewed by my Department in consultation with the appropriate State authorities who are currently responsible for the existing compensation systems. 
According to the Insurance Commissioner's Second Annual Report benefits (including legal, hospital and medical costs) paid and administration expenses and commissions were: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Where a person voluntarily ceases work without good reason the date of commencement of unemployment benefit is postponed for six weeks. 
Yes. However, the postponment provisions can be applied to the new claim if considered justified. 
Not applicable in view of answer (2). 
Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration (Question No. 2060) 
The answer to he honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The testings of liquor for adulteration would be undertaken by my Department upon referral of samples by the Licensing Authorities who, under the Licensing Ordinance, have the power to search, seize and have tested any liquor suspected of being adulterated. My Department has not had liquor referred to it by the Licensing Authorities for testing. Because of the above Ordinance my Department does not undertake routine testing of liquor. 
and (3) Your question may be more properly directed to my colleague the Minister for the Northern Territory who has responsibility for the administration of the Licensing Ordinance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The following tables show the total estimated costs of projects approved and the total amount of funds spent on those projects in the Division of Macarthur for the years shown. It is not possible to give the appropriation figures, as requested, as projects are not appropriated individually. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Prime Minister announced in this House on 2 June 1976 that the Government would not proclaim the Children's Commission Act. The Prime Minister announced at that time that the Government was creating an office of Child Care within the Department of Social Security. 
Interdepartmental Committee on South Sea Islanders (Question No. 1940) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2)I have not received the report of the Interdepartmental Committee on South Sea Islanders. 
I have asked the Committee to finalise the report without further delay and I will table the Report as soon as it is received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) This depends on the definition of 'recovery'. A person 's full recovery has only occurred when all the adverse effects of the nature quotedhave disappeared. This disease is known to require a long 'convalescence' in many casesconvalescence being defined as the period between the cessation of the 'acute' symptoms of the disease, and final full recovery. 
The intake of alcohol could deleteriously affect the patient's liver- for this reason it is usually recommended that such people avoid alcohol for a period after the illness. 
Hepatitis is certainly infectious and can spread from one person to another by what is known as the 'faecal-oral' route. Close contact including sexual intercourse can also spread the disease. 
(a) Yes, during the acute phase of the illness. 
Preferably, particularly underclothing, although a thorough boiling of all clothes together would destroy the virus and thus prevent spread to other people 's clothing. 
Preferably, during the acute infectious stage. 
Yes. 
Yes, if the patient is not extremely thorough in his or her personal hygiene- particularly hand washing. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not consider it desirable or practicable to name the towns. In some New South Wales country towns, private doctors are refusing to treat standard Medibank hospital patients. We know it goes on and that the degree to which doctors are not co-operating varies from town to town. I do not think it fair to attempt to list the towns. In the first place there would be a risk of the list not being exhaustive, and secondly, of the possibility of a stigma being attached to those listed towns, or their doctors, in which only a small minority of the doctors are carrying out what I consider an unethical practice. 
This matter is of continuing concern to the Government and I have offered the Minister for Health in New South Wales any help that I can give to try to resolve the problem and have appealed to the Australian Medical Association to campaign among its members for a cessation of this discriminatory practice which, I am glad to say, is restricted to a minority of its members. 
I am aware from statements recently reported in the Queensland Press that the Queensland Council of Social Service is having difficulty in meeting staff payment commitments it had made. The Queensland Minister for Health stated recently that the Queensland Government had no funds available to it to help the Council. The honourable member will recall that on coming to power the Government allocated a further $60,000 to the Council to enable it to honour its commitments. The Government has no further funds available to it at this time to assist the Council. In addition to Government support, the Council may call upon community and voluntary organisations for support, as one would have thought it would have done already. I suggest that it do that immediately to overcome its budgetary problem. However, I will refer the totality of the question to the Minister for Social Security. No doubt she will provide the most up-to-date information for the honourable member's benefit. 
In view of the fact that no powers are available to the Capital Territory Health Commission to prevent the establishment of abortion clinics in Canberra, I have asked the Commissioner of the Capital Territory Health Commission to confer with the principals of PSI- Population Services International, which is a strange name for such an organisation- and to advise them to defer the opening of the abortion clinic until all the health and legal aspects have been given full consideration. I have had discussions with the Attorney-General and the Minister for the Capital Territory about this matter. As this issue has far-reaching social consequences for the people of the Australian Capital Territory, I feel it should be discussed and debated by the elected members of the Legislative Assembly in Canberra. Until sufficient time is given to enable these matters to be appropriately debated by people at the local level and all the health and legal aspects are given appropriate consideration, PSI would be very wise to defer the opening of its clinic If it does go ahead without these things being done, it could well do so at its own risk. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961 I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The honourable member will recall that this Government inherited the problems and difficulties within the medical profession in Canberra which arose as a result of some very unfortunate political decisions that were taken by the former Government. These decisions caused divisions between visiting medical officers and salaried specialists in Canberra. We appointed Professor Hughes, a man of considerable repute and the  President  of the Australasian Royal College of Surgeons, to report on the situation. Professor Hughes chaired a working party consisting of representatives from the salaried specialists council and the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association. A report was duly presented to me and was tabled in the Parliament. It became the basis upon which the Government took a policy decision for the future clinical administration of the hospitals in Canberra. 
The Capital Territory Health Commission has pursued in general the recommendations that arose from that report. It was decided that all doctors who were permitted to practise in those hospitals prior to the introduction of the Hughes recommendations would be able to do so but that from 1 December all doctors who wished to practise at those hospitals in the future would ave to go before the Medical Advisory Committee. Through the unit system in Canberra we have now established an inbuilt peer review system which we hope will ensure that the standards of medical practice in Canberra are at least equivalent to those that exist throughout the Commonwealth. As the honourable member would know, we have been concerned to try to improve the professional standards of the medical profession throughout the Commonwealth. Only 3 weeks ago I attended a seminar organised by the Australian Medical Association- it was boycotted by the General Practitioners' Society- to work out a system that would satisfy the wish of this Government to institute peer review. Great progress is being made and I hope that in the not too distant future I will be able to report to the Parliament in full on that matter. I am quite confident that in the future we will see a better working relationship between the private practitioners and the salaried staff, for whom I have the highest regard. The peer review should ensure that we have proper standards in Canberra. 
This has been the position since Medibank was introduced on 1 July 197S. I can assure the honourable member that the matter is under active consideration by my Department and indeed by the Government at the present time. The honourable member quite rightly refers to the 'user pay ' principle. There is no such thing as a free lunch, as the Prime Minister has often said, and I do not think there is any such thing as a free needle. Someone has to pay for it. One would think that those people who can afford to go for a trip overseas for one reason or another undoubtedly could afford to pay for vaccination. 
My attention has been drawn to the suggestion that has been made in Tasmania that all tourists within Australia before going to Queensland should have a cholera injection. That is a complete and utter nonsense because tourists travelling within Australia do not have to undertake any such vaccinations. One would assume that both Tasmania and Queensland are still parts of the Commonwealth. However, I thank the honourable member for the question because I am in a position now to advise the House that the World Health Organisation has removed Australia from the list of countries with cholera infection. No further cases of cholera have been reported in Brisbane. I take this opportunity of paying the Queensland health authorities a compliment for the way in which they have overcome the infection problem in Brisbane. Nevertheless, tourists going overseas will need to be sure before leaving that the countries to which they are going do not have a requirement for vaccination against cholera. We hope to be in a position in the next few days to announce that no countries will have that restriction against Australia. 
I thank the honourable member for Lang for the question. The only point that I wish to make in addition to those that I made in the House a few days ago is that the Capital Territory Health Commission considered the safety and medical aspects of the operation of free standing abortion clinics at its meeting yesterday. I am awaiting a formal report from the Commission. However, I have been informed that the Capital Territory Health Commission gave consideration to a report from the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists on the health aspects of free standing abortion clinics. It is my understanding that the Commission is concerned that proper health safeguards should be imposed to ensure the safety of patients receiving any clinical service. It is recommended that properly qualified staff should undertake such operations in clinics within hospitals conducted by public authorities. The Capital Territory Health Commission will be formally reporting this recommendation to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. The Government has asked the Assembly to give urgent consideration to both the political and social consequences and aspects of PSI 's intended operations in Canberra and the desirability of free standing abortion clinics in Canberra. The Government firmly believes that the Legislative Assembly should devote its attention as urgently as possible to this matter. 
I reiterate my public advice to Population Services International that it would not be wise to pre-empt the debate and final decisions of the elected representatives of Canberra in the Legislative Assembly. I have heard the reports to which the honourable member has referred. In view of the legal, health and local community attitudes, I think that it would be wise to heed my warning at this stage. 
I have seen the Press reports that appeared in the  Australian  last week in relation to a story that Dennis Lillee would not be eligible for Medibank benefits. I have replied by way of a letter today to the  Australian  stating the facts. For the benefit of the House, the facts are as follows: Professional sportsmen, as all Australians, are entitled to health insurance benefits from Medibank Standard or from any other fund. However, health insurance benefits may not be paid where persons are covered by workers' compensation. This amendment to the Health Insurance Act was passed by this House and became effective as from 1 October. Prior to the amendment huge sums of money were being paid by the Government- therefore by the taxpayersto insurance companies. In fact our investigations indicated that in the last financial year $30m was paid out to insurance companies which would otherwise have had to cover workers, sportsmen or other people who were covered under workers' compensation. There is no question of professional sportsmen- or for that matter amateur sportsmen like the honourable member for Swan- or any others being denied medical benefits if they are not entitled to compensation. 
In response to the second part of the honourable member's question, let me state that benefits for dental services are not presently provided by Medibank. However, a number of private health insurance organisations offer supplementary benefits. Conditions for payment of medical benefits would generally apply equally to the payment of dental benefits for injuries sustained in sport. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
8 September 1976. 
South Australia: 12 October 1976. Western Australia: 1 February 1977. Tasmania: 24 February 1977. Victoria: 4 March 1977. 
New South Wales and Queensland have not yet supplied the required information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Towards the end of May, 1976, the Government announced that the hospital agreements were invalid in terms of the provisions of the Health Insurance Act. This announcement was based on advice received from the Commonwealth Attorney-General and the Commonwealth Solicitor-General. Payments under the agreements were thereupon discontinued. In order that the State Governments could continue to receive, on an interim basis, the amounts to 30 September 1976 that they would otherwise have received under the agreements, the States Grants (Hospital Operating Costs) Act 1976 was enacted which authorised the Treasurer to make payments to the States not exceeding in aggregate, the amount of S3 1 5m. 
On 28 June 1976, the Treasurer authorised payments to the States of advance payments totalling $294.5m. This was the amount estimated as being the Commonwealth's share of the net costs of operating the States' hospital systems from the end of May until 30 September 1976. Included in these advance payments was an amount of $78.9m, being the estimate of the amount owing by the Commonwealth to meet its share of net operating costs to 30 June 1976. 
A reference to this was included in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) Statement No. 3-Estimates of Outlays 1976-77 (p. 69) presented by the Treasurer on 1 7 August 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Information as to the provisions in the rules of the four Western Australian Health benefits organisations concerning election rights of contributors was available from Departmental sources. Much of the rest of the information supplied to Senate Coleman was obtained from the organisations. 
and (4) Information relating to election provisions in the remaining 79 organisations throughout Australia is, in the main, available from Departmental sources (i.e. the first part of Question 1204). However, the much wider information sought by the honourable member in the other two related parts of Question No. 1204 is not so available and it seemed inconsistent with the whole tenor of the honourable member's question to supply only part of the information before the rest became available. 
In my answer to that question I pointed out that the question of consumer representation is currently being examined and if the information sought by the honourable member in Question 1204 became available I would be only too happy to provide it for him. As it could be some time before the information becomes available my Department is writing to all registered health benefits organisations so that all the information sought by the honourable member may be supplied to him as soon as practicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Quality control and chemistry tests on new drugs are not undertaken in processing applications for marketing. Evaluation of data submitted by drug companies sponsoring new drugs includes assessment of chemistry and quality control procedures. This is co-ordinated with evaluation of toxicological, pharmacological and clinical data. 
Evaluation of chemistry and quality control procedures may take a considerable time depending to a large extent on the adequacy of the data provided by the drug company. The times taken by the National Biological Standards Laboratory from receipt of the data to the issue of the 15 reports on general marketing applications during the 6 months ending 3 1 Janury 1977 were as follows: 7 required 3 months 3 required 6 months 3 required 8 months 1 required 13 months 1 required 14 months. 
See(1). 
Yes. The problem is not great in regard to laboratory testing itself. However, there have been increasing delays in evaluation of marketing applications, in spite of a high degree of efficiency on the part of NBSL staff. Unfortunately, there has been a serious shortage of suitably qualified staff capable of dealing with the evaluation of chemistry and quality control data but this is being rectified in two ways: 
Firstly, it is hoped to recruit additional permanent staff to this area in the near future and, secondly, a proportion of the outstanding evaluation work will be allocated to external evaluators being recruited at the present time. These are distinguished pharmaceutical chemists currently working in univerities and schools of pharmacy. 
The problem in respect of waiting times is due to 2 factors. One is the popularity and efficiency of the National Acoustic Laboratories in Sydney and some other cities. There is a waiting period of 8 months in Sydney, as the honourable member has mentioned. I am currently discussing with my Department the problem concerning staffing at the National Acoustic Laboratories in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth. I hope that as soon as we have completed our review I can bring the honourable member better news. 
The Government is currently undertaking a complete review into bulk billing in respect of services provided to patients other than pensioners and their dependants and repatriation beneficiaries, particularly in relation to charges by pathologists. I have also asked my departmental officers to undertake in conjunction with the Health Insurance Commission a complete review of bulk billing of medical fees. I have been concerned that a number of commercial free standing abortion clinics operating in a number of capital cities, excluding the Australian Capital Territory at the present time, have been using bulk billing as a means of obtaining revenue to run their clinics and I will be looking very seriously at this aspect of their operations. 
This matter of public importance is clearly nonsense. It states: 
The failure of the Government's Medibank changes to satisfy the community's need for health insurance. 
I did quite a lot of research, expecting from the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  some really astonishing argument that would put me on my mettle. I am afraid he has not come good. I think his argument was about as effective as the claim made last year that Medibank had been dismantled by this Government, which of course was also a complete and utter untruth. The modifications that were introduced on 1 October have been implemented. They are working extremely well. There have been administrative problems, but the Health Insurance Commission has them well in hand. I take this opportunity of paying  Mr Williams,  the General Manager of Medibank, and his staff full credit for the way in which they have been able to accommodate the modifications that were made effective as from 1 October. I will accept the fact that there were some difficulties in adjusting the administrative system to accommodate the modifications, but generally the scheme has settled down extremely well and we believe it is operating beneficially to the Australian people. 
There is no such thing as free health care. The community does pay one way or another. To that extent, I agree with the honourable member for Maribyrnong that the community will pay by one means or another. It is true to say that what we did was to redistribute or reallocate the means of paying for it. There are already indications that in the first months of operation we could well see a $150m saving or reduction on the estimates that we made earlier in the year. So it is running extremely well and we are effecting efficiencies that needed to be effected. 
The facts are that in less than 12 months the Australian Labor Party's Medibank dream became nothing short of an economic nightmare. The scheme soon became plagued by allegations of abuses and rip-offs, and it would have cost taxpayers no less than $2000m, probably more than that, in this financial year. Health costs have been exploding in this country at an uncontrollable rate, far in excess of the already excessive rate of inflation generated by the Whitlam Government, which undoubtedly must go down in history as the most economically incompetent of governments ever to govern this country. It was a government which inherited a stable economy in 1972 but which in 3 years reduced Australia to one of the worst economic categories in the Western world. 
When Labor assumed office in 1972 there were 136 000 people or 2.4 per cent of the work force unemployed. By December 1975 there were 330 000 or 5.4 per cent unemployed. Inflation in 1972 was 4.6 per cent, but when Labor went out of office it was 14.1 per cent. The Whitlam Government inherited a Budget deficit of $774m, but by 1975-76 it was escalating to $4000m. Receipts from personal income tax increased by 89 per cent in the first 2 years under the Labor Government, and indirect taxation increased by 28 per cent. In the wake of the inflation generated by the Whitlam Government unemployment rose by over 150 per cent. 
The whole health insurance proposal introduced by Labor was open-ended and gave no consideration to any checks or balances, which seemed to be characteristic of so many schemes that Labor introduced. No emphasis was given to quality assurance or to peer review in the medical profession. The honourable member for Maribyrnong mentioned that. It has been this Government that has entered into discussions with the Australian Medical Association to bring about peer review and try to get some quality assurance and quality assessment within the medical profession. We have also informed the AMA that we would expect it to undertake peer review systems within the profession at the end of a 3 year period. 
The quality of health care was not a priority under Labor's Medibank scheme. People were brainwashed into believing that they were receiving free health care. Australia was certainly heading down the same road as the United Kingdom with its national health scheme. I am reminded of the old saying that any government that is big enough to give you all you want is strong enough to take away everything you have. This is precisely what was going on under the Whitlam socialist regime. This is precisely why the Fraser Government had to take some hard decisions. Many of the decisions that were taken last year were hard decisions. One of them was a decision to introduce full indexation of personal income tax to the rate of inflation. Such a scheme was designed to stop the Government making huge income tax rake-offs as a result of inflation. It represents a gain in this financial year of $ 1,000m to taxpayers and over $ 1,000m to taxpayers in the next financial year. This would not have been possible if we had not made modifications to the method of paying for universal health insurance. Responsible administration demanded that the present Government take action to bring the exploding costs of universal health insurance under control. 
Our estimate of health costs in Australia, including both the public and the private sector, for this financial year was about $5,400m, which is an enormous sum of money in anybody's language when compared with the value of exports of iron ore, coal, wool, wheat and meat which we anticipate will amount to about $4,500m. So we were looking at a figure of $5,400m, exploding health costs, with no guarantee that the health of the Australian people was getting any better. Nor was there any guarantee that the Government resources were being allocated to those in greatest need. If we had allowed the situation to go on unchanged, the cost of universal health insurance would rapidly have consumed the social welfare dollar in this country. There was no attempt to direct the scarce resources in the health area to the needy sections of the community by means of the health insurance system. It is true that community health centres were being established. I give credit to the former Government for having initiated the community health program. It was a very worthy program. 
I think that it does assist but I do not for one moment believe that a universal health insurance system does anything actually to ensure that the quality of health care is improved. It is true that it helps people to pay for their health costs, but under the system which the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was responsible for introducing, the richest and the poorest could receive the same care at no direct cost to them. In order to tidy up an unholy mess, the Government commissioned the Medibank Review Committee under  Mr Austin  Holmes and a pathology working party under  Dr Sax.  The honourable member for Maribyrnong made great play on the difficulties and some of the abuses that have been going on in the pathology area. But what did his Government do about them? Not one thing. It did not do a thing about the abuses that were going on in the pathology area. It was this Government that set up the pathology working party under  Dr Sax.  Its first report has been tabled and has been acted upon. Its second report is in my hands at the present time. Some of the matters which the honourable member for Maribyrnong has mentioned will be dealt with very shortly. 
In the course of those inquiries certain irregularities became apparent. Recommendations were made to the Government in respect of the operations of universal health insurance, charging and professional conduct in the pathology area. The Government has not hesitated to act where loopholes for abuses existed and where abuses were taking place in the public interest. There was no provision for anything but an open-ended arrangement with the States whereby the States passed on to the Commonwealth on a monthly basis their bills for the operating costs of the hospitals. We have renegotiated the hospitals agreements with the States so that there is proper accountability as between the Commonwealth and the States. Already those joint committees have been responsible for shaving off $ 126m from the original estimates. Half of that benefit goes to the States and half goes to the Commonwealth. The total benefit goes to the Australian taxpayer who is paying the price anyway. 
On the medical side of Medibank, the cost could be $ 100m under our earlier estimates. It is too early to be accurate but clearly we are getting towards that possibility. The new arrangements that became operative on 1 October, far from taking from the needy to support the affluent, are firmly based upon the capacity of the people to pay. Those on the lowest incomes and most pensioners pay nothing for Medibank benefits. Those on the highest incomes pay up to 15 per cent of real costs for Medibank Standard. Those who pay  2Vi  per cent plus the hospital only- on average they are the middle income people- are meeting approximately 40 per cent of their health care costs. Those who take out the full private insurance are naturally, generally speaking, those in the higher income levels. They are contributing about 70 per cent on average of their total health care costs. The universal health cost cover has been retained. Of course Medibank has been retained. In fact it has been broadened so that its function also provides for private health insurance. I am pleased to say that Medibank Private is now the second biggest private insurance fund in Australia. I repeat that everybody in this country is covered for health insurance but people pay according to their means. 
The new arrangements have introduced a dual system of public-private competition with inbuilt cost restraints on the private sector and the medical profession. The profession is conscious of this change and the need for moderation in fee increases. The entry of Medibank Private into the market can only increase competition between the funds and make them all the more efficient, which is undoubtedly in the public interest. The fact that 70 per cent of the Australian people retained private health insurance was very much a deciding factor in our planning for modifications. Clearly a significant percentage of the Australian people wanted the doctor of their choice in hospital, and the modifications that we made accommodated that obvious desire. One of the encouraging signs that became very clear to us after the modifications were implemented came from the Australian Hospital Association itself. It stated publicly that the Government's health insurance proposals had made the first real attempt to come to grips with the enormous escalation in health cost while maintaining the principles of universal health insurance. The new system provided private medical practice in Australia with the opportunity to show its responsibility in the constraint of costs. With half the population insured privately under the new arrangements the onus would be on doctors to ensure that their fees did not rise faster than the rate of increase in average weekly earnings and that they did not provide excessive services. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong raised the point that it is the doctors who make the decisions and not the public at large. Of course that it so. Unless the medical profession responded by exercising professional responsibility and restraint, the premiums that people would have to pay for private insurance would inevitably rise to a point at which many people would have no incentive to remain privately insured. The lesson to be learnt from any universal health insurance system around the world is that unless there are proper inbuilt cost constraint mechanisms- I know that the honourable member for Oxley agrees with this- clearly the cost will get completely out of hand and will consume the social welfare dollar. We were on the road in Australia. I am sure that inwardly the honourable member for Oxley blesses what we did. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) and (2) The number of persons receiving pensions in the Electoral Division of Perth as at 30 June, 1976 by type of pension received was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. This was the most accurate projection which could be made based on the progress to that time of the construction and training programs. 
No precise date can be given until the review has been completed. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following table in answer to the honourable member's question: 
The honourable member for Fremantle reminds us of a debate that took place in another Parliament at another time when quite obviously the former Government was trying to make the Australian Capital Territory and its people the guinea pigs in a social laboratory. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

Time and again we had debates on issues for the Australian Capital Territory in areas over which the Commonwealth itself - 
We have decided as a government, and quite rightly so, that matters relating to the Australian Capital Territory, matters that have great social consequence and matters that have wide-ranging consequences for the people in this community will be debated, discussed and decided by those people who were elected by the local community. I pay full credit to the way in which members of the Legislative Assembly have faced up to taking decisions- 
-I beg your pardon? 
So are you. You are a gutless wonder yourself. 
I will see you afterwards. 
We will see how gutless you are. 

 - Mr Speaker, I withdraw unreservedly, apologise to the honourable member for Blaxland, to you and to the House for my part in that recent exchange. 
I conclude by saying that the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly voted to ban abortions outside the recognised hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory for a 90-day period during which time it will debate the wider issues and take decisions in respect of the way in which abortions will be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Yes. 
(a) age pensions and widow's pensions. 
and (c) the amount of the supplement varies; it is the amount by which any relevant United Kingdom pension is less than the Australian pension that would be payable under the income test. In determining the amount of the supplement the United Kingdom pension is not counted as income. A former resident of the United Kingdom who is accepted as permanently resident in Australia may be assisted under the Reciprocal Agreement to qualify for Australian pension. For this purpose residence in the United Kingdom, as well as the period of the journey to Australia (if that is less than 1 3 weeks) is treated as residence in Australia. 
The cost to revenue of providing the supplements is estimated to be $23m per annum. 
At 30 June 1976 there were IS 399 age pensions and 638 widows' pensions payable under the Reciprocal Agreement with the United Kingdom. 
Pensioners in Division of Perth  (Question No. 9) 

 -Mr Speaker, may I have your indulgence to give additional information to that given in reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Corio? 
Women, as well as men, must undergo a proper test to be eligible for unemployment benefit, but I do not want to go into the detail of the answer at this stage. I shall get the appropriate answer in detail for the honourable gentleman from the Minister for Social Security. All people who apply for social service unemployment benefit must undergo a work test. 
The honourable member will be pleased to know that the investigation that I commenced within my Department has been completed and that a charge for vaccinations against disease will apply to privately insured people who are travelling overseas. Arrangements are now being made to implement the necessary administrative requirements. We anticipate that the saving to taxpayers generally will be in the vicinity of $3m in a full year. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
A basic criterion in the definition of a handicapped child for the purposes of Handicapped Child's Allowance is that the child requires constant care and attention by reason of his physical or mental disability. 
In view of this definition it is not practicable or desirable to set down a blanket rule that children with below-the-elbow or below-the-knee amputations are or are not entitled to Handicapped Child's Allowance. Each claim is considered on its ments taking into account the severity of the handicap, any secondary disability and the ability of the child to cope with his handicap. 
The claim has provision for the parents to advise if appropriate, of the child's difficulties in eating, toilet, mobility, behaviour, speech, language, hearing and of the special care and attention provided including number of hours per day care is required. This assessment and the report completed by the child's supervising doctor are then considered by a Commonwealth Medical Officer employed by the Department of Health, who certifies whether the child can be accepted as severely handicapped for the purpose of the allowance. 
Prime Minister's Visits to the United States  (Question No. 388) 
-I table on behalf of the Minister for Social Security the Occupational Superannuation in Australia report, which is the final report of the National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry, Part II, published March 1977. 
-I thought this would happen. The grand illusion has come to an end. I have not sought legal advice. I am not sure that the  Australian Financial Review  was trying to promote me. When I looked at the photograph I thought that perhaps it was. Having read the article, I am not so sure. I know that there is a provision in the Trade Practices Act in regard to grade, quality and style. I do not think I have been misrepresented in those aspects, but perhaps I have in respect of model. I confess that I am a 1928 model. My birthday is tomorrow. The photograph was taken, I think, 8 years ago. I have more contemporary ones which reflect the hazardous and harassing experience of trying to care for the health of the nation and to maintain Medibank. I do not know that I have improved with age. I might have mellowed a bit, as a good wine from the Hunter Valley might do. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Information in the form requested is not available. However, 6893 school leavers applied for unemployment benefit during the week in which the official school year resumed in their respective States. It should be noted that the date of commencement of the school year differs from State to State. 
By 1 1 March 1977 22 2 15 school leavers had applied for unemployment benefit since the end of the week in which the official school year resumed. Separate figures for males and females are not available. 
Statistics of school leavers currently in receipt of unemployment benefit are not available. However, to 1 1 March 1977 32 368 school leavers had been granted unemployment benefit. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
School leavers were not entitled to unemployment benefit during the school vacation. Special benefit was available during that period, however, to school leavers who were suffering hardship and who were taking reasonable steps to obtain work. A total of 131 special benefits were granted to school leavers during the period 29 November 1976 to the end of the week in which school resumed in each State. Separate figures for males and females are not available. 
The cost of special benefits granted to school leavers during the period mentioned in (1) above is estimated as $13,000. 
Between 29 November 1976 and the official resumption of the school year in each State 34 455 school leavers lodged claims for unemployment benefit. It is estimated that if benefit had been paid to these claimants from seven days after lodgement of the claim to the official resumption of the school year, the cost to revenue would have been approximately $5. 5m. 
Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health  (Question No. 138) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Statistics of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries cross classified simultaneously by sex, marital status and birthplace are not available. However, statistics of unemployment beneficiaries cross classified by sex and birthplace are available from the quarterly surveys of unemployment benefit recipients conducted by the Depanment of Social Security. The following table  shows  the sex and birthplace of unemployment benefit recipients included in the survey of 5 November 1976. Similar information is not available in respect of sickness benefit recipients. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) No. A joint investigation by the Social Security Depanment, the Department of Health, and the Commonwealth Police on matters concerned with the possible unauthorised use of computers has been completed. All computer usage records since mid-December 1976 for computers used by officers of the Department of Social Security have been examined and there is no indication that work of an unauthorised nature for private gain has been carried out. 
) Recreation Leave taken by officers of the ADP Branch of the Department of Social Security since I January 1977 has, as far as can be ascertained, been for holiday or domestic reasons. It is necessary to ensure that the ADP Branch is always adequately staffed and therefore officers who normally work together do not take leave for the same period. Visits of officers from Central Office, Canberra to Melbourne since 1 January 1977 have been for periods of a few days only and have been properly authorised for the purpose of implementing changes to Social Security computer programs. 
My Department is unaware that any officer has received any money in payment for work of a private nature. 
-. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Illness from radioactive emissions can take 3 formsacute, chronic or long delayed. Depending on the dosage, radiation sickness can also be accompanied by burns. 
I am advised that all major hospitals in Sydney together with the Sutherland and Wollongong Hospitals have the resources to cope with illness caused by radioactive emissions. 
As a back up to the treatment facilities there are, I understand, full haematological investigational facilities available through the hospitals and chromosomal studies through the N.S.W. Health Commission. 
In addition certain specialised tests are readily available by arrangement with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Australian Radiation Laboratory. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
See answer to question No. 558. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the  hourable  member's question: 
The information sought is not available but it is considered that the number of persons who would have qualified for pensions because of the substitution of an income test for the former means test would be small. 
Commonwealth Contracts: Electoral Division of Perth  (Question No. IS) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In replacing the means test (income plus assets) on pensions and supporting mothers benefit with an income test only, special transitional arrangements were adopted to ensure that no existing pensioner or beneficiary would suffer a reduction in existing pension or benefit payments as a result of the change. The cost of the change-over on this basis for 1976-77 was estimated to be $7 million. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am pleased to inform the House that the Australian Medical Association has cooperated with the heads of government in their call for a wages and prices freeze. The Australian Medical Association has effectively adopted an 8-month freeze on doctors' fees. The Association has agreed to participate in a government initiated inquiry into fees for the year commencing 1 January 1978 and that fee inquiry will be conducted under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Ludeke. The Australian Medical Association also has asked its fees bureau to review the Association's own list of medical services and fees but there is no intention at this stage to change the list before 1 January 1978. Indeed, a great many doctors are presently petitioning their membership for a freeze for at least the next 12 months, probably commencing on 1 January 1978. So the Australian Medical Association and certainly a large percentage of the medical profession have responded admirably to the call. 
Their average income was considerably increased when the honourable member's Party initiated Medibank and their fees went up by about 58 per cent while Labor was in government. Last year the Australian Medical Association agreed quite voluntarily to set a  7Vi  per cent average increase limit on their fees for this financial year. 
-I should have thought that the Leader of the Opposition would have known the answer to the question before he asked it because in his term as Prime Minister 2 fee inquiries were held in private. As the Leader of the Opposition would understand, the Australian Medical Association or the medical profession is not under any statutory obligation or under any constitutional obligation to have the Commonwealth interfere with its fee adjustments, but by agreement with several governments, including the government led by the Leader of the Opposition, the Australian Medical Association agreed to participate in inquiries. It has done so on this occasion. This inquiry will be held in private but the report will be made public. 
Last November the Government passed legislation to increase pensions each May and November in line with the consumer price index. I can assure the honourable member and all honourable members- indeed, I can assure all pensioners- that social security pensioners and their beneficiaries will receive increases due to them from the first pay period in May. The maximum increase will be $3.60 a week in the standard rate of pension and $6 a week in the combined married rate. The maximum standard rate will then become $47.10 a week from May 1977. The maximum combined married rate will then become $78.50 a week from May 1977. 1 think it is worthwhile to remind the House that all pensioners in Australia will then have benefited to the extent of an additional $8 13m since the Fraser Government came to office. In the last week of April the Minister for Social Security will be advising all the pensioners and their beneficiaries of this change. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The organisations which furnished their annual returns (a) for 1974-75 after 30 September 1975 and (b) for 1975-76 after 30 September 1976, together with the date on which each was received by my Department are set out hereunder: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The only Regional Council whose boundaries include part of the electoral division of Capricornia is the Fitzroy Regional Council for Social Development based in Rockhampton. 
The information provided is in respect ofthe whole area of the Council, as it is not possible to apportion the costs to the Government between divisions within the Council 's boundaries. The costs to the Commonwealth Government are made up as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Minister for Health of Saudi Arabia,  Dr H.  al-Jazaeri, visited Australia, as a guest of the Government, from 1 6th to 21 March. The purpose of his visit was to look into the provision of aerial medical services to remote areas. After discussions in Canberra, he visited Alice Springs and observed the operations of the Northern Territory Aerial Medical Service and the Royal Flying Doctor Service. He was taken on a demonstration flight in a Nomad aircraft and later, in Melbourne, he inspected a Nomad aircraft fitted out for aerial medical service. 
No request for assistance or advice has yet been received from  Dr al-Jasaeri  or from the Saudi Arabian Government, but  Dr al-Jazaeri  indicated, during his visit, that he was considering calling upon Australian expertise in this area to help establish an aerial medical service in Saudi Arabia. Should such a request be received, it could lead to a collaborative program, with the Saudi Arabian Government paying for the services of Australian experts, rather than an Australian aid program. 
I would give very sympathetic consideration to any request from the Government of Saudi Arabia for a collaborative program which would allow Australia to utilize the expertise it has developed in this field so as to assist in the establishment of an aerial medical service in Saudi Arabia. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The latest statistics of pensioners in electoral divisions, by type of pension, compiled by the Department of Social Security are in respect ofthe position at 30 June 1976. 1 understand that booklets containing this information were forwarded to the honourable member's office on 30 March. Statistics of pensioners residing in electoral divisions are not maintained by the Department and have to be compiled manually from statistics of pensioners living in the relevant postcode areas. To update the information contained in the booklets to 30 March 1977 would require many man-hours' work which cannot be undertaken at present. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Details of expenditure by electoral divisions are not maintained by my department. 
However, some information about expenditures for more recent periods under certain major programs is available for the divisions of Chifley, Macquarie, Mitchell, Parramatta, Prospect and Werriwa as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of the Health Program Grants payments by the Health Insurance Commission in 1975-76 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, unfortunately. 
The waiting period varies in that deaf children or children suspected of deafness are given priority over Repatriation Department entitlement holders and pensioners. Children are usually seen within 6 weeks while, at present, nonurgent pensioner cases may not be seen for up to twelve months. 
The length of the waiting list will vary according to the level of skilled staff at the Laboratories. Every effort is being made and will continue to be made to maintain that level as high as practicable. However, staff losses do occur from time to time and several months are needed to train a new appointee to the stage that the officer is able to accept a full clinical workload. As a consequence, any staff separation inevitably leads to some temporary extension of the waiting time. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Records are not maintained to show the breakdown by electoral divisions of expenditure under major programs of the Department of Social Security. 
Whilst the information sought is accessible for some programs involving relatively small numbers of grants and total expenditures, its compilation for all major programs would involve a detailed analysis of expenditure vouchers and other records for which staff resources are not at present available. 
Moreover, for many programs, figures supplied on the basis of electoral boundaries would be misleading if taken to indicate the extent to which facilities are provided for residents of the electoral division. Particularly in the case of urban electorates, homes, hostels, centres and the like serve a population drawn from areas extending beyond the electoral boundaries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Commission informs me that the figure of $42.00 is incorrect and that it should be $32.96. 
In response to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  I do not intend to dwell on the question relating to the nonpayment of unemployment benefits to school leavers during the last December and January school holidays. Let me explain the reason for that course.  Mr Justice  Stephen, in the High Court of Australia, handed down a judgment on Friday last resulting from the action of  Karen Christine Green (by her next friend Patricia Ann Truman)  v.  Laurie Daniels, Brian Wraith and the Commonwealth of Australia.  I seek leave to have the judgment incorporated in  Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The 5 facepieces referred to by the Minister for Defence in answer to question No. 549  (Hansard,  25 May 1 976, page 2446) came from Port Adelaide. These particular facepieces had not been serviced in accordance with requirements prior to their submission to the Materials Research Laboratories in March 1 976. 
Departmental instructions require that all facepieces are to be examined by senior quarantine personnel for defects at least once every 3 months. Except for South Australia all State divisional offices of the Department which hold facepieces have, in addition, over the last 3 years, submitted them to the Materials Research Laboratories at Maribyrnong, Victoria for servicing. In March 1975 South Australia introduced the same practice with the submission of the initial batch of facepieces to the Laboratories. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. One. The Storage area of a clothing factory in Wangaratta was sprayed and packaging materials destroyed. 
The honourable member for Calare would well know that Australia runs a constant risk of the entry of blue tongue virus and foot and mouth disease. This is a matter of constant worry to sheep and live stock breeders in Australia. Australia has had a very good record in respect of keeping such diseases from entering this country. It has achieved that record by strict surveillance through quarantine processes in this country. Blue tongue virus, of course, has never occurred in this country. We have decided that, in the event of blue tongue ever occurring, we should have vaccines available in an effort to overcome and to counter the problem. Last year I arranged with the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to send a number of officers to one of the research institutes in South Africa. Those officers returned to Australia with 14 purified strains of blue tongue which are now stored in the high security laboratory at the Melbourne headquarters of Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. They will not be used for any other purpose than to be kept for the purpose of manufacturing vaccines in the event of an outbreak of the virus in this country. Our aim is to ensure that, if an outbreak does occur, we will have immediately available the pure strains of blue tongue vaccine which will be necessary to try to overcome the problem as quickly as possible. I take the opportunity to say also that we are continuing to enforce the strictest rules and regulations in respect of quarantine generally, because if blue tongue or foot and mouth disease were to enter Australia this would spell disaster for the economy and for whole sections of the Australian community. 
As the matter is still incomplete and subject to discussions with  Mr Justice  Stephen and the other parties if they so wish, there is no point in pursuing this issue until the final declarations have been made and the Government has considered the reasons for any decisions that are given by the court. We feel that it is not a matter that should become the subject of political debate in this place. 
However, I nail the lie that the Government has shown a complete disregard for those school leavers who suffered hardship during that time. 
In cases that were brought to the Department's notice, compassionate consideration was given to specific cases. As a consequence of the compassion and concern of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Department, about 100 special benefits were paid to school leavers. This is not to say that some may have suffered hardship and the circumstances were unknown to the Department and to the Minister. However, where hardship cases were identified, special assistance was provided. In most cases where school leavers were living with and supported by parents, there was no greater hardship than when they were at school. I suspect that the Leader of the Opposition is doing his best to squeeze the last drop of political mileage out of this issue. I do not think that it does the honourable member any credit to be pursuing this issue at this time when the judgment of the High Court is still subject to judicial consideration. 
In respect of the claim that Aboriginals are being discriminated against, I categorically refute the allegation that the Department of Social Security or, for that matter, any other Department has discriminated against Aboriginal people. There are no changes in policy regarding the eligibility of Aboriginals since the Fraser Government came to office in 1975. Indeed, there is no discrimination against Aboriginals in the Social Service Act. The term 'Aboriginal' does not appear in the Act. 
Allegations have been made that a circular was distributed on 27 January 1977 by a  Mr E.  G. Cruice, Acting Assistant Director of Employment Services in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations.  Senator Grimes  in another place referred to this circular- and indeed the Leader of the Opposition incorporated it in  Hansard- as  an attempt to make a case that the Government was seeking to prevent Aboriginals living on settlements or missions from qualifying for unemployment benefits. This is just not true. It was never circulated. It is understood from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, Melbourne, that the circular was prepared to be sent to employment office managers, but all action was subsequently suspended. Thus the circular was not distributed with the authority of the central office. There has been no change in the policy under which Aboriginals may qualify for unemployment benefits without offering for work outside missions or settlements. It was not distributed. In the  Unemployment and Sickness 

 Benefits Manual, under the heading 'Unemployment Benefit', with regard to Aboriginals living on settlements or missions section 14 states that: 
Unemployment benefit is payable to Aboriginals living on settlements and missions provided they are capable of and willing to work and no such work is available on the settlement or mission, in other words, an Aboriginal is not required to leave the settlement or mission in order to qualify for unemployment benefit. 
One of the fundamental requirements of efficient administration of social welfare and unemployment benefits is to ensure that eligibility for benefits is determined. The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has an important responsibility in apply work tests to determine eligibility. Unemployment benefits, social welfare benefits and other benefits are designed to relieve people of hardship and suffering and are paid for by the taxpayers and the community generally. The Department and the Government have a very real responsibility to protect the community and the taxpayers from abuse. With this in view, it was felt that there needed to be a thorough review of the whole question of unemployment benefits in Australia. There are 2 inquiries under way now- the Norgard inquiry and the Myer inquiry. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the terms of reference of those inquiries which are seeking to ensure that justice is done both to those who are eligible to receive unemployment benefits and to the community generally. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The domiciliary nursing care benefit has been the subject of examination by 2 Government established enquiries in the health and welfare fields- the Committee on Care of the Aged and the Infirm and the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health. 
Reports of these enquiries were tabled by the Prime Minister on 17 February 1977. The report of the Committee on Care of the Aged and the Infirm included a recommendation that a Community Care Program should be established. The Committee also recommended that 'no new beneficiaries should be accepted under the Commonwealth Domiciliary Nursing Care Benefit after the introduction of a Community Care Program but the Committees advising on this Program should consider whether or not there is a need for some cash benefits'. 
The Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health proposed in its report that the domiciliary nursing care benefit, with envisaged possible modifications, be included in a Community Health and Care Program. 
When tabling the reports of the enquiries on 17 February 1977, the Prime Minister stated that the Government had not taken any firm decisions on the recommendations of the enquiries and that views expressed about the reports will be taken into account in the Government's continuing examination of them. 
I would like to thank the honourable member for raising this question of the statutory age eligibility criterion for the Domiciliary Nursing Care Benefit at this time and to assure him that this matter will be taken into account as appropriate by the Government in its consideration of the benefit and the recommendations in the reports of the enquiries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Only one substantiated report of an unauthorised landing by foreign fishermen on the north-west coast of Australia and adjacent islands has been received since 1 July 1975. The details of this incident were reported by the Minister for Primary Industry in response to Question No. 1765,  Hansard,  page 72 of 15 February 1977. 
Evidence of human activity has been reported on two occasions at Browse Island and on two occasions at Scott Reef during the period concerned. Reports have been received on five occasions (other than the occasion referred to above) of landings or of evidence that landings have occurred on Ashmore Reef. Traditional Indonesian fishermen are permitted to land on Ashmore Reef to take on supplies of fresh water. As each of the five reports resulted from air surveillance, it was not practical to confirm whether traditional Indonesian fishermen were involved. 
No reports have been received that animals have been landed by foreign fishermen. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The first draft model food Act, formulated by a joint Commonwealth/State Task Force, was referred by my Department to the States, Territories and, other appropriate Commonwealth departments for comments at the end of 1976. Comments are still awaited from some States and when these are received, a revised draft will be prepared. 
No. The intra-State pressures for the early introduction of date marking legislation have been recognised by the Food Standards Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) which has formulated a Standard for Date Marking of Packaged Short Life Foods. The Standard has been elaborated upon in close collaboration with State Food Advisory Committees, industry, consumers and other bodies. 
I understand that date stamping legislation introduced by some States is interim legislation. I would expect that the NHMRC Standard, when finally approved by Council, will be adopted by States and Territories m a uniform manner. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No reductions in overall quarantine staff numbers have occurred as a result of the implementation of new staff ceiling limits. Within the limits of the Government's staffing policies a small increase in total quarantine staff numbers has been achieved. 
The honourable member raised this point with me yesterday. I have made inquiries of the Minister for Social Security to ascertain the position and to clarify some of the questions that have arisen. The answer to the first 2 questions is yes. The Minister for Social Security indicated in another place on Tuesday that discussions on these matters raised in the honourable gentleman's question were to be held between the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and the Public Service Board and senior officers from the Department of Social Security. As a result of those discussions an offer was made to  Mr Campbell.  It was made jointly by the Board and the Department, and it was 3-pronged. If honourable gentlemen will just bear with me for a minute I would like to read those 3 prongs because they are of considerable interest to the public generally. The first is the immediate approval by the Board of an additional 218 positions in response to the Department's case put to the Board on 7 February 1977. These positions include 97 to restore the pools for training purposes to their 1975 level, plus 50 to undertake quarterly review of unemployment benefits, 36 to strengthen internal audit and field officer staff, 25 to strengthen the staff working in recovery of overpayments and 10 for automatic data processing planning. In addition the Board is recommending that the Department retain permanently 90 staff from the 150 it gained temporarily to undertake the additional work associated with moving from the means test to the income test for pensioners. This 90 staff will be applied to what are called form R reviews. 
The second offer was evidence that the Department is moving actively with its staff improvement program directed to restoring its training program, reviewing outdated systems and methods, updating its computer programs, equipment and so on. It was also indicated that an immediate examination would be made as to whether additional relief positions are required. The Board has agreed to participate in this exercise with the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following table shows the number of persons in receipt of the domiciliary nursing care benefit in each of the Slates and the Commonwealth at 24 February 1977, which is also the end of the fourth year of operation of the scheme: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am not aware of any submission by the Queensland State Government, to the Commonwealth, to establish a hospital in the Wynnum/Redlands district. 
) I am not aware of any approaches by the Queensland State Government to the Commonwealth for assistance. 
Under the hospitals Development Program, the Federal Government docs not fund individual projects, but makes funds available towards a total program of development. The States have the responsibility for the framing of the Program after which it is discussed in detail and agreed at meetings of Joint Commonwealth/State Standing Committees on Health Expenditure. The States have the responsibilities for the management of total funds both Federal and State. I understand that the Queensland Health Department considers that the development of the new Mount Gravatt Hospital will adequately serve the needs of the Wynnum/Redlands district. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2 ) Under the provisions of the Health Insurance Act, psychiatric patients in private hospitals and in publicgeneral hospitals are eligible for insurance coverage of their hospital expenses, but patients treated in State mental hospitals arc not. 
At the 1976 Health Ministers' Conference a submission was made by the States that patients in acute psychiatric hospitals-defined as hospitals or designated portions of hospitals which provide facilities, services and treatments equivalent to those provided hy similar sections of public hospitals- come under the Medibank cost-sharing arrangements. This submission was closely examined and, while I have some sympathy for the views of the States, I would find it particularly difficult to put forward such an increase in costs to the Commonwealth in the present economic climate. 
The Government could not accept these changes at the present time, but we will be looking at the issue with the aim  or  achieving the best results for these patients. Nevertheless, I must point out that the raising of charges is a State responsibility and currently all States except New South Wales and South Australia provide free services for psychiatric patients. South Australia raises charges only in respect of patients in hospital for more than 28 days. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The nursing requirement has been relaxed in relation to persons living in isolated rural areas where it is not physically possible for a nurse to visit and treat the patient on a regular basis involving at least two visits each week. 
Relaxation of the nursing requirement in this manner has enabled 164 persons to qualify for payment of the benefit who would otherwise have been excluded. 
The following is a list of localities in which persons have received the benefit because of the relaxation in the requirement for nursing care: 
New South Wales-Weris Creek, Manilla, Jeogla, Bendemeer. Pilliga, Maules Creek, Narrabri, Paleroo, Bellata. Bungwahl. Togganogerra, Dalgety, Tooma, Khancoban. Mulwala. Henty, Finley, Bribbaree, Goodnight. Valla. Old Bonalbo. Woodenbong, Green Pigeon. Horseshoe Creek. Forbes, Gurrundah, 
Boorowa, Grong Grong, Marra. Eumungerie. Stuart Town, Mendooran, Biddon, Weilmoringle, Mudgee. Dunedoo, Baradine. 
Victoria- Flowerdale, Digby, Omeo, Laanecoorie, Talbot. Watchem, Darlington. Korong Vale. Alecandra. Rocklands, Avon Plains, Ensay, Meredith. Nullawarre. Knowsley, Jancourt East. 
Queensland- Allora, Augathella, Barmoya. Bartle Frere. Berajondo, Blackall, Burrum Heads, Carmila. Clifton. Coalstoun Lakes, Coen, Cooktown, Cunnamulla. Dululu, Eidsvold, Freestone, Georgetown, Gin Gin. Goomeri, Gracemere, Harvey's Siding, Hughenden. Inglewood, Killarney, Kuttabul, Lowlands. Meandarra. Miriam Vale, Monto, Moore, Mount Eagle, Mount Garnet, Mount Sturt. Mungar, Obilbil. Paluma, Prairie. Proston, Raglan. Sellheim, Springbrook, Stelworth. Swanfels, Thursday Island, Wandoan, Waverley. Yarraman, Yelarbon. Yuleba. 
South Australia- Bower. Gawler River, Tintinara. Murray Town, Parrakie, Mataranka*, Mount Compass. ( * Northern Territory) 
Western Australia- Busselton, Doodlakine, Gairdner River, Goomalling, Mount Magnet, New Norcia. Nukarni, Pithara, Quairading, Wagin, Wyalkatchum. Yericoin. 
Tasmania- St Helens, Levendale, Tunnack. Woodsdale. Mount Seymour. Lulworth, Bridport. Pyengana, Swansea, West Kentish, Gunns Plains, West Pine, Cuprona. National Park, Mount Lloyd, Westerway, Ellendale. Grove. 
There is no general description which may bc applied in all cases to test whether a particular area is to bc considered a 'remote area' for the purpose of relaxing the requirement for multiple weekly nursing visits by a registered nurse. 
Each individual case must be assessed on its own merits. Basically, however, a remote area is one which is distant from any urban centre where home nursing services are readily available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. Abortions are performed throughout Australia in public and private hospitals, in clinics and in doctors surgeries. South Australia is the only State which specifically identifies the places where abortions may be performed. 
It is understood that a number of doctors perform abortions privately as part of their practice. The number of these is not known. 
The question no doubt relates to the number of freestanding clinics, which offer abortion and other fertility control services. There are at least four such clinics known in Australia, but there may be others of which the Commonwealth Government is unaware. 
The Commonwealth has no power to prevent the establishment of abortion clinics in the States. In the Territories, as my colleague will be aware, it is the government's policy that the legislative body established in each Territory should advise on all the legislation pertaining to that Territory. Whilst, therefore, the Commonwealth has the powers referred to, it would not propose to use them unless requested to do so by the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory or the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory. 
In the Australian Capital Territory the Legislative Assembly has introduced the Termination of Pregnancy (Temporary Provisions) Ordinance 1977. This Ordinance is now law and will have the effect of prohibiting abortions in the Territory otherwise than at Canberra's two public hospitals for a period of 90 days while the Assembly's Standing Committee on Education and Health inquires into the abortion issue generally. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
) Expenditure by the Department of Social Security (and its predecessor, the Department of Social Services) on welfare is shown in the following table: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am not aware as to the reason for the delay. However, I wrote again to the New South Wales Government on 20 April 1977, seeking an early reply to my previous request. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bank of New South Wales. Statutory authorities 'of a business nature' are required to use the normal banking system in the same way as other private business concerns with which they compete; Reserve Bank policy does not permit them to bank with the Reserve Bank. Medibank Private clearly has a business function and was informed by the Reserve Bank of its policy when the Government announced its decision to establish Medibank Private. 
In selecting its banker the Health Insurance Commission followed normal business practice. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Residential restrictions on the use of health centres in the Australian Capital Territory are imposed by some health centre committees but only in relation to continuing family medicine type practice. This involves after hours and night calls and it is not possible to provide services to patients beyond the local area. 
All health centres treat emergency cases without reference to area of residence. In addition the City Health Centre accepts people from any residential area on a drop in basis. Where a 'drop in' patient is diagnosed as having some ailment requiring continuing care the person is advised that it is in this own interest to obtain a family doctor in his own area. Phillip Health Centre takes patients for continuing family medical care from all areas except those served by another health centre but there is no after hours service available from this Centre. 
I thank the honourable member for Melbourne for the question. I am not aware of the difficulty to which he refers, but I shall certainly convey his concern to the Minister for Social Security. Of course, if there is a shortage of interpreters, this would be a matter of great concern to the Government because the Government is concerned to ensure that the migrant community has interpreter services at all public institutions and facilities. I shall convey to the Minister and to the relevant Department the honourable member's concern about this matter. I thank him for bringing it to our attention. 
As the honourable member for Fremantle indicates, the national trachoma campaign which is currently being conducted in the Northern Territory and in other parts of Australia has been responsible for detecting other illnesses in the course of the survey. The Department of Health is currently investigating the possibility of conducting some follow up program where the team has not been able to give proper and due attention to illnesses that have come to light. I agree that the campaign provides an opportunity actually to screen a great number of people for a variety of illnesses. I hope that it will be possible to ensure that, where other serious illnesses are detected, we are able to give due attention to them at the time the survey is conducted throughout the remote areas of Australia. 
I would also like to indicate at this stage that the trachoma campaign which is now being conducted, I think, in the northern part of the Northern Territory is still receiving assistance from the Department of Defence. It probably has been one of the best organised health programs in the remote areas of Australia and certainly will be responsible for overcoming a lot of the illnesses that presently are afflicting Aborigines and some white people in the remote areas of Australia. 
-I did see the report to which the honourable member has referred but I did not put his connotation upon it. I am equally concerned about the implications the report might have for the Tasmanian economy. May I suggest that the honourable member refer the matter to the Queensland Premier who may be vitally interested in the ascendancy of the peanut. The apple obviously has something on the peanut, that is, it is said that an apple a day keeps the doctor away even though it might not diminish tooth decay. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During 1976, 2 doctors were convicted for offences against Section 103(5) (a) of the National Health Act 1953. 
One doctor from New South Wales was convicted of 2 offences and fined $200 on each offence, in default 1 19 days imprisonment with hard labour on the first count and 92 days imprisonment with hard labour on the second count. The Court also awarded $250 professional costs on each count and $239 witness expenses. 
The second doctor also from New South Wales was convicted of 4 offences. On each of three of the 4 convictions he was fined $200 with court costs of $6 and professional costs of $ 1 5, in default 45 days imprisonment with hard labour. 
On the other charge he was fined $100 with court costs of $6, and professional costs of $15, in default imprisonment for 25 days with hard labour. 
My Department is unaware of whether the doctors concerned were members of the Australian Medical Association or not and if so whether the Association has or could take any action. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The corresponding legislation is: 
the Venereal Diseases Ordinance 1956. 
the Venereal Diseases Ordinance 1 923. 
There is no provision requiring medical practitioners to inform parents in the A.C.T. In the Northern Territory, Section 15 of the Ordinance requires a medical practitioner to give to parents of a child under the age of 1 6 years such directions as may be prescribed by the Chief Medical Officer. 
Yes. 
Amendment of Northern Territory legislation is a matter for the Legislative Assembly in that Territory. I understand that the relevant Ordinance is currently under review. 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights  (Question No. 493) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My Department does not yet have comprehensive data on the membership of health insurance organisations under the new arrangements. Present indications are that it will be at least June before complete details are available. The reasons for the delay are that a number of organisations are having difficulty introducing new program systems or are still striving to overcome backlogs in processing. 

 Mr Douglas Charles Campbell: Contacts with Minister for Primary Industry  (Question No. 810) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Advice from the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet is that the answer to the question is: 
1 ) The Prime Minister wrote to the Premiers on 7 June 1976 and again on 1 October 1976. 
Replies, as shown below, giving a response concerning future legislative or administrative action on the Plan have been received from State Governments: 
New South WaIes-23 June 1976; 29 July 1976; 26 
January 1977; Victoria-21 July 1976; 10 December 1976; Queensland-15 July 1976; SouthAustralia-13July 1976; Tasmania- 1 6 August 1 976. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The exact net cost, after taxation, of abolishing the income test on age pensions is not available. The following full year costs are gross additional costs based on the estimated population and the number of pensioners at the end of June 1 977, and the pension rates applicable from May 1977. 
6969years:$39m. 
68 years: $45m. 
67 years: $S8m. 
66 years: $68m. 
65 years: $89m. 
Although it is not possible to reliably estimate the increase in taxation collections that would result if the income test on age pensions was abolished, the Taxation Office has advised that the additional tax would probably be to the order of about one third of the additional pension outlay. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Prescriptions for oral paediatric tetracyclines dispensed as pharmaceutical benefits since 1970-7 1 were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Specialists in Australia have always as a general rule charged more for similar services than general practitioners. A higher benefit for a referred specialist consultation has been paid since the inception of the Medical Benefits Scheme on 1 July 1953. However, this differential related to consultations only and did not apply to other services carried out by both specialists and general practitioners. 
The customary practice of specialists charging fees generally higher than those charged by general practitioners was recognised by a Commonwealth Committee of Enquiry under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Nimmo. In March 1969 the Nimmo Committee recommended that there be established what were, in fact, the most common fees being charged in each State for all the medical services and procedures provided by medical practitioners and that, wherever appropriate, fees charged by specialists in the practice of their specialty should be ascertained separately from the fees charged by general practitioners. 
The Nimmo Committee recommended, in effect, that differential benefits should be provided where there were differences between the common fees charged by specialists and those charged by general practitioners for the same medical service. 
The Government accepted these recommendations together with the list of Most Common Fees submitted by the A.M.A. in January 1970 as the basis for the reconstruction of the Medical Benefits Scheme as from 1 July 1970. As a result, the 1970 Medical Benefits Schedule contained about 340 items for which differential benefits applied for the same service when rendered by a general practitioner and when performed by a specialist on a referred patient. 
Although a number of the differential items introduced in 1970 have since been removed from the Schedule, the concept of differential fees was endorsed by the Medical Fees Tribunal in 1973 in its determination of fair and reasonable fees for medical benefit purposes. 
The Medibank Review Committee also considered the question of differential rebates during its examination of Medibank but did not suggest any changes. 
The elimination of differential rebates is considered unlikely to contribute to a strengthening of the role of the general practitioner, unless it was done on the basis of raising general practitioner fees to the specialist level. This is the only practical way in which equality could be achieved. 
The elimination of differential rebates by raising general practitioner fees, and benefits, would result in increased expenditure by the Government and the Health Insurance Funds. My Department estimates that the movement of general practitioner fees to the specialist level for procedural services would cost approximately $ 1 1 m in a full year. 
The elimination of differential rebates may be in line with the practices of some overseas countries. However, it would appear undesirable to arbitrarily change the system of differential rebates in the Australian Medical Benefits Scheme when several formal inquiries have ruled out changing the system. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) The following table shows expenditure on the major fringe benefits in each of the last 5 financial years. 
* for medical services received prior to 1 July 1975. t for hospital services received prior to the introduction of Medibank hospital arrangements. Note- The cost of pensioner medical and hospital services for the year 1975-76 is not available. 
and (3) The number of pensioners and beneficiaries eligible for fringe benefits as at the end of each of the last five financial years by category of pension and benefit were as shown in the following table: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Immigration Information Branch of the Australian Information Service prepared the booklet,  The Newcomer and the Law.  The Department of Social Security became responsible for post-arrival services for migrants following the abolition of the former Department of Immigration in 1974 after work on the booklet had begun, and has therefore become nominally responsible for it. The booklet was published by the Australian Government Publishing Service for distribution by the Department of Social Security. 
The booklet was published in May 1976, after some two years in preparation. Difficulties in translating and typesetting a substantial text, including legal terms, into eight foreign languages in three alphabets caused delays in production of the booklet. 
360 000 copies were printed in English and eight other languages at a cost of $49,396, including freight to outlets throughout Australia. 
Distribution began in January 1977 through offices of the Department of Social Security, Foreign language editions of the booklet are issued with a correction slip saying that the information on divorce and matrimonial matters no longer applies and announcing that a separate leaflet on the Family Law Act will be available soon. A slip for the English edition says a separate leaflet giving details of the Family Law Act and how it works is available from the Family Court of Australia in capital cities. 
Distribution of the leaflet by each of the State offices was to a large and varied range of organisations. Distribution generally covered the following organisations: Employer organisations, Trade Unions, Social Security offices, Commonwealth Employment Service offices, police stations. Good Neighbour Councils, ethnic organisations, schools, legal aid, Consulates, State libraries, information and inquiry centres, bank and church migrant services, courts, national groups in the National Groups Directory, Councils of Social Service, voluntary welfare organisations, State and Federal Government Departments. 
By 4 April 1977, 83 500 copies of  The Newcomer and the Law  had been distributed by the Department of Social Security. 
The booklet carries the notice that the information contained in it was the latest available at March I97S. The addresses and phone numbers were correct at that date, but some had changed by the time of distribution. 
When the text of the booklet was completed in June 1974, the Family Law Bill had not been passed by the Australian Parliament. Although it referred briefly to the former divorce laws, the text nevertheless pointed out that the Australian Government had prepared new legislation on divorce and matrimonial matters, which, if approved by the Parliament, would simplify Australia 's divorce laws. 
Later, a correction slip referring to the Family Law Act was printed in nine languages for issue with the booklet. To have changed the text of  The Newcomer and the Law  when the Family Law Bill was passed in mid- 1975 would have caused further delay and cost because of the considerable time required to translate, typeset and check foreign languages. It was decided instead to produce, in co-operation with the Attorney-General 's Department, a separate Family Law leaflet in foreign languages. This is being done. 
As stated on the inside front cover, the information in  The Newcomer and the Law,  prepared by a recognised legal authority, was the latest available at March 1975. The AttorneyGeneral's Department had no comment to make about the text when invited to do so in February 1975. 
8 ) Yes. The fee paid to  Mr Holder  was $345.39. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am not aware of any toxicological investigations recently completed by the United States Food and Drug Administration. The ban on saccharin in the United States and Canada is based on toxicological investigations carried out by the Health Protection Branch of the Canadian Ministry of Health and Welfare. Rats were used as experimental animals in these investigations. 
The Australian Drug Evaluation Committee has not carried out or commissioned any studies on saccharin but has been aware of the animal toxicity studies being conducted overseas. Progress reports on these studies have been considered by the Committee on a number of occasions but no action to restrict the availability of saccharin has been deemed necessary. The Committee is maintaining a watching brief. 
The Food Science and Technology Sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH &amp; MRC), which is responsible for the assessment of food additives in Australia, has examined the Canadian toxicological studies. The Council has subsequently not recommended any change to existing controls. The NH &amp; MRC will, of course, be maintaining its review of saccharin along with other food additives. It should be noted that no cases of human cancer attributable to saccharin have been identified. Saccharin users have no cause for alarm and no further restrictions on saccharin usage in Australia are foreseen. 
The intention to ban saccharin in the United States was based on legislation in that country which requires a food additive to be banned if the development of cancer in experimental animals can be attributed to that substance, irrespective of the level of ingestion. Some relaxation of the ban is now being undertaken by the United States. 
In Australia saccharin is only permitted at specified levels in a limited number of foods. There is, however, no restriction on its availability for use as a sweetener for addition to beverages. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The latest information readily available on the distribution of pensioners, by type of pension, in electoral divisions of the Commonwealth is contained in the publication 'Social Security Pensioners in Postcode Districts and Electoral Divisions, 30 June 1976'. Copies of this publication were sent to all members and senators at the beginning of this year. 
In respect of the electoral division of Calare the position at 30 June 1 976 was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Community Health Program the amounts expended by the States on community health services and facilities in 1975-76, and the amounts allocated to the States for this purpose in 1 976-77, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following is a list of Commonwealth public works arranged by the Department of Construction in the Electoral Divisions of Hughes, Cook and Cunningham which are currently under construction or approved for the financial year 1976-77. Minor works valued at less than $15,000 have not been included. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question.  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) No funds have been provided under the Australian Assistance Plan to organisations centred in the Electorate of Calare. However, the Orana Regional Rehabilitation and Social Welfare Council which is located at Dubbo, in the Electorate of Darling, was provided with the $2,000 Initiating Grant in 1974-7S under the Plan. The once only grant was provided to assist the organisation in meeting some of the costs incurred in the establishment of a Regional Council for Social Development in the Orana Region (Australian Government Region, New South Wales No. 14). Region 14 falls partly within the Calare electorate. Some of the costs incurred in the establishment of a regional council are printing, postage, telephone, travelling expenses, hall hire and seminars. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Pathology Services Working Party, March 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The major programs administered by my Department in the Electoral Division of Perth are: 
1 ) the School Dental Scheme; 
2 ) the Hospitals Development Program; 
the Community Health Program; 
the Home Nursing Service; 
5 ) the Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service; 
Health Program Grants; 
the Drug Education Program; 
8) the Family Planning Program. 
A statement on each program is provided in the following paragraphs. 
. School Dental Scheme 
The aim of the School Dental Scheme is to provide free dental care including health education to all children under 1 5 years of age with initial emphasis on the primary school children. 
Details of the capital expenditure incurred by the Commonwealth Government on the School Dental Clinics in the Electoral Division of Perth in the financial year 1975-76, are as follows: 
-Yes, my attention has been drawn to those reports. The Government has decided to restructure the Hospitals and Health Services Commission.  Dr Sax  will continue to be  Chairman  of that Commission. I have notified the present serving members of their future in regard to their role on that Commission. I have reappointed other members to it. The members of the Commission will be heads of branches within my Department. I will be appointing advisory committees to the Commission in due course. 
-I want to say at the outset that I will not be drawn into any comment upon the mischievous speculation that has been canvassed on certain aspects of the Budget as it might affect the health area. 
But, I give a firm assurance to those associated with private and religious hospitals that the Government will not take any decisions or actions that will disadvantage in any way the private hospitals  vis-a-vis  the public hospitals in this country. The Government recognises and applauds the tremendous role, the excellent role, that they play in caring for the sick. This Government supports private enterprise and certainly in that context we will be supporting the private hospitals and the religious hospitals. I hope that that statement allays their fears and I hope it tends to lessen the amount of correspondence that I am getting on the issue. 
-It needs to be understood, and I am sure that the honourable member for Corio would understand, that the way in which hospitals are conducted in the States is the direct responsibility of the various State Health Commissions or State Departments of Health. There is quite a difference between the ways in which the States conduct their hospitals. I assume that the honourable member is referring to a situation that exists in Victoria and since he has brought the matter to my attention I shall ask officers of my Department to discuss it with officers of the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission to see whether there is any way of ensuring that standard Medibank patients receive the treatment to which they are entitled. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Doctors are free to adopt whatever method of billing they choose for whichever patients they wish. Those doctors who bulk bill are not bound to do so for all their patients nor are they required to continue to do so in respect of those patients for whom they bulk bill. Consequently any information that could be provided in relation to your question, apart from not being comprehensive, may also be misleading in that it may have little relevance to the true picture at any point in time. 
Government Inquiries: North-west Region of Melbourne  (Question No. 718) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The number of persons who are covered for health insurance by Medibank Standard cannot be calculated until it is possible to determine what proportion of the population have opted to be covered by private health insurance. 
As Medibank Private operates on a competitive basis in the private health insurance industry, it could be inimical to its interests to release details of its operations, including membership, in advance of its competitors. 
My Department does not yet have comprehensive data on the membership of private health insurance organizations under the new arrangements. Present indications are that it will be at least June before complete details are available. 
No-see above. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Before 25 November 1976, the means test which applied to age and invalid pensions took account of both income and property. Since that date, income only has been taken into account. The following table shows the various limits, that have applied since 1971, at which a person's or a couple's pension entitlement would be extinguished by other income received, assuming that entitlement would not have been affected by property at any point: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Social Services Act provides that the amount of a fortnightly instalment of pension shall be ascertained by dividing the annual rate by 26. Where the amount of the fortnightly instalment so ascertained is less than $1, it shall be increased to $1. No statistics are held on the numbers of fortnightly pension cheques issued for specific rates. 
At the present rate of pension, a single pensioner, without dependent children, whose income (apart from pension) is between $113.25 a week and the disqualifying limit of $1 14.20 a week is entitled to a pension of $1 a fortnight. Similarly a married pensioner couple, without dependent children, whose combined income (apart from pension) is between $189.60 a week and the disqualifying limit of $191.50 a week are entitled to receive a pension of $1 a fortnight each.. 
As stated in ( 1 ), no statistics are held on numbers of pension cheques issued for specific amounts. However, prior to the recent pension increase on 12 May 1 977 it is estimated that 1 120 pension cheques valued at $5 or less were issued each fortnight. Following that date it is estimated that there are 80 such cheques. 
The Government has of course maintained the funding of women's refuges on a 100 per cent basis in the States through the community health program. The Minister for Social Security and I have been having discussions on ways of funding women's refuges for 1977-78. Those discussions are still going on, but I cannot pre-empt the considerations of the Government with respect to the Budget that it will bring down later this year. The Prime Minister has written to the Premier of Queensland indicating that the Government wishes to continue the funding of 2 women's refuges in Queensland which the Queensland Government has not been prepared to fund out of the resources of the community health program. The Government generally feels that there is a need for refuges for women who are in distress. Some of them may not be run terribly well but we are looking at the way in which they are being conducted in Queensland and the other States since we are committed to a 100 per cent funding of them. I cannot give any guarantee as to the level of funding for 1977-78. 
The honourable member shows an incredible knowledge of detail of the medical schedule book. I am afraid that I do not know to which service he refers. I have not programmed my computer. I shall go into the matter in more detail so that I can identify the service and give him further information later in the day. As for service 8530, 1 would not have a ruddy clue what that is. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is provided in the following table. The information is current as at 5 May 1977. 
I think I should make it clear that yesterday in reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Maribyrnong I mentioned that the funding of women's refuges under the community health program was at a rate of 100 per cent. That was true for 1974-75. 
What I did not say was that for 1976-77, under the block funding arrangements that we have entered into with the States, women's refuges have been funded under the same arrangements as are other projects under that program. In other words, they are funded for 75 per cent of their capital cost and 90 per cent of their recurrent costs. 
There are about 20 women's refuges throughout the Commonwealth. As I said yesterday, the Minister for Social Security and I have had discussions about the funding of women's refuges in the future. I am not yet able to give any firm indication of what decisions may emerge, particularly as to the financial aspects of the question, because it does have some Budget implications for 1977-78. 
That, of course, remains to be seen. The Prime Minister has indicated a desire that the 2 refuges in Queensland should be funded and maintained. There have been some adverse reports about the operation of refuges. We are checking out those reports to see whether the refuges are being properly conducted. 
I think it is essential to understand that there is difference between a women's refuge and women's health centre. They are 2 entirely different places. A refuge is not established for health purposes. It is a place which was set up by the former Government under the terms of the community health program to provide some refuge to women who had been deserted or bashed by their husbands and who had to seek refuge for a short period. For that reason the refuges have an essential purpose and use in the community. 
I thank the honourable member for Fremantle for the opportunity to put the record straight concerning the Queensland situation. I saw the reports earlier in the week and they were quite untrue. As a consequence of the misstatement that there was friction between officers of my Department and the Queensland officials, the Acting Director-General of my Department wrote a letter to the  Age  to put the record straight. Queensland officers have been most co-operative in the provision of information which is required to enable the smooth functioning of the national trachoma program in that State. The Aboriginal community councils concerned have a uniform policy which ensures that any medical or related activity must be of recognisable benefit to a community and the individuals in it before permission is granted for the activity to proceed. This is an established principle in Queensland among Aboriginal communities. 
Relevant information must be supplied to the communities concerned to enable them to evaluate the true worth of any program. Discussions concerning the best method of providing and disseminating this information are proceeding between State officers and those of my Department. I make it clear that there has been nothing untoward about the negotiations and discussions which have taken place. In relation to a misunderstanding on the part of Queensland officials about the research program, I still have not been able to ascertain whether they have misunderstood the purpose of the trachoma campaign. Quite clearly there is every co-operation between the Departments. But we have to observe the rules which are being applied by the Queensland Aboriginal communities. We are positive that we will get their full co-operation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will be aware of the importance attached by both the Government and the community to the need for restraint on the burgeoning medical benefits expenditure on pathology services. This is a problem all over the world, but the increase in Australia in recent years has been out of all proportion to the growth in the cost of other medical services. By way of illustration, for the half year ended December 1974 the medical benefits expenditure for pathology services was $22m whilst for the half year ended 1976 it had risen to $53m. 
The Government is determined that medical benefits expenditure on pathology services will be restrained. Accordingly it has accepted and acted upon proposals submitted by the pathology services working party, the final report of which was tabled on25 May 1977. 
The principles inherent in the Bill have been worked out carefully over a period of 13 months by the pathology services working party. The working party is constituted by persons nominated by the Australian Medical Association, the Royal College of Pathologists of Australia, the Society of Pathologists in Private Practice, and the New South Wales Health Commission, apart from officers of my Department. The working party's report has the support of these professional bodies. I am confident that the government's actions, with the support of the profession and the community, will reduce the mounting costs of medical benefits for pathology services within the bounds of the proper practice of medicine. 
Before becoming involved in the details of the Bill, I wish to emphasise that the working party has recommended that a new schedule of pathology services and fees for medical benefits purposes will replace the existing schedule. The existing schedule is totally out of date, and the Government has accepted this new schedule. The new schedule is set out in appendix A to the working party's report. It will be introduced by regulations to operate at the same time as the revised pathology benefit arrangements covered by this Bill come into operation. The new schedule will maintain the current two-tiered levels of benefits. However, the present three item rule for multiple services will be replaced by in-built multiple service rules in the items, where appropriate. The Bill deletes the current provisions in the Act relating to the three item multiple services rule. New section 4b introduced by clause 4 of the Bill before the House, enables the new inbuilt multiple services rule to operate. 
Clause 4 also introduces a new section 4a. This provision enables interim variations to be made to pathology services set out in the schedule. At present the schedule is updated twice each year by regulations promulgated under section 4. This method is not sufficiently flexible to cope with technical breakthroughs which almost overnight can and do substantially alter the costs of pathology services. Accordingly the Bill provides for the Medical Benefits Advisory Committee, following a reference to it by the Minister, to investigate existing or proposed pathology services and recommend whether they should be varied or included in the schedule and, if so, the level of fees applicable. The Minister may issue a determination specifying the new service and fee which will apply for medical benefits purposes for a period of six months. Within this time action will be taken to formally include the particular procedure in schedule 1. The Bill provides for the Minister's determination to be tabled in Parliament and to be subject to disallowance on the same basis as a regulation. This arrangement will provide the necessary flexibility to adapt to technical changes while providing time to include new services in the schedule as part of the regular updating machinery. 
I am sure honourable members will readily appreciate that where pathology services are rendered by a practitioner as a result of a request by another practitioner, the initiative for the rendering of unnecessary pathology services lies with the requesting practitioner. The existing legislation does not formalise, in any way, the manner in which requests must be made. The working party has recommended and the Government has accepted that requesting practitioners should be accountable for the payment of medical benefits following the rendering of services requested by them. This decision complements the approved pathology practitioner arrangements. I will spell out the details shortly. 
Accordingly, clause 6 of the Bill inserts a new section 16a. The new section provides that a medical benefit is not payable in respect of a pathology service unless the service was, firstly, determined by a practitioner to be necessary; secondly, with one exception to which I will refer shortly, was rendered by or on behalf of an approved pathology practitioner; and finally, when rendered as a result of a request, the practitioner made the request in writing. The precise details that will be required to be included in the request will be set out in regulations, but in general will be: name and address of the patient's doctor and the practitioner requested to perform the service; the date of the request; the name and address of the patient; and the pathology services to be rendered by the approved pathology practitioner. I should emphasise that the written request which each requesting practitioner must use and complete will not be a standard form. The form of the request will be up to the individual practitioner. The only requirements are that it must be in writing, signed personally by the practitioner, and include such details as I have just specified. 
It is recognised that in some circumstances verbal requests for urgent pathology services are essential. The Bill acknowledges the necessity for this practice with the proviso that before medical benefits can be paid for verbal requests they have to be confirmed in writing. All written requests are to be held by the approved pathology practitioner rendering the service for a period of 1 8 months after the date on which the service was rendered and should the Minister so direct must be produced for examination by departmental officers. In view of the importance of the requests as source documents for investigations into the possible initiating and rendering of excessive pathology services, failure to hold the request for the specified period has been made an offence. 
New section 16A also provides that for a medical benefit to be payable, there shall be recorded on an account, receipt or bulk-billing assignment form, prescribed details in respect of the pathology service. Where services are rendered as a result of a request, these details will be similar to those I have already mentioned in respect of the written request. Where the service does not involve a request, that is, where an approved pathology practitioner both determines the necessity for and renders the service himself, the essential details will include the name of the doctor rendering the service, the date the service was determined to be necessary and the pathology services rendered. 
I mentioned earlier that there was an exception to the general rule that medical benefits would not be payable where pathology services were rendered by other than an approved pathology practitioner. Medical practitioners will still be able to provide 17 specified simple basic diagnostic pathology services for their own patients or patients of their own practice without becoming approved pathology practitioners. These tests are listed in division 9 of appendix A to the report of the pathology services working party. They are the 17 tests that were listed by the joint pathology working party on accreditation as being tests for which accreditation would not be required. The Government has accepted the working party's proposal that certain of these tests, namely haemoglobin estimation, determination of erythrocyte sedimentation rate and microscopical examination of urine concentrate which are currently not eligible for medical benefits unless referred will be eligible in future, even when not referred. This will recognise the importance of doctors being able to carry out certain important simple basic diagnostic pathology tests on their own patients, without having to wait for results from a pathologist. In addition to the new provisions concerning the payment of medical benefits for pathology services, clause 6 of the Bill also provides for the giving and acceptance of undertakings. New section 16B provides for the Minister for Health to draw up common forms of undertaking to be given by persons wishing to become approved pathology practitioners. Provision has been made in the Bill for the form to be varied by the Minister for Health only where the variation has been agreed by the Medical Benefits Advisory Committee. 
In essence the undertaking will require persons wishing to become approved to agree to provide pathology services in accordance with a code of conduct which is based on the code of conduct in the report of the joint pathology working party on accreditation. The code of conduct will cover such matters as the sharing of fees and benefits, the offering of incentives for the requesting of pathology services, billing practices of the approved person and controls on advertising to stimulate the ordering of pathology services. Persons eligible to give an undertaking are defined in new section 16C of the Bill. These are medical practitioners, persons employing medical practitioners, a State or State and Territory authority specified in writing by the Minister and a very small number of persons, who have for some years provided pathology services in country areas at the request of medical practitioners. Provision has also been made for the Commonwealth to be deemed to be an approved pathology practitioner. This means that Parliament approves the Commonwealth as an approved pathology practitioner rather than my giving and accepting an undertaking on behalf of the Commonwealth. However, the Commonwealth will, of course, abide by the code of conduct and other matters to which approved pathology practitioners are bound by their undertakings and will conform with relevant provisions of the Bill. 
The Government has given careful consideration to the arguments put forward by the working party that for pathology services bulk-billing should be limited to those services provided to eligible pensioners and their dependants and not allowed for other patients of Medibank. The Government has also given full regard to the wishes of segments of the population that this restriction not be introduced. The Government has accepted on balance the views put forward by the working party, for 2 reasons. The first is that there is often not the contact between the patient and the pathologist, which allows the patient to sign the bulk-billing form. Moreover, few patients are able to sign, as they are supposed to do, the bulk-billing form after the pathology services have been performed, and certify that the services itemised on the claim form have been performed. The second is that there is a substantial correlation between the provision of large patient profiles or health screens, largely consisting of pathology services and bulk-billing. In many cases there is no indication that the patient is not well and these large profiles or screens are fostered only in a situation where the patient has nothing or little to pay. Such profiles and screens with benefits in each instance in excess of $75 were responsible for some 25 per cent of the total medical benefits expenditure on pathology services in September last. The figure in New South Wales, for instance, where this practice is more common, was nearly 40 per cent. 
I wish to point out to honourable members that bulk-billing for services other than pathology services remains untouched by these changes. The question of whether there should be any changes in respect of bulk-billing for medical services other than pathology services will be considered when the Government receives a report which I have requested from my Department. At present the Health Insurance Act provides for the establishment of medical services committees of inquiry, consisting of 5 medical practitioners, whose function it is to inquire into references to them by the Minister concerning the possible rendering of excessive professional services which attract medical benefits payable by Medibank. These functions are being extended to enable the committees to also investigate the rendering of excessive services which attract medical benefits payable by private medical benefit organisations registered under the National Health Act. 
The Government is conscious that breaches of pathology undertakings are also professional matters. It is therefore appropriate and just that determinations concerning breaches of pathology undertakings should be the result of consideration by a group of professional colleagues with expert knowledge of the field involved. Accordingly, provision has been made in clause 27 of the BUI to expand the functions of the medical services committees of inquiry to authorise the committees to inquire into matters arising out of pathology undertakings. 
If, following an investigation, a committee considers that an undertaking should not be accepted or the undertaking has been breached, then it may, by virtue of the amendments made in clause 32, recommend to the Minister an appropriate course of action including reprimands, withholding benefits or requiring the payment of medical benefits for pathology services in respect of which the practitioner has failed to comply with the undertaking or revocation of the Minister's acceptance of the undertaking. At this point, the existing provisions of the Health Insurance Act will apply. Therefore the Minister may give effect to the recommendation by issuing a determination against which the practitioner may appeal. 
The investigating of requests for excessive pathology services is again considered to be a matter that should appropriately be handled by the medical services committees of inquiry. Accordingly, in clause 27, the Bill confers a further new function on these committees by providing for the existing powers, functions and procedures of the medical services committees of inquiry to be extended to conduct investigations into excessive requesting of pathology services. Should the committee consider that excessive services have been requested, provision is also made in clause 32 of the Bill for the committees to recommend the reprimanding of the practitioner concerned or the withholding of, or payment by the practitioner of, an amount equal to the amount of benefits, or a specified part of the benefits, applicable to the services considered by the committee as being excessive. 
The Government is confident that the adoption of this system of review provides the fairest mechanism for enforcing the approved pathology practitioner scheme. However, it recognises that as determinations of the Minister concerning breaches of undertakings vitally affect the livelihood of those practitioners, there may well be an argument that an appeal against such a determination should be heard by a court and not by a review tribunal. Accordingly the Bill provides in these circumstances for a choice of appeal against a determination of the Minister, following a recommendation of a committee of inquiry, to either a medical services review tribunal or to a prescribed court as defined in clause 38- new section 107- of the Bill. The new functions of medical services committees of inquiry will also apply to the rendering of services under pathology undertakings and the requesting of pathology services which attract medical benefits payable by either Medibank or private medical benefit organisations registered under the National Health Act. 
Honourable members will be aware that for the purpose of payment by Medibank of medical benefits for optometrical consultations, the National Health Insurance Act currently provides for a participating optometrists scheme, based on undertakings given by optometrists. The extension of the functions of an optometrical services committee of inquiry to consider optometrical consultations attracting medical benefits payable by registered medical benefits organisations, has been provided in clause 35 of the Bill. The alternative of appeal to a court concerning undertakings rather than to a review tribunal should apply equally to the participating optometrist arrangements as it will to pathologists, and the Bill therefore provides accordingly. 
The opportunity has been taken in the Bill to deal with 2 matters, unrelated to pathology, associated with the establishment and operation of committees and tribunals. The first of these is the discretion currently included in Health Insurance Act for the Minister to consult with professional colleges and organisations other than the Australian Medical Association in choice of members to be appointed to certain committees and tribunals established under that legislation. In practice this descretion has not been used, since the government recognises the AMA as the most appropriate body to represent the medical profession in consultations with the Government. Accordingly the Bill provides that the AMA is to be the sole body consulted by the Minister in the choosing of members for appointments to appropriate committees and tribunals established under the Act. Secondly, the Health Insurance Act at present contains common provisions which apply to both medical and optometrical services review tribunals. Provision has accordingly been made in clause 38 of the Bill to amalgamate these provisions, thus considerably simplifying the structure of the legislation. 
During its investigations, the working party became aware of certain practices in which considerations are offered to induce practitioners to initiate or provide unnecessary pathology services. Provision has therefore been made in clause 50 of the Bill- new section 129AA- for the creation of a specific offence to prohibit persons from seeking or offering a payment or consideration for the requesting or providing of pathology services attracting medical benefits, other than in the ordinary course of proper professional practice. In order to determine whether an offence has been committed, provision has been made in the Bill for a person authorised by the Minister to enter premises, either with the consent of the occupier of the premises or on authority of a warrant issued by a magistrate, to search for and inspect and take copies of documents. I emphasise that a warrant would be issued only where a magistrate is satisfied by information on oath that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there is on the premises evidence as to the commission of an offence. This offence relates to pathology services which attract either Medibank medical benefits or medical benefits payable by registered health insurance organisations. The Government considers that the combination of this offence, together with disciplinary action through the medical service committees of inquiry, will considerably reduce the incidence of unnecessary or extravagant use of pathology services. 
The Bill also provides for increased penalties to apply in relation to offences under section 129 of the Act. The existing level of penalties for these offences, which relate to false statements or the submission of false information in connection with payments under the Health Insurance Act, have been found to be inadequate. The Bill also provides for the increased penalties under existing section 129, together with the new offence introduced by new section 129aa, to be made indictable, the maximum level of penalties relating to each provision to be set at a fine of $ 10,000 or 5 years' imprisonment. The Government is conscious that the severity of the offences will vary and, accordingly, provision has been made in the Bill that by agreement between the prosecution and the defence, and subject to the court being satisfied that it is proper to do so, less serious offences can be dealt with summarily by a lower court, in which case the maximum penalty will be $500 or 6 months ' imprisonment. 
Further matters included in the Bill relate to health program grants. Provision has been made in clauses 13 to 18 to broaden the scope and purpose for which health program grants may be given. At present the Health Insurance Act permits health program grants to cover only the cost of the approved health service given by an organisation, including associated management expenses. The Government considers the situation is unduly restrictive and accordingly the Bill provides for 2 additional measures to increase the scope and impact of the health program grants arrangements. 
The first measure is designed to further facilitate the establishment of health maintenance organizations. Standard Medibank contributors will be able to join such an organisation when established simply by registering with it. They will then be able to avail themselves of the health services provided in the same way as members who pay their contributions to the health maintenance organisation. Where any members, whether Standard Medibank contributors or members paying contributions, need to obtain medical services elsewhere, the organisation will pay medical benefits for those services. For Standard Medibank members, the organisations will be reimbursed by way of health program grants. The second and perhaps the most important innovation is to authorise the payment of health program grants to enable the development and evaluation of new, improved health care delivery systems. This has been too long neglected and the funding of projects aimed at introducing and evaluating methods of steamlining existing practices and developing innovative alternatives will significantly increase the effectiveness of health program grants. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The testing of eyesight and hearing of school children is conducted in conjunction with school health programs in the States and Territories. Local offices of the National Acoustic Laboratories co-operate in hearing screening programs and provide technical advice as required. Children referred to the National Acoustic Laboratories are assessed and provided with hearing aids when necessary. These aids are provided free of charge. 
Yes. 
No. 
5 ) It is recognised that preventive health measures may in many circumstances offer the most cost-effective means of improving the health of the community, and a number of programs administered by my Department are oriented towards prevention. School health programs in the States are a State government responsibility and the adequacy of such programs is primarily a matter for consideration by the State authorities. The effectiveness of the school health program in the A.C.T. is monitored by the Capital Territory Health Commission, while in the Northern Territory school health services are incorporated in the family-centred community health service. 
Australian Broadcasting Commission:  Power Without Glory  (Question No. SS2) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It has not been possible to quantify the increase in gross incomes of medical practitioners from available records. A comparison of Taxation Statistics for the income years 1974-75 and 1975-76 would provide an indication of the change. Income tax statistics that include information for the 1974-75 and 1975-76 income years in respect of medical practitioners are expected to be included in the supplements to the Report of the Commissioner of Taxation, Taxation Statistics 1975-76 and Taxation Statistics 1976-77. The former is expected to be tabled in Parliament later this year and the latter in 1978. 
However, medical practitioners' gross incomes have increased since the introduction of Medibank on 1 July 1975. The increases are related to: 
increases in fees for medical benefit purposes. Increases in fees were implemented on 1 January 1976 and 1 January 1977, following the determination of an independent inquiry in 1975 and by agreement with the Australian Medical Association in 1 976. The increases in Medical Benefits Schedule fees from 1 July 1975 to 1 January 1977 were 24.3 per cent overall; 
the introduction, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria, of sessional or modified-fee-for-service systems of payment to medical practitioners for services to standard ward patients in recognised hospitals, for those services previously rendered in an honorary capacity; 
payment of medical benefits for the whole range of medical services for services to persons previously covered by the Pensioner Medical Service. The Pensioner Medical Service Scheme provided for payments to participating medical practitioners for general practitioner consultation only; and 
an increase in the coverage of the population. Persons who had not previously taken out health insurance with private medical benefits funds were covered, from I July 1975, to the extent of medical benefits for medical services. 
From information available to my Department the answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) Canada, France, New Zealand, Belgium and Japan have broadly similar rebate systems. 
Canada, France, New Zealand and Belgium provide a higher specialist rebate when a service can be performed by either a G.P. or a specialist. 
3 ) No other country is known to have a $5 gap provision. 
Canada, France. Germany, Netherlands, Japan, Belgium, Denmark, Norway, Finland and New Zealand have a percentage of common fee rebate for specialist services. 
I do not have at my disposal all the details about the matter to which the honourable member refers. I shall therefore refer the substance of his question to my colleague, the Minister for Social Security, in the course of the afternoon. However, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a Press statement and also a determination that was made by  Mr Daniels,  the Director-General of Social Security on 27 May 1977, which may be of interest to honourable members. 
-The Government already makes a significant contribution towards assisting families to cope with the child rearing functions. It is worth noting that the family allowances this financial year were significantly increased in the last Budget and are expected to cost $ 1,032m. In June 1976, there were 3 997 148 children under the age of 16 years in 1 935 596 families receiving allowances. Expenditure on family allowances in 1976 totalled $244m. In regard to the children's services program, the Commonwealth has appropriated $73. 3m for the current financial year for expenditure on children's services. Of this amount, approximately $48m has gone towards the recurrent costs of pre-school education. This is a service which benefits children from approximately 3 years to 5 years of age. Most of the balance is spent on a range of services of a nature designed to support the family and in particular to give expression to the Government's wish to give child care to needy families where the children otherwise would be without care of any kind. A number of research studies have been funded in previous years under the children's services program, some of them relating to psycho-social development of children. As the study reports are completed and received by the Government consideration is given to the means by which the information may be made publicly available. With respect to the other aspects of the question asked by the honourable member, I shall be pleased to convey the substance of them to the Minister for Social Security so that she will be fully informed on the issues that are concerning the honourable gentlemen. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Chiropractic, Osteopathy, Homoeopathy and Naturopathy, April 1977. 
I thank the honourable member for Maribyrnong for the question. Computerised axial tomography, or CAT scanning, is an innovation in the area of diagnostic services extended by the medical profession. I understand that substantial orders have been placed for CAT scanners. As a consequence, to try to overcome some of the likelihood of excessive scanning of patients which could also cause some excessive radiation, I have asked my Department to prepare for me a report on terms of reference for a working party to inquire into this activity in Australia. Neither the Government, the community nor I would like to see, the degree of abuse take place in this part of diagnostic medicine in Australia which we have seen in pathology. 
The Opposition has sought to make the Karen Green case a major political issue, so far without any real success. Notwithstanding the High Court's decision and the determination made by the Director-General of Social Security in his own right, the Opposition has failed to make a credible case. I hope to prove the basis for that statement. In spite of a series of questions in the other chamber and several in the House of Representatives and the discussion of this matter as a matter of public importance in both chambers, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and members of the Opposition persist in their attempts to make the matter an emotive political issue. If it were an Opposition other than the present Opposition involved there may have been some sense in pursuing this course for political motives. But the Opposition has failed because of the Whitlam Government's record in regard to employment. It was so appalling. Nobody really believes what the Opposition says. Indeed, the Whitlam Government's irresponsible attitude to the payment of the unemployment benefit was to its public discredit. Once again the House has to be reminded of the Whitlam Government's unemployment record. Inheriting an unemployment rate of 2.4 per cent of the work force m December 1972, that rate had reached 5.4 per cent of the work force in December 1975. 
The honourable member for Melbourne does not like the truth. Unemployment trebled under the Labor Government; it has not trebled under our government. The number of unemployed persons under 21 years of age doubled. What a record! The Labor Government's shocking record during its term of office leaves the Opposition in no position to seek to capitalise on Karen Green's unemployment She had not taken appropriate steps to be eligible for benefits. 
Let us get the issue into perspective. Refusing the unemployment benefit automatically to school leavers was a matter of policy. We do not retract from that policy. That was announced by the Government last year following the release of a working committee's report on the unemployment benefit. That working party was set up while the Opposition was in government because it was concerned about many matters associated with eligibility for the unemployment benefit. Many Ministers of the former Government publicly stressed their concern about the meeting of the eligibility requirements by those who were at that time being paid the unemployment benefit. The present Government addressed itself to the need to postpone the payment of the unemployment benefit in cases where a person voluntarily left his job. It also addressed itself to the matter of whether the unemployment benefit should be automatically payable to a person immediately on leaving school or whether, in terms of the Social Services Act, reasonable steps should have to have been taken by that person to obtain employment before becoming eligible for the unemployment benefit. 
The policy of the Government with regard to school leavers was announced early last year- in fact on 23 March last year. It was stated at that time that in the past many school leaver claimants who said they were not going back to school had been paid the unemployment benefit and for one reason or another they had returned to school. Of course some claimed the benefit without any intention of being dishonest and had later gone back to school. It is apparent, however, that there were others who merely sought the benefit for the holiday period knowing that they would be returning to their studies. This meant that they were receiving a benefit to which they would not otherwise have been entitled. It was said then in relation to school leavers that if the applicant demonstrated hardship as a result of non-payment of the unemployment benefit during the periods mentioned sympathetic consideration would be given to the case and the payment of a special benefit would be made in appropriate cases. 
It was said that a special benefit would be paid in cases where need was demonstrated. That is the difference between this Government and the Government that was in office previously. We turn our attention to people who have a demonstrated need. We attempt to assist the needy sections of the community. It was said that we would definitely use the special benefit in appropriate cases. Under section 124 of the Social Services Act the Director-General of Social Security has a discretion to make a special benefit payment where because of age, physical or mental disability, or domestic circumstances, or for any other reason a person is unable to earn sufficient livelihood for himself or his dependants, if any. The rate of the special benefit is equivalent to the rate of the unemployment benefit. 

 Mr Justice Stephen made 2 draft declarations on the day on which he made the draft declarations final. In response to submissions as to the form of his declaration on 22 April 1977  Mr Justice  Stephen said in court, more or less: 'It is not for me, in the declaration, to tell the DirectorGeneral what he might have regard to. The Director-General should have responded to the claim by making all such investigations, if any, as he then might have thought necessary. Whether he should have inquired of her more than she disclosed is a matter for the Director-General. It is then up to the Director-General to investigate as he thinks fit and I will not define what he thinks. I cannot go any further. He should be entirely at large and I regard the Act as conferring jurisdiction upon him to make such investigations as he thinks fit. It seems to be, if there is one vital factor, such as making of efforts to obtain employment by the plaintiff, as to which the plaintiff may notify to the Director-General, as that might be regarded by the Director-General as vital, the Director-General would regard that as something appropriate for investigations to the extent of asking the claimant: "Have you made any employment applications?" I am inclined to the view that that is something he might think fit'. In view of that legal point I really cannot understand why the Opposition should initiate a discussion on the Government's defiance of the law. Where is the defiance of the law? 
His Honour handed down a judgment recognising that the Director-General has the right under the Act- it is to be found in section 107 of the Act- to make a determination in respect to specific cases for the application of unemployment benefit. So nobody can claim for one minute that the Government has acted  ultra vires  the Act or  ultra vires  the judgment. I would like to take the opportunity of having incorporated in  Hansard,  with the leave of the Opposition, the declaration of  Mr Justice  Stephen at that time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are nine (9) approved nursing homes (all approved under the National Health Act) in the Municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick- viz.: 
Broadmeadows 
Glenlyn, 33 Finchley Avenue, Glenroy. 
Glenroy, 85-87 Chapman Avenue, Glenroy. 
Coburg 
St Linus, 22 Delta Avenue, Merlynston. 
Kulki, 14 The Grove, Moreland. 
Glenora, 15 Shaftsbury Street, Coburg. 
Merlynston, 1050 Sydney Road, North Coburg. 
Emily Lenny, 46 Victoria Street, Coburg. 
Brunswick 
Kanella, 35 Mitchell Street, East Brunswick. 
Blyth-Lea, 62 Blythe Avenue, Brunswick. 
(a) The following names, provided as the registered owners of the nursing homes, are those of the organisations or persons owning or conducting the nursing home undertakings. These organisations or persons may not own the premises. The addresses maintained by my Department are those of the nursing homes and are as shown in ( 1 ) above. 
Glenlyn- Sister C. Dargan 
Glenroy- M. and N. Stojanovic; M. and N. Perac 
St Linus- Sister Nugent 
Kulki-Wesley Central Mission 
Glenora-Sister D. Bolger 
Merlynston- I. L. Coxall and Bik Young Ding 
Emily Lenny- I. K. and E. L. Davies 
Kanella-Sisterand C. B. Black 
Blyth-Lea- C. Maya 
The names of the medical practitioners who regularly attend each home are not available to my Department as the Commonwealth is not involved in the services and consequently does not record such information. 
and (4) The number of approved beds and the weekly charges at each home are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)  Mr John  Gillroy, then Executive Director of the National Standing Committee of Nursing Homes, in a letter to me dated 8 March 1977 wrote as follows-" From our observations of the deficit funded nursing homes it would appear that only a very small minority of nursing home beds in those organisations are made available to pension only' patients . . . " I do not know whether those allegations are true or not; to undertake a check would require extensive use of departmental resources which I would not commit for such a purpose. 
However a Central Working Party of the Australian Affiliation of Voluntary Care Associations was established to review the operations of deficit financed nursing homes and as part of that review considered admission policy. It reported to me during February, 1977 that priority of admission to deficit financed nursing homes should be on assessed total need without regard to the individual's capacity to cover the cost of the facilties and services provided. 
In view of the objectives of the religious and charitable organisations and the nature of the deficit financing arrangements I consider that this policy would be applied in general notwithstanding that some organisations express priority responsibility towards particular sectional groups. 
The Working Party also reported  to  me that those persons with the financial capacity to cover the cost of necessary care should be charged with the responsibility of meeting same. It recommended that patients with the ability to pay should contribute more than the statutory fee and should be able to receive nursing home benefits from their hospital benefits fund. This recommendation is closely allied to recommendations in the Report of the Committee on Care of the Aged and the Infirm that the Government is examining. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of patients treated free of charge in State public hospitals since each State signed hospital agreements was 1 708 900 up to 3 1 March 1 977 as under 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
) and (2) Statistics of family allowances by local government areas are not available. However, selected information on family allowances by postcode districts is collected by the Department. The following table shows the numbers of families receiving family allowances, and the age groups of children in receipt of such allowances in certain postcode districts at 21 March 1977. The postcode districts selected are those which are either wholly, or whose major part is in the local government areas menuoned. 
Tables which cross-classify ages of children by size of family and the sex of recipients of family allowances are not available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Under existing quarantine arrangements pigs from New Zealand are only allowed entry into Australia if rigorous quarantine certification requirements are satisfied. These include inter alia: 
a declaration by the owner that: the animal has been in New Zealand during the whole period of 6 months next preceding the date of shipment, and during this period the animal has been free  from  disease and has not been in contact with any animal suffering from disease. 
a certificate by a Government veterinary surgeon certifying that: the animal was apparently free from disease, after inquiry he is satisfied with the truth of the owner declaration, and 
Aujeszky 's disease is not known to exist in New Zealand. 
If all certification is in order the animal is released under quarantine surveillance on its arrival in Australia. The animal remains under quarantine surveillance for its entire period of residence in Australia. 
With the discovery of Aujeszky's disease in New Zealand the quarantine certification requirements referred to above could no longer be satisfied and the importation of pigs from New Zealand ceased. A change in quarantine procedures was not required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 )-(4)  Some of the information sought by the honourable member  is  presently available. However, additional information concerning  in  particular, the provincial and rural areas  is  being sought from the States. On receipt of this information a detailed reply will be made to the honourable member's question. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
and (2) The benefit payable to an unmarried person who is under 21 years of age and at least one of whose parents is residing in Australia is reduced by the amount by which the income of that person exceeds $3 a week. In any other case benefit is reduced by the amount by which the income of that person and his spouse, if married, exceeds $6 a week. 
The rate of benefit is extinguished where income reaches or exceeds the following amounts: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Records are not maintained to show the breakdown by electoral divisions of expenditure under major programs of the Department of Social Security. 
Whilst the information sought is accessible for some programs involving relatively small numbers of grants and total expenditures, its compilation for all major programs would involve a detailed analysis of expenditure vouchers and other records for which staff resources are not at present available. 
Moreover, for many programs, figures supplied on the basis of electoral boundaries would be misleading if taken to indicate the extent to which facilities are provided for residents of an electoral division. Particularly in the case of urban electorates, homes, hostels, centres and the like serve a population drawn from areas extending beyond the electoral boundaries. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Statistics of pensioners and beneficiaries by local government areas are not available. However, selected information on most types of pensions and benefits is collected by postcode districts. The following table shows the number of age, invalid and widow pensioners, and recipients of supporting mother's benefit in certain postcode districts as at 21 March 1977. The postcode districts selected are those which are either wholly, or whose major part is in the local government areas mentioned. 
The information relating to unemployment beneficiaries refers to the number current on 25 February 1977. 
The following types of benefits are not available by postcode districts: Sickness and special benefits, handicapped child's allowances, double orphans' pensions, maternity allowances and funeral benefits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I informed the House some time ago that a committee had been set up by the Health Insurance Commission to examine what additional benefits Medibank Private might be able to offer its contributors after experience of operation by the fund. As the honourable member knows, I have not at any time intervened or interfered with Medibank Private. I have preferred to allow it to operate in complete competition with other private funds in the field of health insurance. In due course the General Manager of the Health Insurance Commission will be making a public announcement of the result of its inquiries and deliberations in relation to additional benefits which will be available from, I think, 1 July of the next financial year. It could well be that Medibank Private will be in a position to offer a much greater range of benefits to its contributors for the premium which they are now paying. 
The levy payers will still receive the benefits that they are receiving at the present time, that is, 85 per cent of the medical benefits and also full cover for hospital accommodation and medical services in hospitals in standard wards, but not paramedical services. 
in reply- In closing the debate I would very much like to thank those honourable members who have spoken for the constructive contributions they have made. I say that sincerely because all honourable members have approached this Bill, as they have approached most legislation relating to health, in a constructive and sensible manner. I particularly thank the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  and those members of the health and welfare committees on both sides of the House who have no doubt given due attention to the legislation. The honourable member for Prospect made a point with which I do not disagree when he said that Medibank in itself was not the cause of rip-offs in the medical area- undoubtedly rip-offs were going on before Medibank was introduced- but Medibank may in some way have accentuated or accelerated the degree of rip-offs. What the Health Insurance Commission has been able to do is establish at least to some degree the extent of the rip-offs taking place. We as a result have some mechanism with which to come to grips with the problem. Quite frankly, the Australian community has every reason to be concerned with the extent of the increase in expenditure that is taking place in the health field. 
Debates in this place in the last decade and debates outside the Parliament on health, as the honourable member for Maribyrnong said, have generally been on how we can help people pay their ever-rising health care bills. I was disturbed the other day to see some figures which the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  produced showing that health care costs in this country over the last 3 or 4 years had increased at the rate of 9 per cent in real money terms. That must be a disturbing picture to any economist or anybody interested in health administration. Associated with this rapid increase in costs have been abuses. There has been over-use of medical services and rip-offs. The pathology area was one which was brought to our attention by the Medibank Review Committee last year and, as honourable members have acknowledged, as a result we set up the pathology working party. Its recommendations were designed to come to grips with this real problem. One of the pleasing aspects of the whole exercise has been the degree to which the professional bodies in the medical profession have co-operated with the Government and the community in helping to arrive at a rational approach to stemming the degree of abuse in the pathology area. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong and the honourable member for Prospect questioned whether the abolition of bulk billing for all but pensioners and their dependants would reduce the level of abuse in the area. We have no hard evidence at this stage to suggest this but the indications following the examination of a number of sample cases were that there was a link between the degree of abuse and bulk billing. I said in my second reading speech:  . . . there is a substantial correlation between the provision of large patient profiles or health screens, largely consisting of pathology services and bulk-billing. In many cases there is no indication that the patient is not well and these large profiles or screens are fostered only in a situation where the patient has nothing or little to pay. Such profiles and screens with benefits in each instance in excess of $75 were responsible for some 25 per cent of the total medical benefits expenditure on pathology services in September last. The figure in New South Wales, for instance, where this practice is more common, was nearly 40 per cent. 
Undoubtedly one of the reasons for the abuse of bulk billing in regard to pathology services is that there is very little, if any, contact between the patient and the pathologist. This allows the patient to sign the bulk billing form. Few patients are able to do what they are supposed to do and sign the bulk billing form after the pathology services have been rendered certifying that the services itemised on the claim form have been performed. We estimate that the cost of abolition of bulk billing for pathology services will be of the order of $750,000 a year because of the additional staff that will be required within the Health Insurance Commission. However, we feel as a result of the investigations undertaken that this will be a good investment in terms of trying to save public funds. I was told only yesterday that 3 doctors currently under prosecution have been responsible for claims for benefits of the order of $800,000. So certainly it is possible for very high costs to be run up if there is any weakness in the system or any incentive in the system that encourages people to abuse it. We hope that the abolition of bulk billing in this area will tend to moderate this area of abuse. 
The question of health screening to which the honourable member for Prospect referred is under continuing study by the National Health and Medical Research Council, the medical benefits advisory committees, and the Australian Medical Association itself. The new schedule will substantially reduce benefits payable for screenings. I think that in due course I should receive a report from the NHMRC on the advisability of continuing to pay health program grants for medi-checks and other forms of health screening. I have a very open mind about the question. I am inclined to believe that if one can save the life of one person in 100 by such checks it is worth it. But in terms of cost benefit analyses it may not be worth it. It is just a question of how one looks at it. I do not have a hard and fast view but I await the report with some interest so that we may be able to take a rational decision in relation to the matter. 
In relation to the question of privacy, in proposed new section 16a (3) there is provision to allow the Minister to request the pathologist to produce specified requests in writing. These requests in writing should not contain medical information. That information should be on a separate note. The requests in writing are to be similar to specialist referral notices. However, honourable members would be aware that section 130 of the Act provides very strong secrecy controls on departmental officers. The decision to have pathologists keep requests in writing rather than to send them on to the patients and the patients then to submit them with the accounts when claiming medical benefits was designed to make administration easier for the pathologists in sending out accounts. This is the reason for pathologists holding requests in writing for 18 months rather than the health funds holding them. But I take the point that it is necessary to preserve the privacy of the individual. Of course honourable members will recall that last year I indicated that we had referred to the Law Reform Commission this whole question of privacy as it affected universal health insurance in Australia to ensure that the measures that were then in practise in Australia were sufficient to protect the privacy of the individual and if they were not we wanted recommendations from the Commission on how to tighten up the area if necessary. 
In respect of clauses 13 to 18, honourable members opposite mentioned their support for the idea of extending the function of health program grants. The Government is anxious to see one or two pilot health maintenance organisations established in Australia so that we can see them in operation. We wish to evaluate the operation and to see research into and development of alternative health delivery schemes in this country. We want to see them and evaluate them. If they have a role or a purpose in Australia, if they provide more efficient health care delivery there may be an opportunity for us to take advantage of them. But in no way do we intend to spend great lumps of money in this area. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong indicated that in his view the whole fee for service system in the health care area is wrong; that it has created unfortunate misallocation of resources; that it is creating a degree of abuse; and that it is doing nothing to try to overcome this very real problem which should be the core of debate on health care costs in Australia. That is his view. It is a view that is not shared across the country but it is a view that needs to be respected. If there are alternative health schemes that could in fact reduce costs and at the same time maintain a degree of incentive and the efficiency of the medical profession and practice in Australia let us have a look at it. At this stage I would commit the Government only to undertaking research ino alternative health delivery schemes before we commit great wads of public funds to alternative systems. 
The honourable member for Cook made a very important point; that is, that we ought to be careful that in introducing legislation like this we do not dissuade doctors, particularly young professionals coming into the field, from undertaking essential diagnostic tests for patients. In other words, what we need is a balance. We want to be sure that doctors when undertaking diagnostic services are doing so in the best interests of the patient rather than themselves. I think that the honourable member's point needed to be registered in the Parliament and I thank him very much for bringing that point to account. 
I conclude by advising the Parliament that on the whole question of investigation into the diagnostic area I have asked my Department to advise on the establishment of a committee to consider, and make recommendations to the Government on, appropriate methods of dealing with medical benefits an the adjustment of revenue flows in the public hospitals, taking into account the current developments, future developments and high technology diagnosis. This would cover in particular computerised axial tomography scanning, developments in ultra sound and similar activities, but without limiting the committee's role to these aspects. In particular, I should like to see such a committee requested to make investigations into suggestions to alter the basis for determining medical benefits, for example, by defining more precisely what constitutes a minimum service for which fees are payable or by excluding capital costs in computing an appropriate benefit. It could also investigate some form of regulation of procurement and installation of unit such as may be achieved by certificates of need which several American States have applied to capital investment in beds and expensive equipment. The theory is that because such investment generates costs to be met by the community it is proper for the community to decide where and when such investments should take place. Medical benefits would then be paid only in respect of approved units. It could also inquire into arrangements existing between specialists and hospitals concerning the sharing of income arising from diagnostic services performed by the specialists on private patients and hospitals using hospital equipment. 
I should like to see once again the AMA, the Royal Australian College of Physicians and the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons and the Society for Medical and Biological Engineering join in a working party to examine that whole area so that we do not get behind as we have in respect to the pathology area. I know that the reputable people- they constitute the majority of professionals in the field- are most anxious to ensure that bad medical pratice in Australia does not become a feature of our whole health care system. I thank the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for reminding me that the clock is ticking on. I thank honourable members for the valuable contributions that they have made to this debate. I am sure that the amendments that we make to the Health Insurance Act will reduce a great area of abuse in the provision of pathology services. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Surveys in Australia indicate that approximately 350 children are born each year with cleft hp and /or palate. Approximately 275 of these children would have a cleft palate. 
Precise information concerning the cost incurred by parents of these children in obtaining correction of the condition is not available. 
Most children with cleft palates require treatment by orthodontists. 
and (5) My Department has undertaken some studies of how assistance might best be provided for essential orthodontic and other paramedical treatment required in cases of cleft lip and palate conditions. Further studies and full consultation with the professional bodies concerned is essential before any proposals can be finalised. However my department is continuing in an examination of the matter with a view to assisting those suffering from this condition. 
The precise cost of extending medical benefits arrangements to cover orthodontic treatment for these cases is not known. Medical benefits are, of course, payable under the present health insurance arrangements for medical services rendered by medical practitioners and approved dentists. 
Butter Exports from European Economic Community (Question No. 412) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Claims submitted through Medibank's Broken Hill office (which handles only the receipt, pre-assessment checks and subsequent dispatch of claims for processing) average 200 per week. This figure includes claims submitted by some of Medibank's agent chemists. A further three agent chemists submit claims direct to Medibank at a combined rate of 32 per week. 
Medibank does not have an office of its own in Mildura. The Mildura District Hospital and Medical Fund acts as Medibank 's agent in Mildura and handles an average of 274 cash claims per week. A further 25-30 claims each week are received, checked and dispatched for processing and payment by cheque. 
Medibank's Whyalla office handles a weekly average of 272 cash claims and a further 210 claims per week are received and checked prior to being dispatched for processing and subsequent payment by cheque. 
Broken Hill-not available; Mildura-$24.16; Whyalla-$ 10.87. 
The above figures relate to cash-paid claims only. Since no cash payment facilities are provided at Broken Hill the information is not available in relation to that office. 
The differential in the value of claims between Mildura and Whyalla is possibly explained by the fact that claims lodged at Mildura average two and a half line items per claim whereas at Whyalla the average is only one point four line items per claim. 
Broken Hill office handles 87 per cent of the claims known to emanate from Broken Hill but separate statistics are not maintained in relation to claims which may be sent by post to a Medibank office or where benefit has been assigned to a doctor. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Records are not maintained to show the breakdown by electoral divisions of expenditure under major programs of the Department of Social Security. 
Whilst the information sought is accessible for some programs involving relatively small numbers of grants and total expenditures, its compilation for all major programs would involve a detailed analysis of expenditure vouchers and other records for which staff resources are not at present available. 
Moreover, for many programs, figures supplied on the basis of electoral boundaries would be misleading if taken to indicate the extent to which facilities are provided for residents of an electoral division. Particularly in the case of urban electorates, homes, hostels, centres and the like serve a population drawn from areas extending beyond the electoral boundaries. 
Social Security Benefits in Municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick (Question No. 711) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) First Assistant Director-General-  Mr R.  H. Searle; Assistant Director-General (Animal Quarantine)-  Mr I.  D. Cameron-Stephen (a); Assistant Director-General (General Quarantine)-  Dr F.  S. D. Thompson; Assistant DirectorGeneral (Plant Quarantine)-  Mr J.  R. Morschel. 

 Mr R. H. Searle-Appointed 2 December 1976;  Mr I.  D. Cameron-Stephen, M.R.C.V.S. -Appointed 28 February 1974;  Dr F.  S. D. Thompson, M.R.C.S. Eng., L.R.C.P. Lond., D.P.H. Eng., F.R.I.P.H.H. Lond.-Appointed 13 September 1973;  Mr J.  R. Morschel-Appointed 22 December 1965. 
Animal Quarantine Branch: Assistant DirectorGeneral; Veterinary Officer, Class 3 (2 positions); Veterinary Officer, Class 2; Clerk, Class 6; Clerk, Class 1; Stenosecretary, Grade I ; Clerical Assistant, Grade 3. 
General Quarantine Branch: Assistant Director-General; Clerk, Class 8; Steno-secretary, Grade 1. 
Plant Quarantine Branch: Assistant Director-General; Science 4 (2 positions); Science 3 (2 positions); Science 2 (2 positions); Science I (2 positions); Technical Assistant (3 positions); Clerk, Class 7; Clerk, Class 4; Steno-secretary, Grade 1; Clerical Assistant, Grade 2; Gardener. 
There are four veterinarians in the Animal Quarantine Branch. 

 Mr Cameron-Stephen is currently on sick leave.  Mr H.  R. Peisley, B.V.Sc, M.R.C.V.S., M.A.C.V.Sc, is acting in position. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the purpose of answering this question, the definition of a 'community health centre' is consistent with the definition in my answer to question No. 983  (Hansard,  1 December 1976, pp. 3098-9). 
The following information has been provided or confirmed by the relevant State health authorities: 
1 ) Yes, except for Western Australia. At the time of my reply to question No. 983, it was expected that there would be 7 community health centres operating in Western Australia as at 30 June 1977. However, funding of one centre, which had ceased, has since been recommenced. Accordingly it is expected that, at 30 June 1977, there will be 8 community health centres operating in Western Australia. 
(a) 18 Cairns Street, Red Hill, Qld 4059. 21 Glendower Street, Perth, W.A. 6000. 
No other Community Health Program funded community health centres have ceased operations since 1 December 1976. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The only information available is that shown in answer to Question No. 6 11. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) An accurate figure is not available. As at 3 1 December 1976 the Department of Social Security was paying special benefit to some 553 persons who did not qualify for a pension, because they lacked residence qualifications. Persons for whom maintenance guarantees were provided constitute pan but not all of this number. 
and (3) The provision for maintenance guarantees is contained in the Migration Regulations which are the responsibility of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs from whom the required information should be sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Divisional Offices of my Department wrote to each registered organisation operating in their respective State on the dates shown hereunder: 
New South Wales-29 April 1977 
Victoria-20 April 1977 
Queensland-2 1 April 1977 
South Australia- 1 9 April 1977 
Western Australia-21 April 1977 
Tasmania- 20 April 1977 
There was a delay in asking for the information and this is regretted. 
The information sought as mentioned above as a consequence of question No. 1204 has now been received and is as follows: 
House of Representatives Question No. 1204 Health Insurance Organisations 
1 ) ( a) Blue Cross Organisations ( five in number) 
Blue Cross Organisations with one exception, make no provision for direct elected contributor representation on the directorates of the organisations. These organisations are: 
The Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia- N.S.W. 
The Hospital Benefit Fund of Western Australia Incorporated 
Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited- N.S.W., Qld,Tas. 
The Mutual Hospital Association Limited, S.A. 
The Articles of Association of The Hospital Benefits Association Ltd (Victoria) provide to the effect that all members of the company must be and must have been contributors for at least three years prior to becoming a member of the Association. Of the 24 members, 8 are elected by the contributors at a public meeting of contributors. 
From the 24 members, 1 1 are drawn each year to form a Board of Directors. The Board must include 4 of the members elected by the contributors. 
b ) Friendly Society Organisations 
Control of the registered health benefit funds conducted by Friendly Societies in determined by the Friendly Society rules and the provisions of the several State Friendly Societies Acts. In general contributors to those funds do not  per se  have any say in the control of the Friendly Societies affairs including administration of health funds. Control is vested in lodge membership. Members of lodges elect their office bearers and their delegates to higher bodies which in turn elect their directorate. Contributors to such funds are not required to be members of the Society. 
Other 'Open' Membership Organisations 
The rules of the following other 'open' membership organisations make no provision for direct elected contributor representation: 
Health Insurance Commission (Medibank Private)- all States 
Cessnock District Hospital Contribution Fund-N.S.W. (Hospital Fund only) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The increase in the age limit was in accordance with a recommendation of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, whose membership has changed since then. At that time the Committee was not providing the reasons for its recommendations. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) It would not be appropriate for me to divulge the contents of any correspondence which may have taken place between the Prime Minister and his correspondents. 
) See answer to Senate question No. 9 1 9. 
It is not possible to obtain the exact cost of paying single supporting fathers the same benefits as are at present paid to single supporting mothers because of lack of accurate data relating to the income distribution of such families. However, a costing based on preliminary data from the survey of families conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in May 1975 indicates that the full year cost of such a benefit would be to the order of $8. 10m. For the purposes of this costing it was assumed that there would be no change in the workforce participation of the supporting fathers as a result of the introduction of the benefit and also that all those eligible for the benefit would receive it. 

 HMAS Melbourne (Question No.  596) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (3) In a statement I made to the press on 10 May 1977, concerning the pension and benefit increases which applied from early May, I indicated that when the change was made from a means-test to an income-test some 155 000 pensioners throughout Australia received increased amounts (this included widow pensioners and supporting mother beneficiaries). I also indicated that slightly fewer than 50 000 pensioners were receiving a higher pension than they would have been entitled to under the new income test. Special provision was made in the legislation to save pension being reduced in these cases. 
and (4) The information is not available. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The Commissioner for Employees' Compensation has advised me that, according to the records kept in his office, no such claims have been made. 
Inquiry into Land Development and Housing Costs (Question No. 876) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (6) The existing program under which women's refuges are funded by the Commonwealth, under the Community Health Program, is a Commonwealth/State agreementwhich is the responsibility of the Minister for Health. The question asked by the honourable member should be directed to the Minister for Health. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2)1 have received representations from the Australian Federation of Child Care Associations which is an association representing the commercial day care sector, recording details of a survey of vacancies in child care centres in the commercial day care sector. 
I am unable to determine whether the results of the survey conducted by the Federation are correct; in those centres from which information was obtained, the indications were that a vacancy rate of 30 per cent existed. 
and (5) Approvals for new services under the Children 's Services Program are given against the Government 's policy of ensuring that Commonwealth funds are allocated to provide genuine child care for those in need. 
The majority of services that have been established by the Government, were approved prior to 1976. There is some indication that there has been a fall in demand for services provided by these centres. 
Government policy is to encourage the development of flexible multi-purpose services, capable of meeting changing demands and capable of helping the mother in the workforce and the mother at home. 
All proposals for new services are examined carefully, taking into account both demand and supply data for the particular area. 
Answer to Question on Notice  (Question No. 892) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Section 40 ( 1 ) of the Social Services Act provides that a pension shall be paid to the pensioner or, on behalf of the pensioner, to such other person as the pensioner appoints. Therefore if a pensioner appoints a warrantee, the Department of Social Security has no discretion in the matter, and no guidelines are required. 
Section 43 of the Social Services Act provides that where the Director-General is satisfied that, for any reason, it is desirable that payment of the whole or a portion of a pension should be made to another person, institution or authority on behalf of the pensioner, the Director-General may authorise payment accordingly. Such authorisations are rare, occurring usually only where a person is mentally or physically incapable of appointing a warrantee, or where he is, for some valid reason, unable to manage his financial affairs. In such cases, the Depanment authorises payment to a responsible adult person, preferably a relative. 
The credentials of the proposed warrantee are not examined if the appointment is made by the pensioner. 
Where the appointment is not made by the pensioner, the Depanment of Social Security satisfies itself that the proposed warrantee has taken and will continue to take an interest in the welfare of the pensioner. 
Warrants authorised by the pensioner continue for the period specified by him and may be revoked by him at anytime. Warrants authorised by the Director-General may continue indefinitely. The Depanment of Social Security reviews warrants if at any time there is reason to believe that the warrant is being abused. 
, (5), (6) and (7) The information required is not readily available. 
CIA: Kerr-McGee Australia Ltd  (Question No. 910) 
-The Minister of Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The only information available is that shown in answer to Question No. 61 1. 
Directory of Ethnic Organisations in Australia (Question No. 968) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
A new edition of the directory of Ethnic Organisations in Australia is currently in the process of being published by the Department of Social Security and this will soon be distributed free of charge to persons and organisations concerned with the well being of migrants. The current edition of the Directory consists of separate publications for each State and the Australian Capital Territory. 
In view of the developing role of State Governments in publishing similar directories, the second edition will be a modified format and its primary purpose will be simply to provide a convenient, practical check list of organisations for all States and Territories in the one publication. The directory will also contain other information important to ethnic groups about matters which are primarily a Commonwealth responsibility. An important addition will be a comprehensive listing of multi-lingual material published by Commonwealth and State Government Departments. 
Also, it is proposed in future to publish and distribute new and updated editions of the directory every 1 2 months. 
As soon as printed copies are available I intend sending a copy to all Senators and Members. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Replies to some of the points raised in the Prime Minister's letter to State Premiers were dated as follows: 
New South Wales- 1 6 November 1 976 
Victoria-4 May 1977 
Queensland-22 December 1976 
South Australia- 8 December 1976 
Western Australia- 23 December 1976 
Tasmania- 9 December 1976 
The form of consultative arrangements has not been finalised in any State. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) From 8 May 1973, age, invalid, wives' and widows' pensions have continued to be paid to pensioners leaving Australia. Supporting mothers' benefits have been payable overseas from the time of their introduction in July 1973. The conditions for payment of pensions overseas are substantially the same as apply in Australia, but supplementary assistance and fringe benefit concessions are not available outside Australia. 
and (4) The information requested is not available. However, at 30 June 1976, 10,008 pensions were being paid to pensioners overseas and the expenditure in 1975-76 was approximately $14.6 million. This includes amounts paid under reciprocal arrangements to Australian residents temporarily in the United Kingdom or New Zealand. 
See answer to ( 1 ). The numbers of pensioners in each class at 30 June 1976 is shown at page 1 16 of the Annual Report of the Director-General, Department of Social Security, for 1975-76. 
Information is not available from which an exhaustive list could be compiled of countries whose pensions continue to be payable to people who cease to be residents. A number of countries pay some pensions abroad, e.g. Greece, Italy and The Netherlands. In some instances, e.g. West Germany, pensions are paid to aliens abroad only if there is a reciprocal agreement between the two countries concerned. In other cases, pensions are not payable abroad or are not payable abroad except under reciprocal arrangements. 
Committees on Discrimination in Employment  (Question No. 382) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my reply to this question published in  Hansard  of 3 December 1976 I undertook to provide the honourable member with the additional information he requested as soon as it could be extracted. 
The following table sets out the available information. Details of the categories of services distinguishing as between specialists ana general practitioners are not available for Commonwealth Medical Benefits services. All Pensioner Medical Service Benefits services are regarded as general practitioner consultations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 assume that my colleague is referring to the specific organisation known as the Preterm Foundation which I understand provides the following services in Sydney: pregnancy testing; pregnancy counselling and referral; legal termination of pregnancy; contraceptive counselling and medical assistance; research into abortion and contraception; education program. 
The Foundation has not indicated to the Capital Territory Health Commission whether it intends to establish a clinic in Canberra or not. However, an association known as Preterm Canberra has applied for incorporation in the A.C.T. under the Association s Incorporation Ordinance 1953-1966. 
A separate organisation known as Population Services International (Australia) Limited (PSI) has advised that it intends to open a private medical clinic in Canberra and that its services will include: counselling services; male/female sterilisation; detection and treatment of VD, minor gynaecological disorders; pregnancy testing. 
The termination of pregnancies will not be carried out at other than a public hospital during the period in which the Termination of Pregnancy (Temporary Provisions) Ordinance is in force. 
Neither organisation has sought nor received any financial assistance from the Government for establishment or running costs in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Scheduled medical services provided through such clinics attract rebate either from Medibank or from private insurance funds. 
Consultations with Industrial Registrar (Question No. 436) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am not aware of any properly conducted research study which can support such a claim. The honourable member will be aware that claims of this sort have been made in various parts of the world on the basis of the review of clinical records by clinicians and researchers properly qualified in the analysis of clinical data. 
The Division of Surgery has been conducting a survey on the utilisation of the surgical facilities in conjunction with the hospital administration as a step towards the more efficient utilisation of surgical facilities and the organisation of peer review. That is the appropriate body to review surgical rates generally and I can assure the honourable member that any reliable information on over utilisation would be referred to the Division for analysis. 
Contract to Inter-city Security (Question No.  474) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (5) There are no reliable statistics of the number of abortions carried out in Australia. 
Information is available for medical services for which medical benefits have been paid under various individual items in the Medical Benefits Schedule. The information relates only to services performed by medical practitioners on a fee-for-service basis, and which were the subject of claims for medical benefits. For instance the information would not include any of the large numbers of medical services provided by recognised hospitals to 'hospital patients' in standard wards (i.e. the former 'public ward patients'). Under the Commonwealth/State Hospital Agreements, these medical services are provided to these patients by the recognised hospitals. Medical benefits are not payable in respect of such services, and the cost of their provision forms part of the costs shared under the Hospital Agreements. 
The Medical Benefits Schedule includes medical services in the nature of gynaecological procedures which may result in the termination of pregnancy. Schedule item 6469 'Evacuation of the contents of the gravid uterus by curettage or suction curettage . . . ' is the item under which most abortions would be itemised. 
Another gynaecological procedure which may result in the termination of a pregnancy is covered by Schedule items 6460/6464- 'Uterus, curettage of, with or without dilation, including curettage for incomplete miscarriage'. Information is not available on the number of such cases in which a pregnancy was terminated as the items cover a number of gynaecological procedures apart from termination of a pregnancy. 
On the basis of information available it is estimated that the number of services for which medical benefits were paid by Medibank and the private health funds in 1976 under item 6469 was 39,400 and the medical benefits paid amounted to $2. 5m. 
and (4) A doctor providing any medical procedure should have regard to the laws of the State or Territory in which he practises, professional ethics and the patient's interest and welfare. The information available does not distinguish which of the services mentioned above (i.e. 39,400) were performed for medical reasons, or other reasons. ' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A complaint was received by my Department concerning the terms of an industrial agreement reached between the Voluntary Care Association of New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory and the Health and Research Employees' Association of Australia. 
My Department is making detailed enquiries regarding the matters raised in the complaint. Until that information is available I am not able to comment in detail on the matters raised. However, I would be most concerned if it is found that deficit-financed nursing homes, because of the public assistance provided to them, have conceded industrial conditions superior to those applying in the industry as a whole. 
-On 31 March 1977  Mr E.  G. Whitlam asked a question on notice concerning benefits for single supporting fathers. 
In providing a reply to the honourable member, I stated that a costing based on preliminary data from a survey of families conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in May 1975 indicated that the full year cost of such a benefit would be to the order of $8. 10m. This figure should have been $8- 10m. 
Public Service Positions in the Australian Capital Territory  (Question No. 599) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
In July 1976, the Hospitals and Health Services Commission was advised of the decision by the Queensland Government. This decision came to my attention in August 1976. 
Since receipt of the advice of the Queensland Government's decision, it has been presumed that these two refuges could be faced with a shortage of funds. 
5 ) and ( 6 ) Questions concerning the funding of women 's refuges have been under discussion for some time between the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Security and myself, also our Departments. I understand that in the meantime the Prime Minister was in touch with the Premier of Queensland. With regard to the two Queensland refuges currently approved for Commonwealth purposes under the 
Community Health Program, the practicability of alternative methods of funding are currently under consideration. 
Yes. 
As far as my Department is aware, the other 17 women's refuges are being maintained at a viable level of activity. 
Excess Water Rates in Canberra  (Question No.  646) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) While the exact information requested is not available, I have supplied below what relevant information is available. 
Information is available for medical services for which medical benefits have been paid under various individual items in the Medical Benefits Schedule. The information relates only to services performed by medical practitioners on a fee-for-service basis, and which were the subject of claims for medical benefits. For instance the information would not include any of the large numbers of medical services provided by recognised hospitals to 'hospital patients' in standard wards (i.e. the former 'public ward patients'). Under the Commonwealth/State Hospital Agreements, these medical services are provided to these patients by the recognised hospitals. Medical benefits are not payable in respect of such services, and the cost of their provision forms part of the costs shared under the Hospital Agreements. 
The Medical Benefits Schedule includes medical services in the nature of gynaecological procedures which may result in the termination of pregnancy. Schedule item 6469- Evacuation of the contents of the gravid uterus by curettage or suction curettage . . '-is the item under which most terminations would be itemised. 
Another gynaecological procedure which may result in the termination of a pregnancy is covered by Schedule items 6460/6464- 'Uterus, curettage of, with or without dilation, including curettage for incomplete miscarriage'. Information is not available on the number of such cases in which a pregnancy was terminated as the items cover a number of gynaecological procedures apart from termination of a pregnancy. 
On the basis of information available for item 6469- Evacuation of the contents of the gravid uterus by curettage or suction curettage . '-it is estimated that the amount paid as medical benefits in 1974-75 was $0.9m, and in 1975-76, $2.4m. This procedure was not introduced into the Medical Benefits Schedule until 24 April 1974 and so information on this procedure prior to 1974-75 is not available. 
The information available does not cover at this stage fees actually charged as distinct from the medical benefits paid. 
The following table shows the fees and benefits effective from 1 January 1977 in respect of the items mentioned above- 
Item 6469- Evacuation of the contents of the gravid uterus by curettage or suction curettage 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following is a list of the organisations approved for Health Program Grants in the 1976-77 financial year indicating, where appropriate, the date on which the approval of the Grant was terminated. 
Grant terminated on 30 September 1976 
New South Wales 
Unilever Australia Pry Ltd 
Sydney County Council 
General Motors-Holden (N.S.W.) 
Farmer and Company Ltd 
Q.B.E. Insurance Ltd 
Manufacturers ' Mutual Insurance Ltd 
Victoria 
Yallourn Medical/Hospital Society 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is assumed that the honourable member refers to the Clarence Community Health Centre, located in Bayfield Street, Bellerive, Hobart. Prior to the commencement of services from this Centre on 2 May 1977, services were provided from temporary premises located at 238 Rokeby Road, Howrah. Some information provided in this answer relates to the operation of the temporary Centre. The following information has been obtained in consultation with the Tasmanian health authorities- 
1 ) The equivalent of approximately four full-time medical practitioners. 
(a) The Centre employs the equivalent of approximately 3.5 salaried medical practitioners and, in addition, sessionary paid medical practitioners provide approximately six sessions, each of 316 hours duration, per week, (b) There are no medical practitioners who charge fees for their own use. 
The salary bill in respect of salaried and sessionary paid general medical practitioners employed at the Centre is estimated at $149 500 for 1976-77. During the most recent six- months period for which figures are available, viz., 
November 1976 to April 1977, these medical practitioners provided 10 007 patient consultations. 
No. The current arrangements are that the Department of Health Services, Tasmania, proposes to impose charges equivalent to medical benefits payable in respect of professional services rendered by salaried medical practitioners at the Centre to privately insured persons. Medical benefits organisations are required to pay fund benefits in accordance with the basic medical benefits table to contributors who are charged for professional services received at the Centre. Accounts will be issued for such services by and in the name of the Department of Health Services, Tasmania, and will show the name of the medical practitioner who renders the service. 
A 24 hour, seven day a week service is provided from the Centre. A nursing service is available at the Centre at all times, and a medical practitioner is available on-call out of hours. The out of hours service is financed jointly by the Commonwealth and State Governments through the Community Health Program, which is also the source of funding for the other operational costs of the Centre. Staff rostered for duty or on-call during out of hours periods are entitled to penalty rates in accordance with normal State Public Service awards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The present referral system, which was introduced on 1 November 1970, was directly based on the recommendations of a special working party which included senior representatives of the medical profession. A formal system was considered necessary because of the introduction at that time of higher benefits for a large number of services when rendered by specialists and consultant physicians to referred patients. The system is a formalisation of procedures which previously existed within the medical profession, and provides written evidence that a referral has taken place. The referral requirements relate solely to the payment of medical benefits. The system recognises the fundamental right of a patient to seek referral to a specialist or consultant physician, and that, when referral is requested, medical benefits are payable at the appropriate higher rate. The system also acknowledges that, as a general rule, an initial consultation by a general practitioner is in the best interests of the patient. 
The only statistical information available relates to the number of services for which benefits have been paid at the specialist rate. Referral certificates may be valid for periods up to three months or twelve months and there is no way of knowing how many specialist services may be performed during these periods in respect of any referral certificate. Moreover, in the case of surgical operations, for example, a referral certificate may cover procedures performed by as many as three specialists- the surgeon, the assistant surgeon and the anaesthetist. No special staff are employed to process referral certificates. Checks to ensure that referral certificates are provided where necessary to enable benefits to be paid at the higher specialist rate are carried out as a normal assessing procedure. Notices of referral are processed by Medibank and private medical benefits funds in assessing benefits, not by the Department. Printing of notices of referral pads is arranged by the Department; however the current annual printing requirements are approximately 100,000 pads comprising SO notices to a pad. 
See (2) above. 
Information regarding 'please explain' queries is not available. There have been no prosecutions relating to referral forms. 
Unless a referral system is used, specialists could be overwhelmed by patients, many of whom may require only G.P. treatment. The referral system is a filter for the protection of patients, general practitioners and specialists. The current referral system is considered to be the most satisfactory method of achieving the desired result, providing a relatively easy and economical procedure which has been successful in meeting the majority of cases involving the need for specialist treatment. The Medibank Review Committee considered the operation of the referral system during its examination of Medibank in 1976, but did not propose any changes. 
From the information available to my Department, it seems that various forms of specialist referral systems operate in a number of countries, including Canada, France, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Britain, Austria, Israel, Italy, Denmark, Norway, Finland and Yugoslavia. The referral may be to a private or salaried specialist attached to a hospital or polyclinic, or to a private practising specialist. Referral forms or cards are in use in some of these countries, however, little detail is known about their referral mechanisms. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$70m (estimate for 1976-77). 
$6m. (This amount is an estimate of the Commonwealth ordinary and intensive care benefits payable in respect of patients accommodated in nursing homes approved under the National Health Act who have retained or taken out both medical and hospital insurance with private health insurance organisations since the changes to the Medibank arrangements which became effective from I October 1976. A figure for patients accommodated in nursing homes approved under the Nursing Homes Assistance Act is not available because the subsidy paid does not relate to the insurable status of the patients. ) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed that the AMA Gazette of 12 May 1 977 contained a statement to this effect in a column headed 'So they say . . .' in the context that they were said to be individual and isolated instances. 
No- without further information it is not possible to identify the particular general practitioners and to ascertain whether there had been any infringement of the Health Insurance Act. However, in this regard the Government has introduced a Bill to amend the Health Insurance Act, which will make accountable practitioners, who initiate pathology services, as to whether the services are reasonably necessary for the adequate medical care of their patients. This accountability will be to a group of their professional colleagues on a Medical Services Committee of Inquiry. Where the Committee finds that a practitioner has initiated excessive services it may recommend that the practitioner be reprimanded and/or the medical benefits paid for the services identified as excessive, will be re-paid by the practitioner either to the Commonwealth or the private health fund as appropriate. 
Public Servants Employed in Defence (Question No. 906) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Acting Prime Minister to Question No. 1003. 
Overseas Travel by Departmental Staff (Question No.  1016) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Acting Prime Minister to Question No. 1003  (Hansard,  2 June 1977, page 2531). 
Overseas Travel by Departmental Staff  (Question No. 1019)  Mr Morris  asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 1  June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) I July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
) What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( I ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister' Department, received and when. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The importation of commercial quantities of potatoes for sowing is prohibited; small samples of new varieties may be imported by official bodies only. These samples are subject to treatment and are grown in quarantine for two years. When potatoes are in short supply in Australia, potatoes may be imported from specified disease free areas of New Zealand. These potatoes are imported only for processing under quarantine supervision, and must be free of soil and packed in clean containers. There is no quarantine restriction on the import of frozen or processed potatoes as these are non-viable and do not present a quarantine risk. 
b ) Avocados may only be imported from areas free of the disease sunblotch, or from groves which have been certified free of the disease by an acceptable authority. Avocados from an area where fruit fly is present are subject to mandatory fumigation, otherwise they are inspected on arrival in Australia and treated if required. 
Cut flowers may only be imported provided they are not prohibited species (e.g. weeds or poisonous plants) and provided they cannot be propogated. The flowers are inspected on arrival and given an appropriate treatment if it is required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a single claim may include one or a number of services, I provide hereunder details of the proportion of services bulk billed to the Health Insurance Commission in the quarter ended June 1977: 
All medical services (including Pathology)- 64.1 percent. 
Pathology services- 73.4 per cent 
Department of the Treasury: Overseas Travel  (Question No.  1006) 
-I shall convey the terms of that question to the Minister for Social Security who, undoubtedly, will make the necessary inquiries on the honourable member's behalf and give him a full answer. I should like to make it clear that since this Government came to office the pensioners of Australia have attained a sense of security that they had never achieved before. The indexation of pensions to the consumer price index on a twice yearly basis has ensured that pensioners do not fall behind the general standards of living of other people in the community on that income level. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) The following community health centres, which are located in States and which are funded by the Commonwealth under the Community Health Program, provide medical services by salaried or sessionally paid general practitioners, at no direct cost to the patient: 
New South WalesMr Druitt Polyclinic 
Benevolent Society of New South Wales Community 
Health Centre, Peakhurst Hunter Working Women's Centre, Mayfield Women's Health Centre, Liverpool Women's Health Centre,  Leichhardt 
Victoria- Kensington Community Health Centre Deer Park Community Health Centre Eaglehawk/Long Gully Community Health Centre De Paul Community Health Centre, Fitzroy West Heidelberg Community Health Centre Richmond Community Health Centre Singleton Community Health Centre, Collingwood 
Queensland- 
Inala Community Health Centre 
South AustraliaWomen's Community Health Centre, Hindmarsh 
I understand that the Victorian Health Authorities are giving consideration to the introduction of charges in the abovementioned centres in that State. 
It is impracticable to accurately separate the costs of services by salaried or sessionally paid general practitioners in community health centres from the overall costs of operating the centres, including costs of services by other staff. However, the estimated total annual cost of- salaries payable to 45 full-time and part-time practitioners (equivalent to 37 full-time practitioners); and sessional payments to 18 practitioners, in such centres is approximately $1,113,750, of which the Commonwealth has been meeting 90 per cent under the Community Health Program. 
Australian Capital Territory- 
Of the seven health centres in the Australian Capital Territory which provide medical services, six have at least one salaried doctor. These salaried practitioners provide a free medical service only to contributors of the Medibank levy. All other patients are charged for services at the level of the patients' reimbursement from the private health fund. 
The accounting system which operates in the health centres in the Australian Capital Territory does not allow a costing of individual patients who pay Medibank levy and who are therefore treated free of charge. 
Northern TerritoryHealth centres in the Northern Territory are normally divided into Urban and Rural. 
Urban health centres, which are exclusively provided and controlled by the Commonwealth Department of Health are situated at Darwin (city area, Nightcliff, Parap, Berrimah), Katherine, Tennant Creek, Alice Springs and Gove. 
Rural health centres, the physical facilities of which vary considerably, are provided in the main by the Commonwealth Department of Health. A number are operated by mission authorities and pastoral properties although these operations are subsidised by the Commonwealth. Centres are situated at: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department has received some information of benefits claims paid by private funds for the December 1976 and March 1977 Quarters, but this information is still outstanding for several major funds. Until sufficient information is available, meaningful analyses cannot be prepared. 
Even then, there is no guarantee that a crude comparison of the relative drawing patterns of members of private funds and of Medibank Standard would in itself provide complete information on alleged abuse of bulk billing. For the reasons as to why the Government decided to limit bulk billing for pathology services to eligible pensioners and their dependants, I refer the honourable member to the report of the Pathology Services Working Party which I tabled in Parliament on 25 May 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Requests for information are made by the States and private consultants to the Health Facilities Information and Planning System developed conjointly by my Department and the Department of Construction. Responses to these requests can often take up to two or three weeks to complete. This is not considered to be abnormal, because of the often complex nature of the information requested. 

 Mr Justice Fox ;Correspondence 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Vietnamese refugees referred to by the honourable member arrived at Broome in two vessels on 15 May 1977. The Quarantine Medical Officers at Broome were informed of the impending arrival of the refugees and asked to make a full health assessment of each person on board. Blood slides were taken and malarial prophylaxis was commenced and treatment for scabies was instituted. Further medical examinations were carried out in the migrant hostel in Perth. The part time Quarantine Assistant and a Quarantine Officer (Animals) attended the vessels. All food was confiscated and incinerated. The vessels were treated with Gammexane to kill cockroaches. The vessels were not brought along side and were kept about half a mile offshore. 
The Acting Assistant Director (Medical), Penh, the two Quarantine Medical Officers, the pan time Quarantine Assistant and the Quarantine Officer (Animals) at Broome. 
The Quarantine Inspector (North West Pons) was not advised. It is not routine to inform the Quarantine Inspector at Port Hedland of the arrival of vessels in Broome, Derby or Wyndham unless special circumstances require it. The pan time Quarantine Assistant at Broome was advised. 
Quarantine: Aircraft Landing at Broome (Question No. 1049) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1974-75-119; 1975-76-5; 1976-77-13. 
Yes. 
There is no incinerator available at Broome Airport. Only small aircraft (carrying between 1 and 6 persons) normally use the airport. The present practice is that if the aircraft is terminating at Broome or staying for some time, garbage, if any, is burnt in the hospital incinerator. If the aircraft is proceeding directly to Penh and garbage is retained on board it is dealt with by quarantine staff at Penh Airport. 
There are no plans at this stage to provide an incinerator at Broome or Broome Airport. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information regarding the priority of individual projects in Queensland was received initially in a letter dated 1 8 October 1 976. This list was subsequently withdrawn by the Queensland Government and a further revised priority listing was received dated 10 March 1977. 
I think the honourable gentleman is referring to a drug which, in some circles, is regarded as a wonder drug in this area of treatment. If that is the drug, it is currently undergoing review by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee which is presently investigating the quality of the drug, its safety and its efficacy. The Committee is also examining clinical trials which have been performed to ascertain whether the drug has equal qualities for both short-term and long-term treatment. I expect a recommendation from the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, probably before the end of this year. If the Committee recommends the inclusion of the drug tagamet on the pharmaceutical benefits list I will have no hesitation in having it included on that list. 
Naturally on an issue such as this I cannot answer on behalf of the new DirectorGeneral of Social Services or indeed the Minister for Social Security. I certainly do not think that the Minister for Social Security would be taking any action which would differ from actions she has taken in the past on this issue. However, I will refer the question to the Minister for Social Security and make sure that the honourable member gets an answer as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Quarantine clearance of mail and parcel post at Broome Post Office is undertaken by a quarantine officer. The officer at present stationed at Broome is  Mr D.  Ledger. He was appointed a quarantine officer in May 1 97S. 

 Mr Ledger is a stock inspector in the West Australian Department of Agriculture. He underwent in-service quarantine training before being posted to Broome. 
Fumigation is undertaken in Perth. My Department arranges freight but fumigation costs are borne by the owner or addressee. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
An interim reply from Western Australia was received by the Prime Minister on 30 October 1976. Subsequently, on  1  April 1977, the Western Australian Premier issued a Press statement announcing that the State Government would not provide funds for the Australian Assistance Plan. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At present, services provided by the Commonwealth Pathology Laboratories are free of charge. 
However, as announced in the statements attached to the 1977-78 Budget Speech, charges are to be introduced on 1 October 1 977 for services undertaken by the Commonwealth Pathology Laboratories for privately insured patients. 
by leave- The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has already announced the Government's decision on uranium mining in Australia. My colleague, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  has in addition outlined the environmental controls to be adopted by the Government and he briefly referred to some of the health aspects of these. I now propose to give in some more detail the measures that will be taken to protect the health of those involved in uranium mining and milling and those people living within the proximity of mines who could be exposed to possible hazards. 
My Department, in particular its Australian Radiation Laboratory, has for many years been aware of possible health hazards in uranium mining. It must be remembered that my Department was involved in monitoring the health of those involved in uranium mining which commenced at Rum Jungle early in the 1950s and lasted until the 1960s. Since that time, of course, a great deal of new information has become available on the effects on health and any new information which becomes available will be used to update the control measures that should be implemented. 
Effective safety practices for employees involved in mining or members of the public in the neighbourhood of that activity must be founded on a number of points. These include soundly based radiation protection standards and properly drawn-up working rules; well instructed and supervised employees; effective protective facilities, equipment and procedures to minimise radiation exposure; regular and frequent monitoring and assessment of radiation exposures and contamination levels by suitably experienced and qualified staff; comprehensive health surveillance of employees in the activity; acceptance and implementation of the principle that radiation exposures be kept to the lowest practical level; and responsible and disciplined approaches by both management and employees, so that no person causes unnecessary radiation exposure to himself or to others. 
With these aspects in mind, my Department set out to develop a code of practice that would contain provisions to comply with these criteria. On the recommendation of an interdepartmental committee convened by my Department, a Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores was prepared. This Code deals with radiation protection aspects only and is not concerned with the other potential hazards or with the broader environmental issues already elaborated on by my colleague, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. The draft Code was circulated for comment to 94 recipients made up of appropriate Australian and State government departments and authorities, uranium mining and exploration companies and mining associations, and relevant trade unions and trade union councils. 
The Code was accepted by both this and the previous Government and was submitted in the evidence my Department gave to the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. The Inquiry in both its first and second reports acknowledged the Code, now titled 'Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores, 1975', to be an authoritative document and one which should be included in legislation. The Government has accepted and indeed gone further than this recommendation of the Ranger Inquiry and, as already indicated by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Code Will be included in the Uniform National Code of Practice which will be established by the Commonwealth, with the States, by appropriate legislation. It is considered that the consistent and rigorous application of the Code of Practice will ensure radiation safety for employees engaged in mining and milling operations and for members of the community in the neighbourhood of the mines or mills. My Department will co-operate in a continuing monitoring of radioactivity, air, water and effluent to ensure that standards are met. This on-going surveillance program will involve co-operation of the various responsible departments, allow critical evaluation of the operation and ensure updating as more scientific data becomes available. 
Provisions of the Code relate to the management of all radioactive materials produced as waste and effluent in the mining and milling operations. The requirements of the Code are intended to be applied in conjunction with other safety requirements for mining and milling operations and with relevant legislation. While the 
Code does not deal with the broad environmental issues of mining and milling of radioactive ores, its provisions are to be applied by operators of mines or mills in the context of comprehensive environmental studies made with respect to any proposal to mine or mill radioactive ores. The Code takes full account of the most recent scientific and technical information. In particular, the working panel which proposed it drew on a code of practice prepared by the International Labour Organisation and the International Atomic Energy Agency. It took account of recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological Protection and discussions in expert panels convened by the International Atomic Energy Agency. It studied papers presented to, and discussions at, an International Symposium on Radiation Protection in Mining and Milling of Uranium and Thorium arranged by the World Health Organisation, the International Labour Organisation and the International Atomic Energy Agency. Account was also taken of current radiation protection standards and practices in the mining and milling of radioactive ores in other countries, notably Canada, France, South Africa and the United States of America. The working panel was aware that the International Atomic Energy Agency has in preparation a manual, with explanatory guidelines, on the management of radioactively contaminated wastes and effluents arising in the mining and milling of radioactive ores. It was also aware that the International Commission on Radiological Protection was likely, in the future, to make specific recommendations with respect to the control of radiation hazards in the mining and milling of radioactive ores. It is intended that the Code of Practice be reviewed from time to time to take account of all such further relevant scientific and technical information. 
I have so far dealt with the possible effect on health of radiation but there are other factors that will need to be considered in respect of uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers Region. Any development of the Region involving migration of people has a potential to affect the health of those people. Expansion of health services to the area will provide for adequate care of people moving to any new and expanding population area. Drinking water is to be taken from ground water supplies. Suitable methods of control are listed in the Code of Practice and continuing analyses of water samples will be undertaken. Monitoring of effluent is already undertaken in all populated areas in the Northern Territory. A continuing monitoring program will be similarly followed in the Region. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has set national emission standards for air pollutants, and for atmospheric contaminants. The Northern Territory Division will adhere to these. The area is receptive for malaria, and the possible reintroduction of this disease poses the biggest single public health risk to a developing population in the Region. The identification and appropriate treatment of people entering the area who may be carriers of the malaria parasite will be a difficult but necessary task- not only to the mining site and town centre but also to the National Park. Entry points for the area will be restricted and a screening system as operating at Gove, and Weipa in Queensland, will be introduced. 
A total occupational health program, provided by the Department of Health, in conjunction with the mining companies, unions and other relevant agencies, will be carried out. The program includes health supervision of workers, occupational hygiene, hygiene of sanitary facilities, supervision of occupational first aid service, medical records, first aid and medical emergency treatment at work and social and preventive health programs. It is planned to develop health services to a standard similar to those provided elsewhere in the Northern Territory. The Region described falls within my Department's Jabiru rural health district of its northern region. The headquarters for the district will be in the proposed regional centre township. My Department intends to provide an integrated health service complex in the new town. The health complex will provide the core of the district health service catering for the rural population, the town population and the mining population at Ranger and future mining sites. Whilst largely self-sufficient, it will be augmented by the two major Darwin hospitals which will provide specialist services and treatment for the seriously ill. The services provided are for all people in the district, including permanent residents and transients such as miners and tourists. 
Another important aspect of development in the Region will be its effect on the health of Aboriginals. This was a matter of particular concern to the Ranger Inquiry and my Department in the Northern Territory will extend its health services to Aboriginals in the Region. At present 3 1 Aboriginal health workers are employed in the Northern Territory and a further 144 are in training. As recommended by the Inquiry, suitable Aboriginals will be trained to work in conjunction with the health teams in the Ranger area. In addition, the Government will look for appropriate advice from the National Health and Medical Research Council which as the foremost health body in the country has advised it since 1937 on all aspects of public health. Honourable members may be interested to know that the National Health and Medical Research Council has already produced about 20 codes or recommendations on radiation. 
The Ranger Inquiry also recommended that legislation to control the use of radioactive substances be introduced in the Northern Territory. The Government has accepted that recommendation. A first draft of an ordinance has been produced and this will be discussed with the leader of the majority party in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly with the aim that it be passed as an ordinance. 
I believe that by following the program that I have outlined, my Department will ensure that the mining and milling of uranium can be undertaken in Australia in such a way that the health of the public, including those actually employed in the mines, will be protected. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the House contains provisions to authorise major improvements to the nursing home benefits arrangements. The financial position of patients in private nursing homes, which contain about half of the nursing home beds in Australia, has been of particular concern to the government. Many of these patients have been experiencing serious difficulties in meeting the difference between the fees charged and the nursing home benefits paid. This has been causing anxiety among nursing home patients and their relatives. It has been causing hardship for those in need of nursing home care, who are unable to obtain such care because they cannot meet the gap between the fees and benefits. 
The nursing home benefits arrangements for which the Bill provides represent a major advance in the Government's health and welfare program introducing a new era of financial security for nursing home patients. This is achieved substantially by providing significantly increased nursing home benefits. From 1 October these benefits are to be adjusted upwards annually, so that they, together with the statutory patient contribution, will cover fully the fees charged 70 per cent of patients in non-Government National Health Act nursing homes in each State. The Government believes, however, that the high cost of providing benefits for nursing home patients cannot be expected to remain almost exclusively its responsibility. It proposes therefore that hospital benefits organisations should pay the nursing home benefits in respect of patients insured for their standard table benefits while the Commonwealth continues to pay identical benefits for uninsured patients. 
The Government is sure that most Australians will welcome this extension of the principle that those who can afford to contribute to the cost of their health care should do so. Unfortunately, since I announced the improved arrangements proposed by the Government, certain people in the community have seized the opportunity, presented by the winter parliamentary recess, to launch a reprehensible scare campaign. This created a great deal of uncertainty among nursing home patients and the community in general as to the financial assistance nursing home patients would receive in the future. Out of my concern for the welfare of nursing home patients, I have written a letter to all patients to reassure them that the proposed changes to the nursing home arrangements will advantage them as patients. I trust that they have all received those letters and that they are now reassured. Health insurers generally have shown a willingness to extend their benefits to include the payment of the proposed nursing home benefits. This was to be expected for it is a logical extension for the private health insurance system, which aims to provide cover for every ill Australian whether the ill person be in a doctor's consulting room, a hospital or a nursing home. 
I wish now to turn to the main provisions in the Bill. The Bill amends both the National Health Act 1953 and the Nursing Homes Assistance Act 1974. The amendments to the National Health Act are contained in Part II of the Bill and it is to these provisions that I would first draw the attention of honourable members. The Bill provides for the payment of a basic Commonwealth nursing home benefit in respect of uninsured patients in National Health Act nursing homes. The rates of this benefit vary depending upon the State or Territory in which the nursing home is situated and are set out in clause 1 1. Successive governments and this Government consider that it is reasonable to expect most patients in nursing homes to make a contribution towards their maintenance as they are usually long-stay patients. The present benefits arrangements applying to non-government nursing homes give effect to this principle in that, where the fee is lower than the combination of the patient contribution and the benefit, the benefit is reduced to ensure that the patient contribution as specified remains payable. This principle of reducing the benefit thus requiring the patient to make a specified contribution has been retained in the Bill. 
In addition, the Bill provides for the payment of a Commonwealth 'extensive care' benefit for uninsured patients in National Health Act nursing homes who require extensive care. The criteria for approval as an extensive care patient is the same as that presently provided for intensive nursing home care. The only change is in terminology and this has been made as the current usage of 'intensive care' for the term 'intensive nursing home care' has caused some confusion in practice. The Bill provides for the rate of the extensive care benefit to be $6 a day. This is twice the level of the intensive nursing home care benefit, which has not been increased since it was introduced in 1969. 
As mentioned previously, the benefit levels have been determined so that the benefits, together with the statutory minimum patient contribution, currently $6.70 a day, cover fully the fees charged to 70 per cent of the patients in non-government National Health Act nursing homes in each State. The benefit levels will be reviewed annually on this 70 per cent basis and the Bill provides for them to be increased by regulations. As I have mentioned, the Government proposes that the hospital benefits organisations should pay benefits for nursing home patients, insured for their standard table benefits, equivalent to the Commonwealth benefits for uninsured patients. These benefits will be payable in respect of insured patients in nursing homes approved under the National Health Act and the Nursing Homes Assistance Act including insured repatriation patients in those nursing homes. The Bill provides that it is a condition of registration of hospital benefits organisations that they provide these benefits. It further provides that hospital benefits organisations may debit all nursing home benefits to their reinsurance accounts thus enabling liability for the benefits to be shared between the organisations. 
As nursing home patients generally have very limited means, the practice has been adopted by nursing home proprietors of deducting the Commonwealth and fund nursing home benefits from the patients' fees and charging the patients the balance. The proprietors have claimed the benefits and the benefits have been paid directly to them. The Government recognises the importance of these arrangements to the patients and the proprietors and the Bill requires that the practice be followed in relation to the new benefits. Accordingly, it provides that it is a condition of approval of a nursing home that a nursing home proprietor deduct the benefits payable from the fees and where this is done the Commonwealth and fund benefits are to be paid to the proprietor. The possibility cannot be ignored, however, that isolated cases may arise where special circumstances exist which result in a proprietor not deducting the benefits. In such cases the Bill provides that the Permanent Head may direct that any Commonwealth benefits payable be paid to the person charged the fees. If the benefits have already been paid to the proprietor, they may be recovered and paid to that person. Where fund benefits are payable in such circumstances they are to be paid to the proprietor, but it is a condition of approval of the nursing home that he pay an amount equal to the benefits to the person charged the fees. 
As the nursing home proprietor is responsible for claiming the nursing home benefits, it will be necessary for him to ascertain whether patients are insured in order to determine whether to claim Commonwealth or fund benefits. Accordingly, the Bill provides for it to be a condition of approval of nursing homes that the proprietor use all reasonable endeavours to ascertain whether patients are insured. The Government anticipates, however, that there will be a small number of cases where, following reasonable endeavours, it is not possible for a nursing home proprietor to ascertain whether a patient is insured. It is vital to the patient in such cases that benefits are able to be paid. Consequently, the Bill provides that in such cases, following an application from the proprietor, the Permanent Head of any Department may determine that the patient be treated as being insured and as a result Commonwealth benefits would be paid. The Bill also provides that should fund benefits be payable to a proprietor in cases where Commonwealth benefits have been paid, the Commonwealth benefits are to be repaid. 
I wish to turn now to Part III of the Bill, which amends the Nursing Homes Assistance Act 1 974. By virtue of agreements made under this Act between proprietors of non-profit nursing homes and the Commonwealth, the Commonwealth meets the approved deficits of such homes. For uninsured nursing home patients in deficit financed homes existing arrangements will continue. However, the Bill imposes the same conditions of approval on these nursing homes, in relation to insured patients, as are imposed in relation to nursing homes approved under the National Health Act, to which I have referred. Further, it provides for the agreements to require proprietors to charge insured patients, other than insured compensation cases, an additional fee equal to the nursing home fund benefits payable. The Commonwealth will, of course, continue to meet the approved deficits of these nursing homes. The proprietor will deduct this fee from the patient's account and receive the benefit from the hospital benefits organisation. The resultant increase in fees revenue will reduce the deficits to be met by the Commonwealth. 
The Bill also provides for insured patients in these nursing homes to be approved as extensive care patients so that they are able to attract the appropriate fund benefits. Under the revised nursing home benefits arrangements the existing controls relating to admissions, fees and growth in non-government nursing homes will continue. I am confident that honourable members will appreciate the great value of the provisions in the Bill to nursing home patients and their relatives. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937 I present the report of the National Health and Medical Research Council on Medical Research Projects 1975. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission Act 1975 I present on behalf of the Minister for the Northern Territory the annual report of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Australian Institute of Marine Science Act 1972 I present the annual report of the Council of the Institute of Marine Science for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Under the Act, capital grants totalling $8.4m have been approved with funds being made available to meet commitments when they mature. Expenditure on capital projects to 30 June 1977 amounted to $2.1m, while $S.3m has been appropriated for expenditure in 1977-78. No new projects were approved in 1 976-77. 
) See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
See attached schedule. 
It is not proposed to make any new grants in 1977-78; progress payments will be made on approved projects as they become due. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Under the administrative arrangements applicable to the Community Health Program, primary responsibility for governmental supervision of projects such as the Liverpool Women's Health Centre rests with the State health authoritiesin this case, the Health Commission of New South Wales. Official inquiries were made concerning certain allegations relating to conduct of this Centre. If the Health Commission of New South Wales has no reason for concern, I see no necessity for my personal inspection of the Centre. 
Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health (Question No. 1134) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information requested is not available. 
However, as indicated in answer to Question No. 611 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  2 June 1977, p. 2575) it was estimated that, with the change from a means test to an income test, some 50,000 pensioners were receiving a higher pension than they would have been entitled to under the new income-test. Special provision was made in the legislation to save pension being reduced in these cases. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1974-75-76; 1975-76-58; 1976-77-47. 
Overseas vessels arriving at Cockatoo Island are not subjected to full inspection; this is not considered necessary. AH vessels were boarded by a quarantine medical officer. 
A Quarantine Medical Officer and, since January 1977, a Quarantine Assistant. 
Senior Constable Cole (from January to March 1977) Senior Constable Devereaux (March 1977 to date) both being police officers. The appointment of part-time Quarantine Assistants was not considered necessary until January 1977. Prior to 1 977 the Harbour Master assisted by advising ships' masters of quarantine requirements. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The principal programs which are administered by my Department and can readily be identified in monetary terms in the Electoral Divisions of (a) Chifley, (b) Macarthur, (c) Macquarie, (d) Mitchell, (e) Parramatta, (f) Prospect and (g) Werriwa are: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is provided in the following table. The information is current as at 3 1 July 1977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The principal programs which are administered by my Department and can readily be attributed in monetary terms to the electoral division of Prospect are: 
The question of the funding of the school dental program was discussed at the Premiers Conference in June. The Commonwealth Government in this year's Budget is making available this financial year 14.8 per cent more funds than it did last financial year to assist the States with the community health program. Surely nobody could argue that the States should not make a higher contribution towards the conduct of those programs within their own States. The former Government introduced the community health program and tried to involve the community in the program. It obviously showed an inclination towards asking the States to accept a progressively greater degree of involvement in the program. 
As regards hospital cost sharing, the Government is in no way retreating from its obligation to meet SO per cent of the net operating costs of hospitals, but we have imposed certain accounting disciplines upon the States to ensure that there is proper accountability for the expenditures which they are incurring in respect of hospital administration. We have seen in this country an escalation of health costs, rising at the rate of 30 per cent to 40 per cent per annum. We have seen the health component of the gross national product increase from about S.8 per cent in 1971 to about 7.5 per cent in 1976. There has not been any indication, in spite of the rise in costs in the health care field, that the condition of the health of the Australian people has increased one iota. So we are determined to ensure that in those areas in which we are involved there is proper accountability, particularly in respect of hospital operation costs. 
Three State Premiers have been in touch with either me or the Prime Minister seeking to increase hospital bed charges in their States. We are not prepared at this stage to increase hospital bed charges because it would be inflationary and would disturb the very sensible Medibank arrangements that we made as from 1 October last year. I want to lay at rest any speculation that the Commonwealth Government is trying to force the States to increase hospital bed charges. The States are trying to impose that responsibility upon us so that we would be left with the odium if we were silly enough to say yes. 
I thank the honourable member for Franklin for that question. I am very much aware of the notices to which he referred and also of the activities of at least one other fund which has been indulging itself in an extravagant scare campaign that has been causing great anxiety and suffering amongst those people in the community who are sick and in need. I think that those activities should be deplored. I know that honourable members on both sides of the House have received hundreds of letters as a result of the campaign that has been conducted. If the funds have reserves to use in this manner, one wonders whether they should be investigated. I am also concerned about the report that the Government is intending to increase bed charges in the public hospitals. I have said this morning that the Government has no intention of increasing bed charges and thus premiums for private insurance. The Government has no intention to abolish the $16 a day subsidy to private hospitals. The Budget has made that abundantly clear. 
The Government has no intention of withdrawing subsidies for private nursing home patients. In fact the Government has allowed for a greater increase in benefits that will apply to nursing home patients because it has a real concern for the care of aged people in private nursing homes, government nursing homes and charitable or non-profit nursing homes. As a result of the changes that we have made, nursing home patients in this country have entered a new era of security. They certainly have, because we have reduced the gap - 
We have done something that the honourable member was not capable of achieving while he was in government. Let me conclude by saying that the changes we have made should increase premiums by no more than 50c a week, but we are looking to funds to absorb that increase by using some of their reserves where it is possible for them to do so. We would expect funds to use their reserves and resources for legitimate exercises rather than for trying to scare the people of the community with a lot of ill-founded rumours. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to enable action to be taken to give effect to a decision of the Government announced in the Budget that all privately insured patients pay for pathology services provided by the Commonwealth Health Laboratories. The Commonwealth Department of Health operates 14 pathology laboratories throughout Australia. In addition the Capital Territory Health Commission operates laboratories in the Australian Capital Territory. At present these laboratories do not charge for the services they provide. As a result of the substantial changes made to the health insurance arrangements since October 1976, the Government considers that this 'no charge' policy is inappropriate as a significant proportion of the population is now covered by private medical insurance. The 'no charge' policy is inconsistent with the Government's approach to universal health insurance and that is that those who can afford to pay for health services should do so while those on lowest incomes and most pensioners are entitled to medical and hospital services at no cost to them. In addition the existing laboratory policy creates an unfair source of competition for private pathology practitioners operating in the same geographic area. 
The pathology services of the Commonwealth Health Laboratories are pan of the diagnostic services for medical practitioners and hospitals for which the Governor-General has provided under section 9 (1) (b) of the National Health Act 1953. The section would support charges being raised against the medical practitioner or hospital for pathology work done in respect of a patient, but does not extend to allowing the patient to be billed directly for those services. The Bill, by enabling the services to be provided directly to the patient, will also enable the charges to be raised directly against the patient. It is proposed that charges will be made to private patients of hospitals; privately insured outpatients of recognised hospitals; and privately insured patients referred to the laboratories by medical practitioners. It is intended that the charges will be introduced from 1 October 1977 and will be at the level of medical benefits for pathology services as listed in the current Medical Benefits Schedule. Patients will be able to recover the cost of the service from their medical benefits fund. 
Following passage of the Bill, the GovernorGeneral will be asked to make an appropriate Order-in-Council under the section to impose the charges which it is expected will result in a direct saving to taxpayers of $5.3m in a full year and $3.3m for the financial year 1977-78.I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
-On 10 March 1977 the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  sought information about substantial reports of unauthorised landings of foreign fishermen on the north-west coast of Australia. My answer  (Hansard  p. 1264), which referred to events that had occurred between 1 July 1975 and 10 March 1977, was not published until 26 April 1977. I now list for the sake of completeness, further information provided by my Department relating to landings that took place off the Kimberley coast between 10 March, the date of the question and 26 April 1977, the date of publication of the answer. 24-30 March 1977 
Following reports of foreign fishing vessels in the King Sound area, seven Indonesian vessels were intercepted and boarded by officers of HMAS  Advance.  The vessels were either beached or anchored on or adjacent to Tyrer, Mermaid or Margaret Islands in King Sound. The vessels were boarded, the masters reprimanded and the vessels taken in tow by  Advance  with the intention of release 27 miles northnortheast of Cape Leveque light. No livestock was on board any vessel and there was no evidence of vermin apart from cockroaches. Animal quarantine authorities in Perth and in the area concerned were alerted and the matter kept under review. Follow-up action by quarantine authorities was not considered necessary. 26 March 1977 
An Indonesian fishing vessel was intercepted by HMAS  Advance  in the vicinity of Parry Harbour about five miles south-west of Cape Bougainville. Footprints were located on shore suggesting that a landing had occurred. No fowl or other livestock were located on board. Animal quarantine authorities were alerted but decided that follow-up action was not required. 22 April 1977 
A report was received on 22 April that a foreign fishing vessel was beached at Viney Island 20 miles north-east of Koolan Island. Quarantine authorities at Perth and in the local area were alerted. HMAS  Advance  intercepted what is believed to be the same vessel on 28 April high and dry on Sunday Island in King Sound. No fowl or livestock was reported on board. The vessel was refloated at high tide, escorted clear of the declared fishing zone and the master reprimanded. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A total of 9,589 reports were received by the Australian Registry of Adverse Reactions to Drugs during the period 1 972-1 976. General and specialist medical practitioners contributed 4,253 of these, while the remainder were received from hospitals, pharmacists, dentists, pharmaceutical manufacturers and from patients themselves. The following table provides the figures on a yearly basis. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The pilot survey was carried out over a two month period in order to determine any difficulties which might arise as a result of the possible introduction of an area monitoring project and to establish the expected workload of such a project. Two group general practices and their associated pharmacies as well as the pharmacy of one of Canberra's major hospitals were involved in the survey. 
No. The computer processing of the seven thousand patient drug use sheets is almost complete and an analysis of the survey will be available shortly. The survey was designed primarily for Departmental use although the results will be published if it is found that the data will be of value to medical practitioners. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The average production cost per issue of the last four issues was $8,890- an annual total or $35,560. 
The average distribution cost per issue of the last four issues was $8,4 1 5- an annual total of $33,660. 
27,000. 
Doctors are the major recipients- approximately 1 9,000 are on the mailing list 
(a) One Journalist, Grade A is employed to write, edit, design and supervise production of the journal (the same journalist also undertakes other duties in connection with other Departmental publications). 
One Clerical Assistant, Grade 4 is involved in the updating of the computerised mailing list. This task occupies approximately eight working days per issue. Actual distribution is arranged by the printer. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The number of Class A and Class B widows' pensions payable to women classified as deserted wives as at 30 June of each year from 1 972 to 1 977 is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2)1 have been aware for some dme now of the continuing and misleading campaign being undertaken by the newspaper concerned in support of  Mr Vlastimil  Brych, an unqualified practitioner in the Cook Islands who claims to be an expert on cancer. Largely because of this campaign, I have issued three Press statements since early May warning Australians of the possible dangers involved. 
My Press statement of 3 1 May referred to the totally misleading impression, fostered by the newspaper in question, that the Australian Government recognised  Mr Brych  's qualifications. I pointed out at that dme that the Health Insurance Act provides for payment of benefits for expenses incurred by Australian residents temporarily overseas in respect of Schedule medical services rendered by 'a person authorised to practise as a medical practitioner under the law of the place where the service was rendered'. The Act therefore relates to the registration, not qualifications. 

 Mr Brych does not possess any medical qualifications and has been the subject of a long and detailed investigation by various medical and other authorities in New Zealand. Despite numerous opportunities to produce facts or figures to substantiate his alleged cancer treatment procedures and results,  Mr Brych  has failed to produce any supporting evidence for his claims. It is not the intention of the Government to give false hopes to unfortunate terminal cancer victims seeking unproven therapeutic regimens in the Cook Islands. 

 Mr Brych was registered in the Cook Islands as a medical practitioner in March 1977 following an amendment to that country's Medical Act specifically designed to permit his registration. Under the existing health insurance legislation therefore, services specified in the Schedule that are rendered by  Mr Brych  attract medical benefits at the present dme. 
There is no relationship between the payment of benefits and 'recognition' of  Mr Brych  's qualifications. As pointed out previously, the existing legislation gives no option but to pay benefits for Schedule services rendered in the Cook Islands by  Mr Brych. 
The Government has not approved the unrestricted release of blood supplies to  Mr Brych  for patients temporarily residing in the Cook Islands. The Minister of Health for the Cook Islands has not complied with the necessary conditions to permit a once-only assistance, on humanitarian grounds, for the five Australian patients for whom assistance had previously been sought. 
For further detailed information on the Cook Islands and  Mr Brych  I would refer the member for Batman to my Press statements of 12 May, 3 1 May and 8 August 1977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Government intends to continue its support for the development of the School Dental Scheme though the proportion of expenditure to be met by the Commonwealth has been reduced so as to spread the financial responsibility for the Scheme in a more equitable manner between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The estimated date for provision of free dental care to all eligible primary school children depends on progress made by the States in the development of the Scheme. However on the basis of current development, primary school children in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania will be covered by the Scheme by 1982, while in the other States these children will be covered in the period 1985-90. 
To date 424 dental therapists have graduated under the Scheme from Australian dental therapy schools. 
Some 650 trainee dental therapists are presently enrolled in Australian dental therapy schools. 
Yes. However this figure is being kept under review in the light of experience and changes in the dental health of children. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) New South Wales-Newcastle, Westmead, Sylvania, and Shellharbour; Victoria- St Kilda Road (Melbourne); Queensland- Yeronga, Stafford and Holland Park ( Brisband), Townsville; South Australia- Hindmarsh Square and Somerton Park (Adelaide); Western Australia Mt Henry and Warwick (Perth); Tasmania- Hobart; (b)No new dental therapy schools were under construction. 
(a) As at 30 June 1977, 650 students were attending the abovementioned schools; (b) The present dental therapy schools have the capacity to accommodate 784 students each year. 
About 2,300. 
Committee of Inquiry into CSIRO: Secretariat  (Question No. 1189) 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on the Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the National Health Amendment Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Problems of definition would need to be resolved and considerable development work undertaken before reliable estimates could be made of the cost of including acute psychiatric hospitals under the Medibank cost-sharing arrangements. However, based on the very limited information available to my Department it would appear that the cost to the Commonwealth may be of the order of $25m a year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Data for the last 10 years are not available on a comparable basis. Data for six years are shown in the following table. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1970) 24; (1971) 29; (1972) 22; (1973) 14; (1974) 30; ( 1975 ) 33; ( 1976) 7; ( 1 977) 27. 
Yes. In the two-year period from 1 July 1975 to 30 June 1977 the number of tests and examinations carried out by the Commonwealth Pathology Laboratories increased by 48 per cent, (from 4.54 million to 6.73 million). 
Yes. In the two-year period from 1 July 1975 to 30 June 1977 the total establishment of the Laboratories increased by 40 (from 549 to 589). 
In general, the Laboratories have had difficulties in meeting workload demands due to staff shortages. However, much has been done to offset this problem by the increased use of automated equipment in the Laboratories and, where appropriate, by the referral of certain tests to other laboratories. The established services normally provided by the Commonwealth Pathology Laboratories have been maintained at a high standard. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Section 1 30 of the Health Insurance Act 1973 requires the observance of secrecy by officers acquiring information in the course of the performance of their duties or in the exercise of their powers or functions under that Act. This provision, insofar as the payment of medical benefits by the Health Insurance Commission is concerned, applies in respect of information in claims by persons covered by Medibank Standard. It also applies in respect of information associated with hospital and other payments made by the Commission and authorised by the Act. 
The question of privacy under Commonwealth legislation has been referred to the Law Reform Commission. The matter of privacy of individuals insured with private health insurance organisations registered under the National Health Act, including Medibank Private, will be examined in the light of findings of the Law Reform Commission. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Total Payments made to the States under the Hospital Cost-Sharing Arrangements 
in reply-I thank all honourable members who contributed to the debate this afternoon and this evening on the National Health Acts Amendment Bill and the National Health Amendment Bill. I assure the House that I firmly believe that this legislation, particularly the Bill relating to nursing homes, ushers in a new era of security to nursing home patients and to the aged and sick aged who have to seek refuge in nursing homes throughout Australia. It is generally accepted by most sections of the community as being legislation of that nature. The exception is a small handful of health insurance funds, some of which have attempted to panic and mislead patients and contributors into believing that the Government was removing its assistance to nursing home patients throughout Australia. I was so concerned about this- I say this quite genuinely and we are not on the air- that I took the trouble to write to all patients in every nursing home in this country to assure them that they would not be having their benefits reduced but rather would be having them increased and adjusted annually to provide 70 per cent fee coverage in each State. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  obviously doubt the goodwill and intention of this Government and if it is feasible to amend this Bill at some future time I will take steps to see that it is amended so that there will be no doubt in anybody's mind about the clear intention of the Government. I will ensure that the Bill inscribes the intention of Cabinet when it made this decision. There has been so much done in one way or another to aged people in nursing homes throughout Australia as a result of inflation and acts of bad faith by governments that perhaps it would be wise to inscribe the intention in this legislation. I would not like to see aged people suffer insecurity because of doubts that we express in this place or doubts that might be expressed by health insurance funds and others for reasons best known to them. I will certainly discuss that point with the draftsman to see whether it is possible for this legislation to reflect the decision by the Government resulting from the surveys by the Medibank Review Committee and by my Department. 
It is not a question of caving in but if it is a question of trying to give a sense of security, which I hope honourable members opposite would like to see, to people who are sick or aged in nursing homes around Australia, yes, we will give consideration to it and if it is possible we will see that it is done. The honourable member for Prospect talked about the delay in introducing the arrangement which was announced in June. We said then that benefits were to flow from 1 October. It was understood by all concerned that a period of time would need to elapse to enable the health insurance funds to adjust their table of benefits and to adjust premiums if' they had to be adjusted. Also it was necessary for a period of time to elapse to enable my Department to establish new levels of benefits based on surveys that needed to be conducted in each State and to arrive at the formula of 70 per cent coverage of fees of private nursing homes and homes registered under the National Health Act. As the honourable member for Prospect conceded, this would ensure that of the order of 83 per cent to 90 per cent of nursing home patients m each State, including those in private nursing homes, in deficit funded nursing homes and in State government nursing, homes would be covered by the benefits received from either the health insurance funds or the Government. 
I think the honourable member will agree that it is from 1 October, to be annually adjusted. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  raised a very good point and if it is possible to adjust the fees of nursing homes concurrently with benefits we will endeavour to do so. 
We should bear in mind that the fees are adjusted according to the level of wage movements. 
-No. We are not freezing the ruddy fees. That is something that I think the fleas of the Opposition would like to do. Of course we are not freezing fees. What utter rot! 
There was a price freeze in all States for a specified period and we acceded to it at the time, but that freeze has since been lifted. There is no way that we will take action which causes disruption in this area. If it is possible we will try to get concurrent adjustment for the major increase in the year. Whatever might be said in this Parliament, never before has there been a clear undertaking to nursing home patients in this country that they will be covered to die extent of 70 per cent of their fees in private nursing homes throughout the Commonwealth and that the fees will be adjusted each year to ensure that that level is maintained. If it is possible to enshrine that in legislation we will do it. That is a clear undertaking to people who may feel insecure because of the tactics of a few private health insurance funds and members of the Opposition who may have a political motive in trying to belittle the Government's genuine attempt to overcome a difficult problem for people. 
The honourable member for Prospect dealt with the costs of nursing home care in Victoria In Victoria staffing requirements are higher than they are in other States and proprietors can take extensive care patients usually without having to increase staff. Therefore proprietors in Victoria admit a far higher percentage of extensive care patients than do proprietors in other States, but as a result of those higher staffing requirements their fees are higher. Therefore, in order to maintain the 70 per cent coverage, the benefits necessarily have to be higher. As the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  so wisely said in his contribution, if States choose to establish very high levels of staffing and requirements one wonders how long we in the Commonwealth area can continue to meet the costs which their standards impose upon the system. Of course, in discussions with the Health Ministers we hope to reach some uniform approach between the States into the future because there is an irregularity in that respect 
At the present time operating costs, other than for wages, are claimed by proprietors only on an annual basis. I refer to thos matter again because my advice is that wages represent some 75 per cent of total operating costs of nursing homes. Increases in fees are granted as award wage increases arise. Because wage costs represent such a large percentage of total costs it is only fair that proprietors be given increases in fees as wages rise. That raises a real problem with which we are faced in trying to achieve the mechanism which the honourable member for Murray has attempted to get the Government to adopt. What he has said makes sense. If there were a mechanism which we could achieve so that every time there was a substantial increase in fees to meet an increase in wage costs, then we could move the benefits accordingly in our yearly adjustment. If we can achieve some sort of an arrangement which meets that criteria, we will try to do that in consultation with the association which represents the homes. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  also raised several points in relation to the annual adjustment mechanism. I think I have answered him in that respect. He criticised the Government for regarding this Bill as the logical extension of an insurance system for the sick. I do not share his cynicism in this matter. If a person is sick for one reason or another or if he is sick because of age, I cannot see any reason why insurance, either insurance which is backed by the Government or insurance from a private health insurance fund, should not cover that requirement. Under our system there is a choice. People can choose to insure themselves privately for doctor of choice or they can remain with Medibank by paying a levy. If they are pensioners with health benefit cards they get the Medibank cover for nil. Under the new taxation arrangements a further 225,000 people in Australia will not be paying tax. Therefore most of those people will not be paying any Medibank levy whatsoever. Those people in the lower range of income will not have to make any contribution at all towards their health insurance or for cover in nursing homes. I think it is fallacious to say that this system imposes a burden upon the poorer sections of the Australian community. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  mentioned that in his electorate there was a boarding house type of accommodation caring for the aged. He wondered whether benefits could flow to those people. If they were sick aged, they would probably come within the range of some future policy adjustment in the health area. But if it is hostel accommodation in a social security sense, that would be a matter for the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  But 1 take on board the suggestion made by the honourable member. He also made a plea to adjust fees and benefits concurrently so that there would not be disadvantage to nursing home patients in the event of regular fee increases before benefits had increased. I give him an assurance that there is no attempt by the Government to impose upon the Victorian Government or, for that matter, upon any State government arbitrary controls over the contributions they expect from their patients in State nursing homes. 
State nursing homes are exempt from fee control. Under the existing legislation the Bill does not require the State to charge a standard fee. In discussions with the States my officers have encouraged them to charge the standard fee. However, it is not a compulsory requirement because we can see no good reason why, in State government nursing homes, patients should not be charged the statutory patient contribution as they are in deficit funded or in other nursing homes because people have to make a contribution out of their pension for their own lodging. Naturally, nursing home patients in nursing homes other than State nursing homes question why patients in State nursing homes should be exempt from paying the statutory patient contribution. We are trying to get some uniformity between the homes. We expect the States to try to co-operate where they will. 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  talked about this program costing patients more. I assure him that there is no way that this system will cost nursing home patients more unless they are in the higher income range and are contributing towards private health insurance. Most of the nursing home patients, of course, are not privately insured. Therefore they will not be making a greater personal contribution. We have quite a lot of people in the higher income area with fairly high capital assets in their own name or in their family's name who have chosen to insure privately. I have not witnessed any objection on their part to paying a premium for private health insurance because that is their choice for doctor of choice. Whether they are wise to do this is a matter for them to decide. But generally patients in nursing homes will not be asked to contribute more. They will receive far greater benefits from the Government or from the fund and therefore will receive much greater security. 
In concluding the debate I again thank those who have participated for the contributions they have made. I again give an assurance to the House and to nursing nome patients that there is a clear intention on the part of the Government to bring about a new sense of security to nursing home patients and to their families throughout Australia as a result of the amendments which we have made. We have given a clear undertaking that under this legislation we will cover 70 per cent of private nursing home beds in each State and the benefits will be adjusted on an annual basis to ensure that that ratio is maintained. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Gollin Holdings Limited, was approved as an organisation under Part IV of the Health Insurance Act to receive a health program grant in respect of the 1975-76 financial year for the medical practitioner employed. The Company did not apply for a continuation of the grant in respect of the 1976-77 financial year. I understand that Gollin Holdings Limited and related companies are being investigated by  Mr John  Spender, Q.C. 
A condition of a health program grant is that an approved organisation is required to forward to my Department by 31 October, or such later date as is approved, certified audited accounts for the preceding budget period ending 30 June, which show the operation receipts and payments for the activities of the organisation which have attracted a health program grant. My Department requested audited accounts in respect of the 1975-76 financial year. However, the Personnel Manager of Gollin Holdings Ltd, advised my Department that the medical practitioner was retrenched on 30 June 1976 due to the financial position of the Company and that it was not possible for Gollin Holdings Ltd to supply audited statements in respect of the 1975-76 financial year because the provisional liquidators would not approve the cost involved to undertake such an audit. He also advised my Department that the health program grant approved was used exclusively to onset the medical practitioner's salary and expenses. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Sister Paulina Pilkington, B.A. (Hons.), Dip. N.Ed., Ph.D. (M.A.C.Q.), F.C.N., F.C.N.A., Director of Nursing, Department of Health.  Dr B.  L. Hennessy, M.B., B.S., B.Sc. (Med.), M.A.N.Z.C.P., D.P.M., First Assistant Director-General, Health Services Division, Department of Health.  Mr H.  West, B.Com., A.A.S.A., A.C.I.S. First Assistant Director-General, Medical Insurance Services Division, Department of Health. 
(b)  Dr M.  Livens, B.S.C., Ph.D. (W.A.), Dean, School of Health Sciences, Western Australian Institute of Technology.  Mr J.  E. McClelland, F.H.A., A.C.A., Executive Director, Geelong Hospital. Prof. G. Palmer, B5c, M.Ec., Ph.D., (Lond.), Head, School of Health Administration, University of N.S.W. Miss M. Patten, S.R.N., B.A., Federal Secretary, Royal Australian Nursing Federation.  Dr R.  Wall, M.B., B.S., (Melb.), B.Sc, (Melb.), M.R.A.C.P., D.C.H., General Practitioner, Launceston, Tasmania. 

 Mr C. A. Nettle, M.B.E., LL.B., F.A.S.A.,  Deputy  Director-General, Department of Health.  Mr M.  Carroll, B.Com., A.A.U.Q., First Assistant Director-General, Insurance, Hospitals and Nursing Homes Division, Department of Health.  Mr L.  B. Holgate, B.Com., F.A.S.A., First Assistant Director-General, Policy and Planning Division, Department of Health. 
The Commission has established four Working Parties. These Working Parties will be assisted, as necessary, by sub-committees of experts to be appointed on an 'ad hoc' basis for specific short term tasks. 
The membership and terms of reference of the Working Parties and current Advisory Committees are: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The Department of Social Security has a central library in its head office in Canberra and a branch library in its state headquarters in each of the six Australian State capital cities. The main purpose of each library is to provide a daily information service for all staff and to keep the Department's professional and administrative officers up to date with developments and new thinking in their respective areas both in Australia and overseas, e.g. in the fields of ADP, social work, homes for the aged, rehabilitation and income security matters. 
The information in the form requested is not available. The following information is provided: 
Items added to Departmental collections: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) The judgment handed down in the High Court related specifically to the case of Karen Green. In the light of this judgment the Director-General of Social Services made a determination on the claim of Karen Green on 27 May 1977  (see Hansard  30 May 1977, pages 2096-2097). 
to (4) When issuing his determination on the Karen Green claim the Director-General stated that if any other applicant sought a review of his claim a review would be made. A small number of applicants sought a review of their claims and most have been dealt with. A decision in the remaining outstanding cases will be made at an early date. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is a follows: 
Under the Nursing Homes Assistance Act the Commonwealth Government meets the approved operating deficits of eligible non-profit nursing homes which enter into an agreement with the Government for this purpose. The numbers of nursing homes which received payments under the provisions of this Act in each State during 1 976-77 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Capital Expenditure ($m) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The Health Insurance Act provides for medical benefits to be paid for services rendered by legally qualified medical practitioners. A number of services attracting benefits are listed in the Medical Benefits Schedule, and four of them result in the termination of pregnancy. I have had many representations, in fact I have had thousands of representations, from people throughout the community, objecting to being party to paying benefits for such procedures unless the mother has had an abortion because of the state of her health. As a consequence I have had examinations made to see whether it is feasible to try to determine the reasons why abortions are carried out. This does raise some very serious problems relating to the privacy of the individual. It does raise some very difficult problems for my Department and for the various health insurance funds. 
I would not like to see a situation develop in which people had to declare, for one reason or another, why a medical service was provided. However, I have asked my Department to examine the whole area to ascertain whether there are ways and means of ensuring that benefits are payable only to mothers who have had an abortion on proper medical grounds. I also have asked my Department to refer this matter to the Medical Benefits Schedule Revision Committee, which is a professional body charged with the responsibility of recommending to the Minister any changes that should be made to the existing Medical Benefits Schedule. I expect a report from that Committee in the very near future. I give the honourable member an assurance that I am concerned about this matter. I know that certain members of the Government also are concerned about it. However, there are also people in the community who would not like to see my Department or the health insurance funds engage in a witch hunt to ascertain why abortions were carried out. There could well be a way to get through this difficult problem, and I hope that we will find it. 
I have seen the article to which the honourable member referred. The author suggested that alternative approaches have been developed which will assist people to identify the pressures imposed upon them and to discover those of their reactions which lead to maladjustment and so on. Of course, this is quite a new area of consideration and one that is well worthy of support. According to my departmental advisers there is sufficient justification to give very sympathetic consideration to an application for any funds that might be made available to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission or, indeed, to the National Health and Medical Research Council for a pilot project to test the general relevance of these techniques as an alternative form of health management. 
The honourable member will be interested to know that the Government is interested in developing alternative health delivery schemes and alternative systems of treatment. One of the major policy thrusts which we are adopting is to test these out on a pilot basis, to monitor the progress of their development and to evaluate them at the conclusion of the test. Certainly,  Dr Mitchell's  suggestions in these areas are well worthy of a pilot testing. I hope that the National Health and Medical Research Council or the Hospitals and Health Services Commission will give favourable consideration to any application he might make. 
-I suppose that if we followed that logic to its ultimate the honourable gentleman would say that I had a conflict of interest in that I administer the National Health Act and am responsible for its operation, whilst at the same time the Health Insurance Commission is responsible to me as the Minister. I do not accept the point raised by the honourable member. I have had no complaint from any of the health insurance funds which have been registered according to the conditions and provisions of the National Health Act. The honourable member raises a very interesting point but one that I do not take very seriously. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) Potato growers have from time to time expressed concern about disease of potatoes entering Australia by means of imported potatoes. 
The quarantine conditions under which potatoes are allowed into Australia have been developed, inter alia, to exclude potato cyst nematodes, black wart, Colorado beetle and ring rot. These conditions are rigidly enforced. The importation of potatoes is not permitted for general sowing purposes or sale in an unprocessed state. The only potatoes permitted entry are small lots for sowing under rigid quarantine control, and quantities that are used for processing into such products as frozen chips and potato crisps. Potatoes for processing can only be imported from areas free from the abovementioned pests. The processing must be carried out under quarantine supervision in registered premises in a metropolitan area where disposal of soil and wastes can be controlled. 
(a) Potatoes are not imported from areas where potato cyst nematodes (including golden nematode) are known to exist, except in small lots that are to be sown under rigid quarantine control. This excludes potatoes from European sources. New Zealand potatoes are only permitted entry if they originate in areas which have been shown by detailed survey to be free of potato cyst nematodes and where potatoes are grown in a rotation which ensures that potatoes are only grown in a given area once in four years. 
Potatoes are not imported from areas where black wart occurs, except in small lots that are to be sown under rigid quarantine control. This excludes potatoes from Europe, North and South America, South Africa, India, China and Nepal. Black wart has been found only in domestic properties in Invercargill in the South Island of New Zealand, but potatoes are not exported to Australia from the southern part of the South Island. 
Potatoes are not imported from areas where Colarado beetle occurs, except in small lots that are to be sown under rigid quarantine control. The pest occurs in North America and Europe. 
Potatoes are not imported from areas where ring rot occurs, except in small lots that are to be sown under rigid quarantine control. The disease occurs in North and South America, Europe and Asia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) 19 as at 31 July 1977, (b) 19 as at 3 1 July 1977, (c) 4 as at 31 July 1977. 
and (3) The number of approved beds in each home as at 31 July 1977 and the weekly charges for patients at each home on (a) 1 January 1976, (b) 1 January 1977 and (c) 3 1 July 1 977 are shown in the following table: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Details of expenditure by electoral divisions are not maintained by my Department. 
However, some recent expenditure under certain major programs, updating information provided to the honourable member on 19 April 1977, is available as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Once again it 'is a question of choice. If pensioner patients want to insure themselves for doctor of choice they can do so by taking out a subsidised hospital only insurance which will cover them for a choice of doctor in a hospital or for nursing home benefits. It is a question of choice for the nursing home patients. I am not aware of any great confusion amongst nursing home patients at this point. I was aware of a great deal of confusion amongst nursing home patients during the winter recess because of a campaign that was launched by some private health funds which were trying to make a case that the Government would abandon subsidies to private nursing homes and nursing home patients. That was not true. During the winter recess I announced that the Government would provide higher benefits for nursing home patients and that the health insurance funds would be responsible for paying the benefits to those patients who were insured privately or with hospital only insurance. Those patients who are not insured will receive automatically the same higher benefits from the Department of Health. There is no occasion for private nursing home patients to insure in order to obtain their benefits. Let that be quite clear. If they wish to insure themselves for doctor of choice and treatment of medical conditions, they have the right to do so and the insurance fund will pay the benefit, not the Commonwealth Government. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the DirectorGeneral of Health for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
I am constantly reminded by the honourable member of the pre-election policy in regard to the Capital Territory Health Commission and the composition of that body. The Government recently announced the two newly appointed full time members of the Capital Territory Health Commission, namely  Mr Russell  Boardman and the  Deputy  Commissioner,  Dr Cumming  Thorn. The Government has also resolved to appoint a third full time member of the Commission with a nursing background. We will be proceeding to make that appointment in the very near future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An amount of $ 1 .9m was included in the estimates for 1977-78 to provide for price increases in pharmaceutical benefit items which had been agreed to but had not had their impact on the cost of the Scheme. 
Increases in the prices of pharmaceutical benefit items which are estimated to cost the Government $5.8m per annum have been agreed to during the period 1 December 1976 to 31 July 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Yes. To date the strain has been isolated from 36 cases in Australia. The number of isolations made in laboratories in the various States and Territories is given below. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) The contract price for printing the  Social Security Quarterly  in 1977-78 is $13,092. The production and distribution of the  Quarterly  is undertaken as part of the overall responsibilities of the Department of Social Security in respect of a whole range of leaflets, booklets and other information covering the activities of the Department. A precise breakup of costs other than for printing is not available. However, one journalist is involved part-time in the production of the  Quarterly  and ten staff throughout Australia are involved for a few hours each quarter in its distribution. 
11,300. 
People working in the social welfare and health areas, voluntary and services organisations, government departments, politicians, parliamentary and tertiary libraries, churches, hospitals and individuals who have a special interest in social welfare. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following figures relate to Commonwealth funds provided for community health services and facilities approved under the Community Health Program. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 said that my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, and myself had arranged an examination of, inter alia, the question of consumer representation and that during the course of this examination I expected that relevant information may become available which would enable the information sought in question No. 1204 to be provided. 
Yes. 
The information sought in question No. 1204 was subsequently obtained separately and was provided in response to a question by the Leader of the Opposition No. 563  (Hansard,  2 June 1977, pages 2522-3). On the matter of the examination referred to in ( 1 ), as indicated in my reply to the honourable member's question No. 1 102, the working party which was established to examine this matter has not as yet completed the examination. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) On 20 May 1976, 1 undertook to give consideration to the possibility of introducing legislation to ensure contributors do have a democratic right to elect directors to boards of health insurance funds. 
A working pany is examining the matter and I anticipate that it will report by the end of this year. I am unable to foreshadow any further steps the Government may decide to take in the light of the report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Participating Nursing Homes Advisory Committee consists of representatives of private nursing homes and officers of my Department. The names of the members, and the organisations they represent are: 
Representatives of Nursing Homes 

 Mr V. Hawkins Convenor, National Standing Committee of Nursing Homes Secretary, Private Hospitals' Association of Queensland. 

 Dr N. Carne Assistant National Convenor of the National Standing Committee of Nursing Homes. Member, Private Geriatric Hospitals Association of Victoria. 

 Mr A. Einstein National Secretary, National Standing Committee of Nursing Homes, Executive Director, Private Hospital and Nursing Homes' Association of Australia (N.S.W.). 
Matron L. Blundell- Member, Private Hospital and Nursing Homes ' Association of South Australia. 
Representatives of Department of Health 

 Mr M. Carroll First Assistant DirectorGeneral, Insurance, Hospitals and Nursing Homes Division. 

 Mr R. B. Rofe Assistant DirectorGeneral, Nursing Homes and Development Branch. 
For the information of honourable members I present the 1977 inquiry on medical fees for medical benefit purposes by  Mr Justice  J. T. Ludeke. I seek leave to make a statement relating to this report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(U- 
I am well aware of the development and introduction of computerised axial tomography scanning which is perhaps the most modern diagnostic equipment yet to be installed in Australia. In the United States of America there has been a tremendous proliferation of these pieces of equipment, which is of course adding enormously to the health bill of the United States. I think that there are something like 22 CAT scanners either installed or on order in Australia. To try to avoid any abuse or over use of this type of diagnostic service the Commonwealth Government has set up a committee under  Dr Sidney  Sax to inquire into ways and means of ensuring that unnecessary proliferation does not occur, at great cost, in this country. We have received the co-operation of the Australian Medical Association, the Royal Australasian College of Physicians, the Royal Ausralasian 
College of Surgeons and the Society for Medical and Biological Engineering who will also be playing a part in the inquiry. Also, all State governments have indicated their concern at the possible proliferation of these machines, and they are co-operating with the inquiry. I hope that in the not too distant future I will be able to report to the Parliament on what actions the committee recommends to the Government, to prevent a situation similar to that which has worred us very greatly in the pathology area. I thank the honourable member for his question. 
-Yes. I met State Ministers on 23 September and there were two principal items on the agenda. The first was the new funding disciplines to be adopted by the joint CommonwealthState officials committees in meeting the Commonwealth's obligations under the arrangement for equal sharing of the net approved operating costs of our hospitals. The second item on the agenda was the long-term funding arrangements for the school dental program and the community health program. The States have accepted in principle die new funding arrangements to restrain the escalation of hospital operating costs throughout Australia, which have been escalating at the rate of about 30 per cent per annum. This year we have allowed for an increase of 16 per cent and we hope that the State and Commonwealth officials will be able to constrain hospital costs within those bounds. The States also have sought a commitment from the Commonwealth to ensure that the present funding levels of the school dental program and the community health program are maintained, the commitment to be embodied in two separate Acts to give the States a guarantee that Commonwealth funding will continue. The Government places great importance on the school dental program and the community health program as means of maintaining an active preventative health policy with the co-operation of the States. So we certainly are considering the possibilty of introducing legislation as a means of ensuring that the States have this guarantee and as a means of gaining the full co-operation of State governments in both programs which we believe are essential to long-term long term preventative health measures in Australia. 
-I do not know whether 'bunkum' is a parliamentary word but that is how I would describe that report. The Commonwealth Government has increased its contribution to the Community Health Program by 14.8 per cent. The allocation to Tasmania this year is higher than it was last year. In fact, it is $2. 8m. It will be receiving its share under the Community Health Program of the $lm additional money that was set aside for the funding of women's refuges in that State. Discussions are going on with the Tasmanian authorities and other State authorities so that they might establish their own priorities after discussion with organisations within their States. I do not think that Tasmania has much to grizzle about. It received by far the biggest share of the hospitals development program. It is receiving also a very fair share of funds under the Community Health Program. The honourable member for Wilmot might tell the Tasmanian Minister for Health when he goes back that he should be grateful for and gracious about what he is receiving. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This information will not be available for some time. In order to determine the percentage of the Australian population covered by Medibank Standard at 3 1 December 1 976, it is necessary to obtain membership details from all private funds. This information is still being received and processed by the Health Insurance Commission. 
The net administrative expenditure for the Health Insurance Commission for the year 1975-76 was $51,867,000. Net administrative expenditure for Medibank Standard for the year 1976-77 was $54,550,000. Details of expenditure in respect of Medibank Private for 1976-77 will not be available until the Health Insurance Commission's 1976- 77 annual report has been tabled. 
The estimate for the administrative costs of Medibank Standard in 1977-78 is $53.750m to which should be added $0.750m in Bank Funds, a total of $54.5m. However, in order to establish a reasonable basis for comparison an estimate has been made of what the cost of the original scheme would have been had it continued unaltered through to 1977- 78. The estimate is $70.235m or $15.735m more than the current estimate. The principal element in the $ 15.735m is salaries $7.470m) which includes successive salary escalations in respect of the following quarters- June 1975 3.5 per cent, December 6.4 per cent; March 1976 3 per cent (flat rate over certain sum), June 1976 1.5 per cent (flat rate to certain sum ), September 1 976 2.2 per cent, December 1 976, flat rate of $297 per annum, March 1977 1.9 per cent (flat rate over certain sum), June 1977 2 per cent). Payments to agents ($4.205m) and postage ($1.059m) are the other principal items contributing to the $ 15.735m saving. Progressive administrative savings are expected after a period of stability during which outstanding tasks will be resolved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) I am not aware of the substances that may have been tested in this way in overseas countries. However the Lethal Dose 50 per cent test is a test recommended by the World Health Organisation as a standard for measuring the toxicity of substances with which humans may come into contact or may ingest. 
and (3) The Lethal Dose SO per cent test is used in Australia in both medical research and in the toxicity testing of chemicals and other preparations. 
and (5) The techniques used in administering the Lethal Dose test is required to be gentle and humane so that the resultant data obtained are meaningful. In the case of research, whilst there is no obligation on the research worker to publish his results, it is obviously in his interests to make these known to the scientific community. In the case of substances to be registered, the results would not necessarily be published but would be available to the registering authority. Certainly the technique used requires a tube being placed into the animals stomach via the mouth and the substance administered in measured quantities to determine the dosage limits of toxicity for each substance. 
While alternatives do exist for certain types of toxicological work, there is no alternative test to the Lethal Dose 50 per cent test on live animals to obtain the particular toxicity data. 
I have no knowledge of the position in the United Kingdom. 
No. 
All research carried out in Australia including experiments on live animals is for the benefit of every country which wishes to take advantage of the information gained. 
10) The control of research using live animals is already covered by legislation in the States and Territories. This legislation would include control over the use of the Lethal Dose 50 per cent test. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
At present they are supplied to users by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission following orders placed by the Australian Radiation Laboratory or they are supplied from the Australian Radiation Laboratory following importation of material from overseas. 
I refer the honourable member to my press release of 17 August 1977 in which I stated that one of the main reasons for the ending of the free supply policy was that it limits freedom of choice. The other main reasons I included were that other equally lifesaving and diagnostic materials are not supplied free, and free issue prevents effective control and discourages commercial competition. 
Currently the Australian Radiation Laboratory is required to provide to users radio-pharmaceuticals and radio-isotopes that are available from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. Other radio-pharmaceuticals and radio-isotopes are procured by the Australian Radiation Laboratory from overseas following a tendering procedure. Thus for each radiopharmaceutical and radio-isotope there is only one brand available to users under the free supply policy. As from 1 January 1978 users will be able to purchase each radiopharmaceutical or radio-isotope from the supplier of their choice, providing the materials meet adequate standards of quality, safety and efficacy. 
The answer to this question is not known. However, currently the Australian Radiation Laboratory procures radio-pharmaceuticals and radio-isotopes from 14 overseas suppliers and for 10 of these, orders are placed on Australian agents. Currently radio-pharmaceuticals and radio-isotopes required in 'kit' form or for medical research are purchased by the user from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission or from any of 37 overseas suppliers of which 30 have Australian agents. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will recall that when the National Health Act Amendment Bill, to establish the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements as a statutory body, was being debated in this place in December 1976, attention was drawn to the large number of retail pharmacies in Australia in relation to the population. The economics of dispensing pharmaceuticals and the need to examine the question of rationalisation of retail pharmacies were also raised. - 
At that time, I indicated that the Joint Committee might look at the question of rationalisation of retail pharmacies and provide me with a report, through the  Chairman,  on possible options by which such rationalisation could be achieved and the possible role for the Commonwealth in relation to such options. Subsequently, I requested the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee,  Mr Justice  J. T. Ludeke, to undertake the preparation of a report on guidelines and possible options for the rationalisation of re tau pharmacies. 
The Joint Committee, which consists of four members nominated by the Pharmacy Guild of Australia and four officers of the Australian Public Service, in addition to the independent  Chairman,  has established a sub-committee to examine the question of pharmacy rationalisation. The issues involved are complex and it may be some time before the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee is in a position to report on this matter. 
The current position in relation to the rationalisation of retail pharmacies is set out in ( 1 ) above. However, I recently announced the introduction of a new allowance scheme to support pharmacies providing a dispensing service in isolated and remote locations. Under the new Isolated Pharmacy Allowance Scheme a pharmacist is eligible to receive an allowance of up to $2,520 a year if the pharmacy is situated more than 25 kilometres from another pharmacy and if the owner can demonstrate economic need. 
The allowance was introduced following a unanimous recommendation of the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements and replaces the previous zone allowance arrangements. 
Eight-cylinder Engines: Production Statistics  (Question No. 878) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. On 12 July 1977 the Director of Health, Western Australia Division, advised  Mr Toomer  by letter, that he would not accept two calls made to the Department of Veterans' Affairs from the departmental official telephone at Fort Hedland as being official calls. 
) Subsequently, yes. 
On receipt of this information the Department immediately accepted these calls as being official. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. However, the instructions for  Mr Brogan  to proceed to Port Hedland were withdrawn because another officer had been found to undertake the duties. 
No. As the instruction was withdrawn no further action in respect of  Mr Brogan  was required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Chief Officer of the Western Australia Division of the Department of Health, on 16 August 1977 sustained eight charges which had been preferred against  Mr Toomer.  In respect of four of these charges the Chief Officer, by virtue of the powers conferred upon him by section 55 (3) (d) of the Public Service Act 1 922, recommended to the Public Service Board that  Mr Toomer  be dismissed from the Australian Public Service. These four charges concerned contravention of the provisions of section 55 of the Public Service Act as a result of communicating to the Press information he had received whilst acting in his official capacity. One of the matters communicated by him concerned a parcel said to have contained meat. 

 Mr Toomer has since appealed against the decision of the Chief Officer in respect of all eight charges. 
No. The charges related to contravention of the provisions of section 55 of the Public Service Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Health Commission of New South Wales, which is responsible for the administration of this service, has advised that this project, which is based at Parramatta, employs 168 nurses throughout the Western Metropolitan Region. Sixteen (16) of those nurses are employed in the electoral division of Parramatta 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The legislation which has prohibited the advertising of cigarettes and cigarette tobacco on television and radio since 1 September 1976 does not preclude advertisements for cigars and pipe tobacco. 
See(l). 
The Third Report from the Royal College of Physicians of London titled 'Smoking or Health' published in 1977 states: 'The risk of death from lung cancer is related to the number of cigarettes smoked and the age of starting, and is reduced by smoking filter-tipped cigaretes . . . Pipe and cigar smokers suffer much smaller risks than cigarette smokers . . . 
Most large surveys have shown little, if any, increased risk of coronary heart disease in smokers of pipes and cigars. They are mostly light smokers, but those who smoke heavily or inhale run an increased risk. Those who change from cigarettes to cigars or pipes may not reduce their risk of coronary heart disease. There is evidence that such smokers may continue to inhale . . . This is most likely to happen in those who smoke small cigars ... A switch to pipe and cigar smoking may therefore not result in a corresponding reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease. ' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The members of the Medical Benefits Schedule Revision Committee are: 

 Dr L. L. Wilson, VicePresident of the AMA.  Dr J.  E. Lee, Member of the Federal Council of the AMA. 

 Dr G. D. Repin, SecretaryGeneral, AMA. 

 Mr E. Wu, Director Fees Bureau, AMA. 

 Mr L. J. O'Keefe, Principal Medical Officer, Medical 
-I think that even  Mr Justice  Ludeke appreciated the great difficulty that would confront the Department in trying to achieve the profile that the honourable member for Prospect was seeking in relation to the changed arrangements in universal health insurance in this country since the introduction of Medibank. The Department for some time has been seeking to obtain from the computerised system the information that would help an inquiry to assess the new levels of incomes of the medical profession as a whole. I do not anticipate that that information will be available in any meaningful way until some time next year, notwithstanding the fact that the resources of Medibank and the resources of my Department have been employed to their utmost in trying to achieve the statistics that would be valuable in arriving at a total profile of doctors' incomes in Australia. Honourable members will recall that  Dr Scotton  was hopeful that the Medibank system would have statistics available to enable objective assessments to be made. There are, of course, tens of thousands of doctors in this country, and to try to take out individual incomes raises very serious questions of privacy. Notwithstanding that, the Government is using the resources it has available to try to obtain the necessary information to assist in future inquiries. 
I think the House ought to know that  Mr Justice  Ludeke 's determination has resulted in an increase in doctors ' incomes of 3.8 per cent for the year 1978. By any standards that is a very reasonable income increase, particularly when compared with what happened when the Labor Government was in office. For instance, in 1974-75 we saw an increase in doctors' fees of 31.9 per cent and in 1975-76 an increase of 20.5 per cent, making a total increase of 52.4 per cent. 
Since this Government came to office there have been much more moderate increases in doctors' fees. Last year the Government negotiated an increase of 7.5 per cent across the board. This year  Mr Justice  Ludeke determined an average increase of 7.3 per cent, which excludes any increase for pathology fees. If no increases occur in pathology fees for 1978, the actual increase will be 6.7 per cent. This takes into account the increase in practice costs and the increase in incomes thought to be desirable within the plateau indexation concept. Notwithstanding the honourable member's concern about the fact that the information was not available from the computers, the increase in doctors' incomes for the whole of 1978 will be 3.8 per cent. If we could keep increases in incomes in Australia to that sort of level we would wipe out inflation overnight. 
-I am indebted to the honourable member for Macarthur for drawing this criticism to my attention. I am surprised that the Premier of New South Wales and the New South Wales Minister for Health would indulge themselves in such a blast against the Federal Government and the Federal Minister because we have been so generous and co-operative with them in trying to assist them to extend their health services in New South Wales. Last year all State governments received $ 108m towards their hospitals development program. 
-And this year $50m, because the States are $62 lm better off. State governments are better off than they have ever been as a result of our federalism policy. While they are balancing their Budgets with credits, we are still labouring under great difficulty trying to bring the Commonwealth Budget into some sort of balance after three years of extravagance and ^responsibility by the Whitlam Labor Government. In a short period of three years, the Labor Government introduced many rather good schemes. But that Government was very extravagant, and in some instances very irresponsible. As a consequence, the Labor Government increased its tax take by over 90 per cent in its three years in office, thereby taking money out of the pockets of the Australian people, also robbing the States and giving local government a pretty raw deal. We have attempted to try to reverse this situation. 
I think it ill befits Labor politicians to try to make out on such a platform that this Government is giving the States a raw deal. In 1976-77, the New South Wales State Government spent $5 1.6m on its hospital program. Of this amount, the Commonwealth contributed $36m but it did not get one iota of thanks for that. In 1978 New South Wales is to spend $76.3m. The Commonwealth will be contributing $15m towards that project, meeting 50 per cent of the net operational costs of hospitals and increasing grants to the States by $62 lm or 17 per cent. I am rather surprised that  Mr Wran,  the Leader of the Opposition and the Labor Party should have launched such an unfair and unnecessary attack upon a Government which has done so much. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 4 August 1977 the Director of Health, Western Australia, advised  Mr Toomer  that as he had been suspended from duty he was not permitted to enter any of  the  establishments or premises controlled by the Department of Health in Western Australia, except: 
when officially requested to attend for any reason; or 
for a reason other than to comply with an official request and for which he had sought and obtained the prior approval of the Assistant Director (Medical) or Assistant Director (Executive Services). 
Further, as  Mr Toomer  was a suspended officer he was requested to forward all official identity documents with which he had been issued. 
The Director's letter of 4 August does not prejudge the charges which have been laid against  Mr Toomer  under the Public Service Act. The letter was concerned only with administrative action necessary as a result of  Mr Toomer  's suspension from duty. 
Australia's relations with the Asian region  (Question No. 1240) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I am informed that no libel action was ever initiated by  Dr Wilmot  against  Mr Toomer. 
-The Minister for Social Security will be making a statement on this matter, probably tomorrow. In the meantime the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations will be speaking to the National Labour Consultative Council. 
I thank honourable members on both sides of the House for the contributions they have made to the debate on the estimates for the Department of Health, the Department of Social Security and the Department of Veterans' Affairs. I will deal briefly with some of the points raised by honourable members. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  referred to his concern about the defrauding doctors in our community. The Government is well aware that this practice is happening and, under the terms of the Health Insurance Act, has moved to increase the penalties very substantially. 
-The maximum penalty is now $10,000 and/or six months gaol. We certainly would like to see more prosecutions. Doctors who are defrauding the health insurance system will receive no mercy from either this Government or me. Currently, there are over 170 doctors under inquiry by the Health Commission. Forty-seven cases have been referred to the Commonwealth Police for investigation. There have been eight prosecutions. In its all out campaign to stamp out fraudulent practice the Government has the full support of the leaders of the Australian Medical Association who also are concerned about some of the activities of thenprofessional colleagues. Inquiries are currently being undertaken into bulk billing. We want to be sure that bulk billing is not one of the incentives to doctors to abuse the health insurance system. 
I was interested in the contribution made by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and in particular what he had to say about the way in which doctors are paid. The former Government was not able to abolish the fee for service system and I doubt whether it will be abolished overnight or over a period of years. But, quite obviously, the fee for service system does encourage in some instances unscrupulous members of the profession to provide excessive services to patients. To overcome that situation the Australian Medical Association has agreed to co-operate with the Government to establish various committees of inquiry in each of the States. The thanks of the Government go to the Australian Medical Association for nominating representatives to those bodies. This arrangement should ensure that any cases referred to the Association will be examined in the light of recognised medical practice. So, there is the clear will on the part of the decent majority of members of the profession to take positive action to try to stamp out this practice. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  introduced into the debate the issue of quarantine. I am glad that he did because the public needs to be aware of the importance of well executed, well administered quarantine measures in this country. The honourable member mentioned- quite wrongly- that there had been an outbreak of Newcastle disease among our poultry flocks. I repeat: This is not true. There was no outbreak of Newcastle disease in the poultry industry. However, there was, as he suggested, an attempt by people to smuggle birds into Australia from Indonesia. One bird has been proved to suffer from Newcastle disease. I pay tribute to the officers of my Department and to officers of the various State primary industry departments and of other agencies who were involved in intercepting these birds in the various averies in Queensland and New South Wales. I hope that the swift action that was taken by quarantine officials of the Department of Health will prevent the spread of Newcastle disease, which, of course, is the worst disease known to the poultry industry. 
I should mention that the Government gives a very high priority to maintaining an effective quarantine barrier against the introduction of exotic diseases of humans, animals and plants. We have, of course, set aside $ 13.5m m the Budget for a number of very important capital projects. The first of these is the establishment of a high security quarantine treatment unit- the Fairfield Infectious Diseases Hospital in Melbourne. This will be a first step in the modernisation of human quarantine arrangements in this country. The unit will cost $910,000. The Government will construct also a high security off-shore animal quarantine station on Cocos (Keeling) Islands at a cost of $6.9m. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  asked whether it is necessary to develop the Torrens Island quarantine facility. It is absolutely necessary to do this because the Cocos (Keeling) Islands quarantine station will be used principally for animals coming to Australia from countries where various exotic diseases are endemic. We intend to use the Torrens Island facility for horses and other animals that come direct from the United Kingdom or via New Zealand. It will be a very useful facility to back up the facility at the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. We also will be constructing a new mainland animal quarantine station at Wallgrove in Sydney at a cost of $4.6m. In addition, we will be upgrading the facilities at Torrens Island and Spotswood animal quarantine station at a cost of $995,000. Some of these projects are subject to report by the Public Works Committee and the approval of this Parliament. We also are seeking to construct or upgrade incinerators at the Rockhampton, Townsville, Tullamarine, Perth and Port Hedland airports. So, in a year when cuts are being made the Government is giving a very high priority to improving the quarantine barrier in this country. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong placed emphasis on the importance of the community health program. This program is fully supported by the Government and by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  He has been a great supporter of the program- as, I am sure, are most members of this Parliament. There has been a grizzle from the States because they will be asked to contribute much more to the community health programs projects in their States, but I emphasise again that the States are $63 lm better off this financial year than they were last financial year- indeed, 17 per cent better off- and therefore should be putting extra money into such a worthwhile program. They cannot have it both ways, and I am sure that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  would agree with that observation and will use his good influences on his State colleagues in New South Wales to accept that philosophy. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  raised the question of nursing homes. He was very concerned about this confusion which exists in the minds of some patients in nursing homes. Apparently in his area many patients believe that they must insure with a private health insurance fund in order to get the nursing home benefit. That is not true, and I hope that tonight I have clarified this point in the minds of many nursing home patients. They do not have to insure with a private fund because they get benefits either from the Commonwealth Department of Health or the insurance funds. However, if they want to have the doctor of their choice when they go to hospital for treatment, that is their decision and they have to insure with a private fund; otherwise they would be treated by a doctor chosen by the hospital. That is the only reason why they would need to insure with a private fund. I would be pleased to help the honourable member for Chifley clarify any doubt in the minds of our nursing home patients whom we have done so much to help. 
The Government was very concerned that many nursing home patients and their families throughout Australia were having great difficulty in meeting the enormous gap between the fees to be paid and the benefits payable, but under the new arrangement the Government has brought a new era of security to nursing home patients and their families. I have received a number of letters of gratitude from them and I know that they accept it as a new era of security. They can rest assured that the Government will not let them down. If it is possible to inscribe the 70 per cent rule in legislation, we certainly will do so. Time is getting on; so once again I thank all those who participated in the debate. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
From 1 January 1977 recurrent assistance to pre-schools has been paid in the form of block grants to the States. Since the introduction of the block grant system it has not been necessary to establish separate consultative mechanisms for each State on this issue. 
Instead, regular meetings are now held at ministerial level and between senior officers of relevant State and Commonwealth departments to discuss all aspects of the Children's Service Program including Pre-School Services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The claims have been investigated and found to be without substance. 
There is no evidence to indicate that previously excluded insect pests have been introduced and established in Australia from imported cut flowers. Occasionally insects are found during the quarantine inspection of imported flowers and in these cases the flowers are fumigated with methyl bromide. 
See 3. In accordance with established procedure, quarantine inspectors inspect imported flowers to ensure that exotic insects are not introduced. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1) and (2) While the exact nature of the Commonwealth Government's involvement in Australia's observance of the International Year of the Child in 1979 has yet to be finalised, an interdepartmental committee has met a number of times to discuss and co-ordinate the efforts of a number of Commonwealth departments. 
The Government has made a decision to work with both State governments and voluntary organisations in the celebrations of this Year of the Child. 
An announcement will be made on the co-operative arrangements with the States following negotiations between the Prime Minister and the Premiers. I have also announced that I will make funds available for a secretariat to assist and co-ordinate the effort of voluntary organisations throughout Australia. 
-This matter comes within the responsibility of the Minister for Social Security. I shall answer the question. A decision will be taken on the return of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations after his discussion with the National Labour Consultative Council. He will be reporting back to the Minister for Social Security and the Government and an announcement will be made some time in the next day or so. 
-The Government has been considering a range of policies designed to minimise the disabilities of people living in isolated areas of Australia. This consideration would include policies relating to health services. The honourable member will recall that in the recent Budget under the family medicine program the Government announced an incentive scheme for young post-graduate general practitioners to encourage them to go to rural areas to practice at least for a period in the hope that they will settle in rural areas and thus help to overcome some of the manpower shortage that exists in these areas. I have written to the State health ministers seeking their co-operation under the hospitals cost sharing arrangement to share the cost of travel and accommodation as well as hospital and medical attention in a case where a patient is removed from one country hospital to another location to receive more expert medical attention. 
I believe the States, which are now $640.5m better off as a result of the Fraser federalism policies, should be playing a greater role than they have played in the past in looking after the health, education and other welfare aspects of the people who live within their States. We are concerned about the very serious problem that confronts people living in isolated areas in which a general practitioner may refer a patient from a country town to a specialist in another centre or a city. We are looking at the possibility of trying to assist them in terms of their accommodation and travel in order to minimise the burden they are carrying. I think that that is only fair because today, under the universal health insurance scheme, people pay the same amount of levy if they are levy payers or the same premium if they are privately insured as people in the metropolitan areas. Therefore they should have equal access, if it is at all possible, to medical services in this country. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) While the exact nature of the Commonwealth Government's involvement in Australia's observance of the International Year of the Child in 1979 has yet to be finalised, an Inter-departmental Committee has met a number of times to discuss and co-ordinate the efforts of a number of Commonwealth Departments. 
The Government has made a decision to work with both State governments and voluntary organisations in the celebrations of this Year of the Child. 
An announcement will be made on the co-operative arrangements with the States following negotiations between the Prime Minister and the Premiers. I have also announced that I will make funds available for a secretariat to assist and co-ordinate the effort of voluntary organisations throughout Australia. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) While some work remains to be completed, I expect to be able to discuss the Government's proposals with State governments at an early date. 
(2) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Developments in the system of national superannuation in New Zealand have been studied with interest within the Department of Social Security. 
Articles on the subject, prepared by officers of the Department, appeared in the Autumn 1975 and Autumn 1977 editions of the Departmental publication Socio/  Security Quarterly. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry was established by the Government in 1973 as an independent body. It is understood that in the course of the preparation of the Committee's Interim Report, informal discussions were held with officers of the Attorney-General's Department. The services of an independent authority, Professor Geoffrey Sawer, were subsequently obtained when it became apparent that other work pressures would result in a serious delay in the provision of detailed advice from the Attorney-General's Department. Professor Sawer's opinions are referred to in the Committee's Final Report (Part One, Pages 38-40; Pan Two, pages 5 1 and 52). 
No. 
International Year of the Child  (Question No. 1673) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The decision to remove trade unions from the list of recipients of free copies of the  Social Security Quarterly  was made by the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following table in answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following table in answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No price increases for pharmaceutical benefits scheme products produced by Commonwealth Serum Laboratories (CSL) have been accepted which were higher than those of other firms marketing the same drug formulation. CSL are also the sole manufacturers of some pharmaceutical benefits scheme products. Price increases on these items are accepted only after detailed examination of relevant factors, including actual costs information provided by CSL. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Health Ministers at their conference in May 1975 agreed to establish a Joint Working Party of State and Australian Government Officers to draw up model food legislation suitable for uniform application throughout Australia. 
Following the decisions of the Ministers the Joint Commonwealth/State Working Party met on 4 May 1 976 and established a Food Law Revision Task Force to undertake the detailed work necessary. 
The work of the Task Force has been substantially completed and I expect that model food legislation suitable for application throughout Australia will be referred to Health Ministers for consideration at their 1978 conference. 
The answer to the honourable member's question concerning the $ 1,000m of Health expenditure removed from the consolidated revenue area is that the figure of $ 1,000m is an indicative figure only and covers the period since the Liberal-Country Party Government was returned. 
During this time a number of expenditure reviews have been carried out resulting in reductions of $20m in December 1975, $100m in May 1976 (my Press release of 20 May 1976 refers), and the deferral of new programs amounting to $8m. Expenditure in 1976-77 was some $404m below the amount appropriated, and, in addition changes to the health insurance arrangements in October 1976 were estimated to reduce Commonwealth expenditure in 1976-77 by approximately $450m (as mentioned in the Treasurer's Press release of 20 May 1976). 
Overall I think it a reasonable assessment that the adjustments have reduced Commonwealth expenditure by approximately $ 1,000m. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Social Services Act 1947 I present the annual report of the Department of Social Security for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Most organisations have provided the required information. Because of problems associated mainly with establishing computerised records, a few organisations have not yet provided this information. The information which has been provided indicates that there are at least 55.3 per cent of Australians covered for private basic medical insurance and 64 per cent for private basic hospital insurance. These figures are shown in tables 74 and 92 of the Annual Report of the Director-General of Health for 1976-77 tabled on 21 September 1977. 
The information has been provided progressively by the organisations since January 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The maximum weekly amounts of the Government subsidy per contributor in each State for 'hospital only' insurance are referred to in section 82aa of the National Health Act and are as follows: 
It is having the effect of reducing the inflation rate, and reducing it amazingly compared with the way in which it went up while you were in office. The new rates of age, invalid, wives and widows pensions, supporting mothers benefits and sheltered employment allowances will be payable on 10 November 1977. The new rates of unemployment and sickness benefit will operate with effect from 1 November 1977. Single unemployment and sickness beneficiaries under 18 years of age will continue to receive payment at $36.00 a week. The cost of increasing pensions and benefits for Social Security pensioners and beneficiaries in November is estimated to be $140m in 1977-78 and $2 14m in a full year. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned.  ( Quorum formed). 
It was brought to the attention of the Government that voluntary agencies in Victoria have used their funds to the maximum extent to assist distressed families. The Government has decided to make a grant of $50,000 for emergency relief. The Minister for Social Security has been in discussion with her State colleague in Victoria, the Honourable Brian Dixon, and the Victorian Government has also decided to contribute $50,000 for the same purpose. The $100,000 will be made available immediately. The Commonwealth Department of Social Security is working with the State department to determine the distribution of those funds for people in necessitous circumstances as a result of the deplorable strike in Victoria. 
It would appear from Press reports that the New South Wales Government does not only have money running out of its ears but also has motor cars running out of its ears as a result of the better revenue grant system for financing the States and also the way in which we are assisting the States with various programs. Yes, it is a fact that statements about a surplus of cars have been made by the Premier of* New South Wales. In fact, I understand that there is a surplus of something like $1.6m worth of cars. About half a million dollars worth of those cars have been purchased under the community health program. When this matter was brought to my attention towards the end of the last financial year I made arrangements for my departmental officers to get in touch with the New South Wales Health Commission to make sure it was brought to account. I have also made sure that in this financial year proceeds from the sale of surplus cars purchased under the community health program granting arrangement will in fact be reinvested within the community health program block grant allocation for 1 977-78. 
I must say that this matter adds great weight to the decision that the Government took to involve the States to a greater extent in the contributions that they make towards this very valuable community health program. If they are more accountable for and more involved in the program we will probably not see a surplus in the number of cars purchased, as has happened in the past. I shall be watching the matter very closely to make sure that the proceeds from the sale of surplus cars are directed to the right and proper place under the community health program grant for 1977-78. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will give effect to the Government's social services proposals for 1 977-78. These are: 
Extension of eligibility for handicapped child's allowance to less severe cases where the family income is low and financial hardship would otherwise be suffered. Extension of the free rehabilitation programs of the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service to housewives, pensioners, juniors and other classes of persons not previously eligible. Removal of a provision which discriminates against married women in relation to sickness benefit and bringing the income test for sickness benefit into line with that applying to unemployment benefit. 
The Bill also gives effect to the Government's decision to clarify in the legislation the position regarding eligibility of school leavers for unemployment benefit. Two machinery amendments are also being made. 
Honourable members will be aware that in addition to these measures, pensions and benefits are to be increased in November in accordance with existing provisions of the Social Services Act for six-monthly adjustments in the consumer price index. The new single rate of pension will represent 24.9 per cent of the seasonally adjusted average weekly male earnings for the June 1977 quarter. I will refer in detail to these increases later. 
Handicapped Child's Allowance 
At present handicapped child's allowance of $15 a week is payable to parents or guardians in respect of a severely physically or mentally handicapped child under 16 years of age who is cared for at home and who, because of the severity of the handicap, requires constant care and attention. This should not be confused with handicapped child's benefit which is paid at $5 per day for handicapped children residing in an approved home. The handicapped child's allowance is designed to assist in meeting the exceptional costs incurred by parents or guardians who p refer to care for a severely handicapped child at h ome rather than to place the childin an institution. It has come to notice that there are a number of low income families caring for a child who is substantially handicapped but not severely handicapped and for whom handicapped child's allowance is not paid because the medical criteria are not fully met. The Government is aware of the additional costs that can be incurred in caring for a handicapped child at home and that it places a strain- often a severe strain- on the finance of low-income parents. These expenses can arise out of the need to provide special footwear or other clothing, special diets or specific medical or remedial treatment that the parents of other children are not required to provide. 
The Government has accordingly decided to extend eligibility for handicapped child's allowance. The Director-General of Social Services, at his discretion, will be able to grant a handicapped child's allowance of up to $15 a week to a person on low income who is caring for a substantially handicapped child. The allowance will be payable in respect of a child whose substantial handicap does not fully meet the existing medical criteria but where, because of continuing substantial expenditure associated with the child's disability, the parent or guardian is, in the Director-General's opinion, suffering severe financial hardship. 
Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service 
The other change in assistance to handicapped people related to the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service and the broadening of its present terms of eligibility for acceptance of cases without charge. The Commonwealth Government, through the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service, has, for the past 29 years, operated a com- prehensive rehabilitation service for selectedandicapped people. The service, which began in July 1948, is conducted by the Department of Social Security as part of its responsibility for administration of the Social Services Act. The Service is designed to help people who are suffering from long term disabilities by providing them with comprehensive programs of social/vocational rehabilitation once the acute phase of recovery has been completed. Over the years the Service has been able to assist many thousands of severely handicapped people to reach or to regain independance and, in a high percentage of cases, their capacity to undertake gainful employment. As matters stand, however, assistance free of charge through the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service is confined to certain pensioners and beneficiaries under the Social Services Act, in addition to a small number of special groups. Other disabled people who are unable to qualify for a free service have either to be sponsored for the cost of their rehabilitation treatment and training, or personally meet the cost in accordance with individual capacity to pay. To qualify for assistance there must also be reasonable prospects, following rehabilitation, of the individual being able to return to, or engaging in, gainful employment, Under the above criteria disabled housewives, for example, or other persons who may be deemed unlikely to have reasonable prospects of undertaking gainful employment, are not eligible for assistance free of charge. 
The Government has recognised the pressing need for rehabilitation assistance, particularly of a social/vocational nature, to be made more freely available to all persons who would benefit substantially from such assistance. We are proposing, therefore, that the remedial and training programs of the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service should be made available, without cost, not only to those who have reasonable prospects of undertaking employment, whether full, parttime, or sheltered, but also to all those within the broad working age group who, in spite of substantial residual handicaps, have reasonable prospects, with rehabilitation assistance, of either resuming a former role as housewife/mother, or simply increasing their capacity to lead an independent or semiindependent life at home. 
In brief, the amendments we are proposing to Part VIII of the Act will enable the Department of Social Security to offer the very successful rehabilitation treatment and training programs of the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service to all classes of severely disabled persons within the broad working age group who would benefit substantially from such assistance. During the current year, emphasis will be paid to the acceptance of greater numbers of disabled housewives, especially those from families of low socioeconomic status who would otherwise be unlikely to undertake necessary rehabilitation on a paying basis even if this were offered at reduced charges. Priority will also be given to those cases where the breadwinner's employment status is being affected because of the demands of caring for a disabled spouse living at home and who could be afforded more independence through appropriate rehabilitation measures. 
Sickness Benefit 
The Government has decided to remove an element of discrimination existing in relation to the eligibility of married women to receive sickness benefit. Sickness benefit is payable at the same rate as unemployment benefit to a person who is temporarily incapacitated for work, and has suffered a loss of income as a result of the incapacity. The maximum rate is currently $47.10 a week for a single person without dependants, and $78.50 a week for a married couple- these rates will increase  to $49.30  and $82.20 respectively from 1 November 1977, in accordance with the existing automatic adjustment provisions contained in the Social Services Act. Where there are children, additional benefit of $7.50 a week is payable for each child. Supplementary allowance up to a maximum of $5 a week may be paid when sickness benefit has been paid continuously for 6 weeks and the person pays rent, lodging or board and lodging. 
At present the Social Services Act provides that a married woman is not entitled to sickness benefit if it is reasonably possible for her husband to maintain her. This provision is considered to discriminate against women. It will be repealed. In future a married woman will be able to qualify for a sickness benefit on the same basis as a married man. A change in the method of assessing sickness benefit is also proposed. Sickness benefit is the only income-tested benefit under the Social Services Act which does not take into account the income of both husband and wife. The method of assessment is out of line with the other income-tested pensions and benefits because the income of a wife is not taken into account in determining the husband's entitlement to sickness benefit. The effect of this is that a married man may receive sickness benefit up to the maximum single rate of $47.10 a week, irrespective of his wife's income. The Government believes that this position is no longer tenable and the Bill amends relevant provisions of the Act accordingly. 
-Action along these lines was recommended by Professor Henderson in his first main report on poverty in Australia, so it has the support of a very distinguished Australian who is most interested in poverty. This means that in future the combined income of both husband and wife will be taken into account in assessing the rate of sickness benefit as is the case with other income-tested pensions and benefits. Provisions are included m the Bill to ensure that no existing beneficiary's payment will be reduced as a result of this change. 
School Leavers 
The Bill also gives effect to the Government's decision to clarify by legislation the eligibility of school leavers for unemployment benefit. Last year, in accordance with a decision of the Government, unemployment benefit was not paid to school leavers during the summer vacation. In recent years many claims for unemployment benefit have been made during the summer vacation by school leavers prior to their making serious efforts to obtain employment and by others who claim to be unemployed but who actually intend to resume school or go to tertiary education after the vacation. The Government believes that it would be reasonable to impose some period of time after leaving school before a school leaver will be eligible for unemployment benefit. 
The Government has decided that a period of six weeks is reasonable, and the Bill provides that, in the case of school leavers, unemployment benefit is not payable for six weeks after the date of ceasing full-time education. A person who has completed a course of secondary education apart from sitting for examinations will be deemed to remain a full-time secondary school student until after the completion of the examinations. A similar period of six weeks during which unemployment benefit is not payable will apply to tertiary students who do not complete their courses if the Director-General is satisfied that the cessation of their studies was due to a voluntary act and without good and sufficient reason. 
The other amendments contained in the Bill are largely machinery. Firstly, a provision is being inserted in the Act requiring the beneficiary to notify the Department immediately he obtains paid employment or commences to engage in work on his own account. At present there is no such requirement in the Act. In fact a person is only required to notify the receipt of income within a period of seven days after he has received that income. This has been a serious defect, particularly in cases where unemployment benefit is paid fortnightly in advance. 
Other matters affecting eligibility for benefits such as the receipt of income, marriage, etc., will also require immediate notification. The DirectorGeneral will have the right to calculate and recover any overpayments from the date on which the change of eligibility occurred. 
A further amendment relates to the periods for which unemployment and sickness benefits may be paid. Section 132 of the Act at present requires that benefits should be paid in fortnightly instalments. The Bill amends that section so that payments may be made in respect of such periods as the Director-General determines. This will enable a weekly instalment to be paid where considered necessary. It is proposed to do this in respect of the first cheque when payments commence to be paid in arrears. 
Under the new procedures, a person who makes a claim for unemployment benefit on the day on which he becomes unemployed will not be entitled to receive any benefit m respect of the first week of unemployment. After the end of the second week, he will receive the benefit for that week on submitting a statement confirming that he has not been employed or received income that would make him ineligible. This procedure will be repeated and he will receive a further two weeks benefit at fortnightly intervals thereafter, while the unemployment continues and he satisfies eligibility requirements. It has been claimed that the proposed system could lead to hardship if an unemployed person does not make immediate application for benefit in the hope that he will find work without needing to apply for Commonwealth assistance. The new law will accordingly provide that a period of unemployment immediately prior to the date of application for benefit may be taken into account as the whole or part of the waiting period if it is established that the claimant was able to work and took reasonable steps to obtain work during that period. 
I would like to draw to the attention of honourable members the proposed increases in pensions and benefits which I mentioned at the beginning of this speech. As honourable members will be aware, these increases flow from the provisions relating to the six-monthly automatic adjustment of pensions which were inserted in the Social Services Act last year. The maximum single rate will increase by $2.20 a week to $49.30 a week. The maximum combined married rate will increase by $3.70 a week to $82.20 a week. 
The increases reflect the 4.7 per cent increase in the consumer price index between the December quarter 1976 and the June quarter 1977. These increases will mean that since the Government assumed office in December 1975 the standard or single rate of pension has increased by $10.55 a week and the combined married rate by $ 1 7.70 a week. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. ( 1 ), (2 ) and ( 3 ) Yes, A letter in the terms indicated was recently received and the correspondent informed that the Government had recently considered the general question of Australia's participation in agreements on social security with a number of countries, including West Germany. It was also stated that additional information is being sought and that the Government will give further consideration to the subject after the required material is available. 
The question of payment of West German pensions in Australia is principally one for the West German Government. In relation to an agreement under which West German pensions might be paid in Australia see the answer to (1),(2)and(3)above 
Because of the differing social security systems in Australia and West Germany the development of principles for an agreement which would be satisfactory has yet to be completed. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The only available figures for premium increases relate to the period of the financial year. Figures for the period 26 September 1975 to 12 October 1977 specifically are not available. However, the percentage increases in premiums for the 1975-76 financial year over the 1974-75 financial year based on figures in the Third Annual Report of the Insurance Commissioner were: 
I am aware of the incidence of glue sniffing amongst children and amongst some Aboriginal families- Aboriginal children in particular. It has been of considerable concern to the Department of Health and to the subcommittee of the National Health and Medical Research Council, that is responsible for investigations into these areas. A good deal of work has been done so far, the details of which I am not completely aware of; but I will make sure that the honourable member receives all the details relating to the work that is being done at present to reduce the incidence of glue sniffing. I thank the honourable member for the question. He can rest assured that the Department of Health is very concerned about it and action is being taken through the public health programs to try to lessen the incidence. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following the suspension of  Mr Toomer  on 14 July 1977, Quarantine Inspector,  Mr C.  Fish was sent from Melbourne and took up his duties at Port Hedland on 18 July 1977. In the interim, four part-time quarantine assistants at Port Hedland performed quarantine surveillance at the port. This is normal procedure when the Quarantine Inspector is visiting other ports in the area. 

 Mr Fish remained in Port Hedland until 23 July 1977 when  Mr R.  Dixon, Quarantine Inspector, Karratha, resumed duty and took over responsibility for the Port Hedland area. 
Quarantine surveillance in the Karratha/Port Hedland/ Dampier area is undertaken by  Mr Dixon  and, since 8 August 1977,  Mr P.  Kempf, an experienced Quarantine Assistant Grade 3 temporarily transferred from Fremantle. One of these officers is in Port Hedland each working day and on the week-ends when vessel movements require this. 
Following a Departmental review of quarantine personnel resources, approval was given for additional Quarantine Assistants Grade 3 to be appointed at Dampier (two), Geraldton and Port Walcott. The positions have been advertised and applications are currently being considered. 
No. The staffing position since 14 July 1977 has not influenced quarantine risk. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) and (3)  Mr W.  F. Toomer did not seek help or aid from my Department before or during the week commencing 11 July 1977. 

 Mr Toomer was contacted once, by telephone, by the Perth office of my Department during the week commencing 1 1 July to advise him to collect a letter from the Post Office at his convenience. My Department has no record of  Mr Toomer  being contacted on any other occasion during the Inquiry. However,  Mr Toomer  may have been contacted on some focal matters of which I and my Depanment have no knowledge. 

 Mr Toomer's duty on the days in question was to attend the Inquiry and there is no reason why he should not have  made adequate local arrangements for the pan-time Quarantine Assistants in Port Hedland to cover his routine work as is the usual procedure during his absence from Port Hedland. 
On 6 July 1977  Mr Toomer  requested by telegram access to his personal file.  Mr Toomer  was advised by the Director of Health, Western Australia, as follows: 
You have previously been informed that officers of the Australian Public Service may not have access to their personal files. In any case your complete personal file was requested by Canberra and it has been forwarded to this Deart ment 's Central Office and it is believed that the file has een passed to the officers who have been delegated by the Public Service Board to inquire into your case '. 
Subsequently, the Public Service Board approved that  Mr Toomer  have reasonable access to appropriate personal records and he inspected these on 20 and 2 1 August 1977. 
For the information of honourable members I present the review of Australian quarantine arrangements undertaken by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet at the direction of the Prime Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 20 May 1976,I undertook to give consideration to the possibility of introducing legislation to ensure contributors do have a democratic right to elect directors to boards of health insurance funds. A working party is examining the matter and I expect that it will report by the end of this year. I am unable to foreshadow any further steps the Government may decide to take in the light of the report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The explanatory brochure was intended to be a collaborative project with the Bureau of Customs. 
Because of the current economic situation the project has been postponed but will be undertaken as soon as feasible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 30 June 1977 projects approved for funding under the Hospitals Development Program were as follows:- 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-That is the sort of sneaky question one would expect from the Opposition. Perhaps that is the sort of motive that would be in its mind if it were facing an election. My Department has received a number of applications from health funds in the various States. I have not yet received a formal response from the departmental registration committee recommending the fee increases that would be required. Some time ago I had discussions with  Mr Moon,  the  Chairman  of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association, who indicated that most of the funds would be thinking in terms of increasing their premiums as from 1 February next year. 
-No, not doubling them. The increase will vary from State to State. We are finding that in New South Wales, for instance, the services provided to patients by doctors has been far in excess of the services provided in other States. So one would expect the premiums to rise more substantially in New South Wales than in any other State. I would not expect there to be much variation in the premiums in South Australia, Victoria, Western Australia, Tasmania and indeed Queensland. I will be considering the recommendations from the departmental registration committee when they come to me for consideration and not before. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The principal programs which are administered by my Department and can readily be identified in monetary terms in the electoral division of Oxley are: 
Hospitals Development Program 
Australian School Dental Scheme 
Community Health Program 
Home Nursing Service (Subsidy) 
Details of expenditure on each project in each year from and including 1971-72 are provided in the following statements. 
Other major programs which are conducted on a national or State basis but for which figures are not available for individual electoral divisions are as follows: 
Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service 
Drug Education Program 
Family Planning Program Nursing Home Benefits Program 
Domiciliary Nursing Care Benefits Program 
Private Hospital Bed Subsidy Program 
Hospitals Cost Sharing Arrangements 
Health Program Grants 
Hospitals Development Program- 
This program was established in 1974-75 to provide capital assistance to the States over a five year period for the provision of new hospitals, mental institutions, hostels and nursing homes and the upgrading of existing facilities. 
The following approved projects (in the electoral division of Oxley) were included in the Queensland total program of works, for which Hospital Development Program block grants were provided: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Information is not available in the form requested. However, Table 1 below shows the number of primary producers granted unemployment benefit during the period 10 May 1976 to 2 September 1977, classified by Social Security regional office. 
Statistics showing the average period of payment are not available. Table 2 shows the number of primary producers granted unemployment benefit during each fourweek period from 10 May 1976 to 2 September 1977. 
Table 3 shows the number of primary producers granted unemployment benefit during the period 10 May 1976 to 2 September 1977, classified by type of rural industry. Statistics showing the average weekly benefit paid are not available. 
From 10 May 1976 to 2 September 1977 6,547 applications for unemployment benefit were received from primary producers and of these 4,794 or 73.2 per cent were granted. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question 
The fostering of such exchanges of staff between the public and private sectors is supported by the Government and the Department of Social Security is presently examining ways of giving effect to the Government s wishes. At this stage the Department is proceeding to identify areas for possible placements of people from the private sector or State Government Departments and to select suitable departmental officers who would benefit from exchange. 
The Department will shortly be meeting with the Public Service Board to discuss detailed arrangements for implementing the proposed exchange program. 
Pursuant to section 76a of the National Health Act 1953, 1 present the annual report on the operations of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-No later than yours. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The individual State Government requirements for staffing of nursing homes are: 
I will refer the matter to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  No doubt she will send the reply to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes). 
The Minister for Social Secuirty has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is clearly important that, as part of its responsibility for administering the Handicapped Persons' Assistance Act, my department should assess the capacities of sheltered workshops and ensure that they meet the requirements of the Act. 
The department is now finalising an analysis of returns from sheltered workshops which will help to identify requirements for upgrading services. Improved techniques for evaluating programs for handicapped persons are being developed by the department with the assistance of the Schonell Educational Research Centre of the University of Queensland. The department also works closely with the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of Disabled in promoting acceptable standards for sheltered workshops and is developing methods of improving the performance of workshops. 
However, restrictions on the types of work undertaken by sheltered workshops do not seem to me to be commensurate with the aims of the handicapped persons assistance program. Indeed I believe it would be undesirable to discourage initiative and self-development generated within the sheltered workshop movement, as this would operate to the detriment of handicapped people by reducing employment opportunities. 
As most production undertaken by sheltered workshops is on a contract or sub-contract basis, a high degree of selfregulation is inherent, since failure to meet specifications and time schedules militates against the future viability of the workshop. 
The honourable member for Mallee, as well as the honourable members for Murray, Angas and Riverina, have been very interested in this problem for some time because of the serious threat that encephalitis has imposed on the Murray Valley region. They would have been pleased to learn that in this year's Budget a further $ 100,000 was set aside to be spent in association with the State Governments on a dollar for dollar basis to control the spread of encephalitis in the Murray Valley. The Government, of course, will be spending that amount of money in association with the States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. In November-December, a total of 57 officials from the various health departments will be meeting in Mildura to draw up a further longer term program which will include mosquito abatement procedures. I am confident, and indeed my Department is confident, that the measures that have been taken will control the encephalitis problem that has been causing some worry and concern in the Murray Valley. Because of those measures we are quite certain that this program will overcome the serious threat to the tourist industry and to the health of the people who live in the region. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to extend for a further period of 12 months those provisions of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act which are due to expire on 13 December 1977. The Homeless Persons Assistance Act was introduced in December 1974 on the basis of a report by a Working Party on Homeless Men and Women, which recommended, amongst other things, that capital grants totalling up to 35m per year should be made available over a three-year period to voluntary agencies and local and statutory authorities for approved projects, such as night shelters, reception and assessment centres, hostels, flats, day centres, special clinics and detoxification units, in order to upgrade and replace existing inadequate accommodation and to build new facilities for permanently and chronically homeless men and women. 
The Act provides for capital grants to be made to eligible organisations, which are defined as non-profit organisations, local governing bodies and charitable or benevolent trusts, towards the full cost of purchasing, constructing or renting buildings, including the purchase of furniture and equipment. It also enables the Commonwealth to pay 50 per cent of the salary of a social welfare worker employed at a homeless persons assistance centre. Approved organisations may also be paid a daily subsidy at prescribed rates for each homeless person to whom both food and accommodation are provided- 75c a dayand a subsidy- 25c a day- for each meal supplied to non-resident homeless persons. 
In accordance with one of the recommendations of the 1973 Working Party that the program should be reviewed after three years, the major provisions of the Act relating to capital and rental grants are operative until 13 December 1977. The salary and accommodation and meal subsidy provisions are not subject to the three-year prescribed period. In his second reading speech the then Minister for Social Security said that the purpose of making the legislation subject to a three-year 'prescribed period' was to ensure that the scope, value and standards of the services provided would be monitored and an assessment of the total program made prior to the expiration of the first three years of its operation. In accordance with this intention, a review of the operation of the Act has been carried out by the Department of Social Security, based on an analysis of a national sample survey of the views expressed by homeless persons and by the agencies caring for them. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has also received submissions from the Advisory Committees on Homeless Persons set up in each State to advise the Minister on matters relating to the administration of the Act. 
Briefly the conclusions reached by this review were that the operation of the Act should be extended beyond 13 December and that the provisions of the Act should be amended in such ways as to enable it to support a wider range of facilities for homeless people, if and when additional funds are available. 
In accordance with our policy of concentrating welfare assistance on people in the greatest need, the Government is in favour of making the Act more effective in meeting the needs of a wider range of homeless people. 
At this stage, however, the Government has not yet reached a decision on the proposals of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health, one of which is that the homeless persons assistance program should become part of a wider 'Sheltered Accommodation Program', administration of which might be devolved to the State governments. 
In the circumstances, it would be premature to consider widening the scope of the Act at the present time, but it is necessary to extend its operation beyond 13 December 1977 if only to authorise continuation of subsidies for which funds have already been provided. For the information of honourable members, capital grants totalling $8.4m have been approved under the Act to date. Of this amount $2.1m had actually been expended by 30 June 1977, $5. 3m has been allocated for expenditure in 1977-78 and the remaining $lm will be carried forward to 1978-79. 
Expenditure on rental and salary subsidies for the period from 13 December 1974 to 30 June 1977 totalled $377,958. The appropriation for these subsidies in 1977-78 is $275,000. Expenditure under the National Welfare Fund on accommodation and meal subsidies for the period from 13 December 1974 to 30 June 1977 amounted to $1.7m. Estimated expenditure on these subsidies in 1977-78 is $800,000. As at 30 June 1977, financial support was being given towards the running costs of 95 homeless peoples centres, with a total bed capacity of 3, 102. Total overnight occupancy of these beds during 1976-77 was 785,484. In addition 668,548 meals were served to non-resident homeless people. Salary subsidies were paid for 34 social welfare workers. 
In legislating to extend the operation of the Act in its present form for a further period of one year, the Government has in mind that suggestions for widening the ambit of the Act should receive further consideration in the context of the 1978 Budget. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Working Party recommended the adoption of a Voluntary Code of Advertising of Alcoholic Beverages which reads: 
1 ) Advertisements for alcoholic drinks should be directed only to the adult audience. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In relation to (a) the information requested is not available within my Department and State Government health authorities were approached to obtain the necessary information. Information has now been received and is as follows: 
New South Wales: Not maintained. It is estimated that there are approximately 280 pharmacists on the staff of public hospitals in New South Wales at present. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's Question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The quarantine conditions for importation of bovine semen from Canada require inter alia a certificate that blue tongue has not occurred in Canada up to the date of dispatch of the consignment of semen. In March 1976 the Canadian Department of Agriculture advised that evidence of the disease had been detected. That country could therefore no longer meet Australia's quarantine certification requirements. Semen importations from Canada therefore ceased. These requirements and other Australian quarantine provisions relating to semen imports are well known to Canadian authorities. 
The cessation of Canadian semen imports has created substantial problems for certain Australian breeders and has stopped, for at least the time being, access by Australia to an important source of improved genetic material. The situation is being kept under review. 
See ( 1 ). The present position is that Canadian bovine semen is not a permitted import into Australia. 
My Department's records show that the amount of semen imported into Australia from Canada, by breed, over the period 1973-74 to 1973-76 is as set out in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) For the purpose of answering this question, a community health centre 'is defined as a community located facility which has the characteristics of a general health service as distinct from a specialised service (e.g. mental health, alcoholism), which provides two or more categories of service (e.g. medical, nursing, therapy, counselling), and which may or may not provide general practitioner services. 
The following information has been provided or confirmed by the relevant State health authorities: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Part 10 of the Medical Benefits Schedule lists the Item Numbers of all operations for which medical benefits are payable. Some of these operations require the administration of anaesthetics whilst others do not. 
Parts 3, 4 and 5 of the Medical Benefits Schedule list all Item Numbers for the administration of anaesthetics and associated anaesthetic procedures for which medical benefits are payable. The administration of anaesthetics and the associated procedures under these parts may be in conjunction with an operation listed in Part 10 or with some other service not listed in Pan 10. For example, there are other services in the Medical Benefits Schedule (e.g. Obstetric services Pan 2, Miscellaneous procedures Pan 6) which may or may not necessitate anaesthesia. 
In 1975-76, the latest figures available, Medibank paid medical benefits on 2.015 million operations (Pan 10 of Medical Benefits Schedule). From the information available, it is not possible to identify which of these operations involved an anaesthetic. For the same period, benefits were paid by Medibank for 884,000 anaesthetic and associated procedures. (Parts 3, 4 and 5 of the Medical Benefits Schedule). Similarly it is not possible to identify which of these procedures were undertaken in conjunction with an operation. 
Because of the change to the health insurance arrangements from 1 October 1976, no comparable figures are yet available from Medibank or the private health insurance funds in respect of 1 976-77. 
Prior to the introduction of Medibank on 1 July 1 975, the statistics from 1 97 1 , after the introduction of the common fee concept for individual parts of the Schedule, were based on sampling methods. These methods varied between the years and amongst the States having regard to the quality of the data supplied by the private health insurance funds on a voluntary basis. 
In addition the statistics were pan of a system designed to monitor the level of observance of the common or schedule fee and not to provide incidence figures. 
In view of the above, it is not possible to provide the number of operations requiring anaesthetics as requested by the honourable member. 
Figures are not held by the Health Insurance Commission or the Department of Health in respect of operations performed on standard hospital patients. These patients are not charged for operations and therfore no medical benefits are available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) Yes. My quarantine officers in Western Australia did investigate the incident. Investigations showed no quarantine risk because the material seized from the refugee boat had been burned under full quarantine supervision, the ashes raked and then reburned, still under supervision, at the Broome Shire Council rubbish tip. 
See (3) and( 4) 
The facilities existing at Broome to destroy quarantine material include a hospital incinerator to handle small articles, and incineration under supervision in a fenced rubbish area. This latter facility is considered to provide a safe method of disposal for goods too large for the hospital incinerator. 
Procedures in operation provide that quarantine material on these vessels is to be collected in heavy duty plastic bags. All articles are to be thoroughly burnt ensuring that all canned goods and materials in containers are properly punctured prior to burning. Ashes are then raked over, sprayed with diesolene and reburned 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The principal programs which are administered by my Department and can readily be identified in monetary terms in the electoral divisions of Chifley, Macarthur, Macquarie, Mitchell, Parramatta, Prospect and Werriwa are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On Wednesday 13 July 1977 the Salmonella Reference Laboratory of the Institute of Medical and Veterinary Science, Adelaide, advised my Department that Salmonella bredeney had been isolated from a number of infants with gastro-enteritis, and there appeared to be a link with one or more brands of infant formula dried milk powders. The Commonwealth Health Laboratory in Launceston had independently and simultaneously detected the same relationship. 
On Saturday, 1 6 July, the Victorian Department of Health notified my Department that it had succeeded in tracing the source of the trouble to the Tongala factory, and immediate action had been taken to recall the products. 
On Monday, 18 July, urgent notification was passed to health authorities in the States and Territories and, as it had become clear over the weekend that export material which was the concern of the Department of Primary Industry was implicated, that Department was also urgently advised. On that same day an urgent meeting of State and Commonwealth officers was held with industry representatives in Melbourne to confirm the emergency action already taken and to initiate a thorough investigation into all aspects of the problem. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Traffic Injury (Standing) Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council has the following Terms of Reference: 'To inquire into and advise the Council through the Public Health Advisory Committee on: 
factors of medical significance in the causation and prevention of injuries in traffic accidents; and 
the medical aspects of the rescue of the victims of traffic accidents, their resuscitation and subsequent management.' 
This Committee has made various recommendations on a variety of matters concerned with road trauma. However, due to the effect of current economic constraints and staffing limitations on the Secretariat, the activities of the Committee are at present in abeyance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department does not have this information but has collated the following for the honourable member from information provided by appropriate State and Territory health authorities: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An investigation into the waiting times has shown that a pensioner who applies for a hearing test at the National Acoustic Laboratories' Perth office could expect to wait up to 10 months for an appointment. Children are tested within 3 to 4 weeks of application. 
There are several reasons for the long waiting periods for pensioners. Children are given priority because early treatment is essential to successfully overcoming their handicap and children's appointments are necessarily longer than adults'. Other factors are staff ceilings, increasing numbers of new cases and the additional time that is needed to fit aids of increased technical complexity. 
Pensioners in other capital cities wait approximately: 7 months in Sydney 10 months in Melbourne 6 weeks in Brisbane 6 weeks in Adelaide 6 weeks in Hobart 
In all capital cities, children wait from 2 to 4 weeks. 
The staff ceiling for the National Acoustic Laboratories' program was increased for 1977-78 and additional staff have been recruited. Consequently a reduction in the waiting time for pensioners is expected by early 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( I ), (2) and (3) According to information held by my Department which has been confirmed with the Electoral Office for the division of Oxley, the following nursing homes are located in that division or the patients accommodated are enrolled in the division of Oxley. For the sake of completeness homes approved under both the National Health Act and the Nursing Home Assistance Act are shown. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) From a recent survey of ready-prepared pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions the proportions are: 
90.3 percent. 
9.7 percent. 
Year ended 30 June 1977 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimates of expenditure under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme for 1977-78 were prepared on the basis of drug costs current at that time and they contained no provision for unknown drug cost increases. However, an amount of $ 1 .9m was included to meet the cost of price increases that had recently been approved but had not at that time had an impact on the Scheme. As was mentioned in the Treasurer's Budget statement, the total increase reflects mainly the prescribing of higher cost drugs and an increase in utilisation of benefits. 
Rural Health in Australia (Question No. 1773) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The report contains a number of proposals on each of the major aspects of rural health and also puts forward a number of relatively inexpensive proposals which could be adopted as short-term measures. 
Ways in which the recommendations can be implemented, as the economic situation allows, are being investigated. Detailed work has been undertaken on a number of the proposals with a view to their implementation as soon as circumstances permit. As most of the recommendations contained in the report require State Government action and agreement to their implementation, State views have been sought These consultations are continuing. 
In their totality, the recommendations contained in the report are intended to improve the availability and accessibility of rural health services. One of the major disadvantages faced by people living in country areas is in obtaining necessary health care; they may, for example, be obliged to travel long distances to hospitals or specialist services. The development of initiatives that could improve the availability of certain health services and lessen the costs of travelling to obtain health care is, therefore, seen as the most important area for action. 
Health Services Planning and Research program: Grants to Victoria  (Question No. 1812) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Victoria was allocated $24,000 from the $360,000 available in 1977-78 for grants to State authorities under the Health Services Planning and Research Program. The allocation was less than to any other State. 
In determining the level of allocations for 1977-78 the Hospitals and Health Services Commission took into account expenditure incurred by States during 1976-77 and funds unspent by them at 30 June 1977. 
Victoria brought forward from previous years $16,164. Consequently, with the $24,000 granted in 1977-78 the level of Commonwealth funds available to Victoria for health services planning and research is $40, 1 64. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, in general. In any business organisation occasional errors take place. When each occurs immediate action is taken to overcome any deficiency revealed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Ancient Order of Foresters in Victoria, Friendly Society- A. F. Hart, S. G. Simmons, R. J. Morrison, A. M. Sievers, N. Phillips, L. Hickey, J. A. Richardson, M. G. Plumridge. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The major programs which are administered by my Department and can readily be identified in nonetary 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society in Queensland-M. L. Weller, R. T. Yates, H. R. Morton, A. C. Sweeper, G. B. Taylor, B. M. Weller T. J. Crisp. 
-The figures used by  Mr Justice  Ludeke were only indicative figures, as indeed they only could be when the inquiry was being held. If there is any over-estimate on the part of  Mr Justice  Ludeke, these over-estimates will be taken into account in the inquiry that will take place next year for the setting of fees for 1979. The amount involved is not terribly great over the course of a full year. It was a quarterly figure-an indicative figure-rather than a full year figure. Both the Government and the Australian Medical Association agreed that they would abide by the determination of  Mr Justice  Ludeke with respect to medical fees. So there will be no re-opening of the inquiry, but the figures will be taken into account in the inquiry that will ensue next year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On 9 February 1 977, the part-time Quarantine Officer at Broome informed the Director of Health, Western Australia, that a rat had been seen on the M.V.  San Pedro Bay.  The Director instructed the Quarantine Inspector, North- West Ports, to investigate the report. On 10 February 1977, the Quarantine Inspector, North-West Ports, reported that the vessel was infested with rats and cockroaches and that in his opinion the vessel required fumigation. It is not departmental policy in Western Australia to order fumigation of vessels at outports. Fremantle is the only Western Australian port which can issue an International Deratizanon Certificate; fumigation facilities are not available at these ports, and in any event, fumigation as a rodent control measure is a dangerous and costly procedure which is not recommended where adequate alternatives exist. (World Health Organisation publication 'Vector Control in International Health', page 72 refers). The  San Pedro Bay  is a small (21 metre) vessel, has no holds and has minimal crew accommodation at deck level. Accordingly, and in the light of the report of the Quarantine Inspector, North-West Ports, he was instructed on 1 1 February to treat the vessel by trapping and poisoning. The operation was commenced on the same day. The Quarantine Inspector, North-West Ports, reported on 14 February 1977 that no rats were caught or found poisoned. 
Under long-standing instructions which are operative in Western Australia, fumigation orders may only be issued with the specific approval of the Director or the Assistant Director (Medical). A fumigation order was not issued by the Director or the Assistant Director (Medical) in relation to the M.V.  San Pedro Bay  nor was the issue of an order approved by either officer. In response to an inquiry on 11 February 1977 the Director advised the owner that fumigation was not being considered. On 16 February 1977, following advice for the owner that wharf workers in Broome would not service the vessel or allow it to come alongside, because they had heard that it was rat infested the Director advised the wharfinger, Broome, by telegram that there was no quarantine objection to the vessel being brought alongside provided that the vessel was fendered from the wharf for a distance of not less that three feet; that it either anchored out at night or if alongside, her gangway was constantly well lit and all ropes from the vessel to the wharf were fitted with adequate rat guards. Some days later the vessel was fumigated by a team taken to Broome from Perth by the owner. The Director assumed that in the light of his instructions and advice to the owner, the fumigation was being arranged at the initiative of the owner to overcome continuing union objections to working the vessel. However, in early April, the owner approached the Department seeking recovery of the fumigation costs. The Director subsequently ascertained that the master of the  San Pedro Bay  had been directed in writing to proceed to Fremantle to enable his vessel to be fumigated. The letter had been signed by a medical practitioner acting as a locum for the Quarantine Medical Officer in Broome. The locum was not a Quarantine Officer.  Dr Gilbert,  the doctor who signed the written instruction, has advised in writing that his signature was requested by the Quarantine Inspector, North-West Ports, who informed him that there was evidence of an excessive number of rats on board the ship and that fumigation was mandatory under the circumstances.  Dr Gilbert  accepted the Quarantine Inspector's statements and directions to be representative of normal procedure. 
The existence of the written direction referred to in (2) was not known to the Director of Health or the Assistant Director (Medical) until early April. The direction was not withdrawn by the doctor who signed it. In a letter dated 23 June 1977 to the Director of Health, the legal representatives for the owner of the vessel advised, in part, 'Inspector Toomer instructed those on board the  San Pedro Bay  to ignore the fumigation order and to proceed to Port Hedland where he would supervise the fumigation'. The firm which undertook the fumigation has advised that no rats were seen before or after the fumigation and that no rat carcasses were found. 
See (2) above. There was no disease risk to wharf workers in working the vessel. Trapping, poisoning and fumigation operations on the vessel had failed to locate a single rat. 
The  San Pedro Bay  was fumigated. The vessel was granted pratique on 7 February 1977 and subsequently issued with a Derat Exemption Certificate. On 2 1 July 1 977 a full report on all aspects of the incident was sought from the Quarantine Inspector, North- West Ports. The Quarantine Inspector, North- West Ports, has advised that because of his suspension from duty it is impossible for him to report on the San Pedro Bay. The claim from the owner for recovery of costs of fumigating the  San Pedro Bay  has been referred to the Deputy Crown Solicitor, Perth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) AMA (NSW) Health Fund Limited-G. K. Williams, G. S. Rieger, C. S. H. Reed, P. S. Cocks, E. J. Lines, G. Douglas, R. J. M. Dunlop, I. S. Collins. 
Australian Catholic Guild Friendly Society-.!. J. Dryden, G. Azoulay, R. J. Fleming, A. Scarrabelotti, P. B. Ward, P. H. Carter, F. Woodhouse, P. J. Creagan, N. G. Martin, W. P. Brennan, R. Carter, O. M. Leis, F. A. Reader, W. L. Stone. 
Broken Hill and District Hospital Contribution Fund- W. 0'Neil (snr), A. Treglown, L. Sly, E. Snodgrass, S. Dunlevy, 
Thomson, W. O'Neil (jnr), N. Dunlevy 
Cessnock District Hospital Contribution Fund- N. Mitchel, R. Slack, J. Faulds, L. 0'Neil K. Allen, F. Hallam, A. Walters. 
The Commercial Banking Company Health Society-J. D. Sharpe, F. C. Lewis, E. R. Winslow, R. A. Guthrie, D. M. Cowper, G. J. Watkins, K. T. J. O'Connor. 
Commonwealth Bank Health Society- I. Ronaldson, J. Flynn, L. Edwards, W. Lewis, M. Reidy, B. Skinner, P. Frost. 
The Grand United Order of Oddfellows Friendly Society of New South Wales-J. H. Lazarus, B. L. Wilson, N. Davidson, R. E. Hulbert, R. H. Erskine, H. R. Hamblen, W. Dempster, F. J. Perry, H. E. Cook, J. W. Pennington, J. J. Olsen, J. L. Hawkins. 
Health Insurance Commission (Medibank Private)- G. Howells  (Chairman), R. G. Williams (General Manager),  R. 
Kronborg (Deputy Chairman), C. R. Wilcox, A. E. Hartshorn, Sister Paulina Pilkington, H. West. 
Hibernian Australasian Catholic Benefit Society of New South Wales-J. O'Keeffe, W. Davoren, J. Meekin R. Wall, V. Breen, P. Dwyer, D. Taylor, W. Boland, E. Waring, J. Pyke,K.O'Regan. 
The Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia- F. Allen, R. Hoffmans, E. Brown, R. Marshal, A. Duckworth, D. Sortwell, J. Gibson, J. Westephalen, P. McReady, B. Woods, P. Oakman, F. Blackwood, W. H. Garing, R Drew, W. Ruscoe, K. Gain, T. Ward, F. McDonough, A. Woods, H. Beer, N. Meers, E. Callaway, R. Ramkine, J. Evans, E. Upton, K. Huenerbein, E. Wilson, H. Norton. 
The Hunter Medical Benefit Fund Limited- F. J. Jones, J. Hamilton, E. Woods. 
Independent Order of Oddfellows of the State of New South Wales- J. Boulton, C. Lindgren, J. Kimble, J. Hanna, P. Dominish, E. Ellis, A. Watson, E. Watson, J. Dick, A. Carter. 
New South Wales District No. 85, Independent Order of Rechabites, Salford Unity, Friendly Society-E. R. Horner, R. C. Hayward, P. Mac L. Crawford, P. A. Sheldon, A. T. Sinclair, G. E. Hocking, A. J. Thompson, W. J. Kalaitzis, E. A. Evenden, F. W. Dixon. 
The Kurri Kurri Maitland Hospital Contribution Fund- A. J. Frame, E. Bensen, R. Brown, D. Pryor, A. MacKintosh, G. Winter, U. Butler. 
The Lysaght Hospital and Medical Club-N. Burke, L. Flynn, C. Ainsworth, R. Finlay, W. Kiley, J. Pedersen, G. Canton, R. Hayter, C. Davy. 
Local Government Employees' Medical and Hospital Club-R. Bury, B. Evans, K. Knight, M. Sheils, J. Burns, D. 
Brandon, J. McAllan D. Hains, T. Crotty, J. Smellie, W. Mansfield, J. Merchant, J. Drylie, P. Henery, B. Chandler. 
The Manchester Unity Independent Order of Oddfellows, Friendly Society, in New South Wales-J. Lewis, R. Haningion, M. Casey, F. Matthews, W. Gennings, J. Creaney, C. Johnson, J. Ford, R. Small, R. Holloway, L. Dagger, T. Stephens. 
Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited- J. L. Amies, J. F. Lee, D. A. Brown, H. Stuart-Patterson, W. H. Collins, N. L. Sherwood, J. M. Gosper, J. W. C. Wyett, A. K. Lavis, D. Braham, J. P. McPhee, R. S. Cohen, D. P. Rowe, H. H. Gibson, D. J. Walters, A. M. Johnson, A. H. Braby, J. H. McDowell, H. Budd, A. H. Pollard, R. S. Day, W. F. Simmons, G. L. Howe, A. W. O. Young. 
NIB Health Funds Limited-J. F. Moore, T. Ward, R. C. Millington, R. G. Hooker, R. Peddie, J. Graham, F. Smith, E. Johnston, W. J. Menzies. 
New South Wales Teachers' Federation Health SocietyA. J. Estep, J. George, B. Manefield, C. Rennie, J. Hennessy, E. Sheehan B. Watterson, J. Schofield, A. L. Vance, M. Taylor, J. A. Doyle. 
NSW Railway and Transport Employees' Hospital Fund-A. H. Watson, R. A. Ranger, M. E. Hazleton, T. P. Foley, L. Doyle, C. J. Arnold, L. W. Dyer, D. F. Munro, R.H. Wright, H. R.Hyde. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) All of the figures in the following tables have been provided by the respective State or Territorial hospital or health authorities. In many cases only a limited amount of information is available and to date no information has been received from Victoria. The Victorian hospital authorities have advised that the information will be furnished as soon as possible and on its receipt I will be pleased to forward it on to the honourable member. 
Some hospital authorities are unable to separate or have experienced difficulties in separating out from total operating costs, those costs associated with non-inpatient (outpatient) services. Accordingly, the methods used to produce the tables vary from State to State and the figures are not entirely comparable; nor is it possible to produce a meaningful figure for Australia as a whole from the information supplied. Further, there is variation between States as to their ability to segregate costs into the categories referred to in part (2 ) of the honourable member's question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has established an  ad hoc  sub-committee on lead in petrol and this has met several times to consider certain health aspects of the fifth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. Lead filters have also come under close examination by the committee. 
Council will receive the committee's report at its 84th Session to be held on 24-25 November 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. I presume the honourable member is referring to a letter addressed personally by the Director-General of Health to the then Director of the Western Australian Division of the Department,  Dr J.  Bryan Mathieson, on 6 March 1974. The letter was to clarify for  Dr Mathieson  the Director-General's understanding of the Western Australian Public Service Inspector's attitude, in broad terms, to the question of future charges under section 55. In no way could this letter be construed as a direction. 
Yes. 
See(l). 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
At 30 June 1977 there were 933,000 age pensioners eligible to receive fringe benefits and 272,300 age pensioners not eligible. In addition, there were 20,700 wives of age pensioners in receipt of a wife's pension and eligible to receive fringe benefits and 4,400 not eligible. 
-I seek the indulgence of the House to foreshadow an amendment not included in the second reading speech of this Bill. As announced by  Senator the  Honourable Margaret Guilfoyle, Minister for Social Security, the Government has decided to make provisions for a benefit to be paid to supporting fathers on the same basis as supporting mothers. In the Committee stage I shall move an appropriate amendment to the Bill. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Associated Pulp and Paper Makers' Council Medical Benefits Fund/Associated Pulp and Paper Makers' Council Hospital Benefits Fund 
T. O'Hern; A. Dykstra; L. Flemming; G. A. .Spinks; R. Emin; K. T. Dawkins; E. H. Newman; B. R. Bugg; A. Keygan; B. Douglas; L. T. Nutting; T. J. Keating; E. Wilson; A. C. Haberle; R. Burns; K. A. McKercher; E. R. Mitchell; G. Bin; K. O. Gabbedy; V. W. Breaden; B. A. Polden D. A. French; B. R. Fraser, L. Bloom; D. I. Bissett. 
I will take note of the point raised by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  which essentially seeks to give discretion to the Minister. I will make sure that the request from the honourable member is passed on to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  I think I have comprehended the desire of the honourable member to ensure that the legislation has a degree of flexibility to cater for serious cases that arise from time to time. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
I do not have the figures here. I will take the question on notice and try to supply the information to the honourable member. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 13 (Non-payment for 6 weeks of unemployment benefit in case of persons ceasing education) 
-I move: 
After clause 2, insert the following new clause: '2a. ( 1) Part IVAAA of the principal Act is repealed and the following Pan substituted: 
"PART IVAAA-SUPPORTING PARENTS ' BENEFITS 
83aaa. (1) In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears- ' beneficiary ' means a person in receipt of a benefit; 'benefit' means a benefit under this Part, and includes an allowance by way of supplementary assistance; 'child' means a child under the age of 16 years; 'supporting father' means a man (whether married of unmarried) who- 
has the custody, care and control of a child who has attained the age of 6 months, being a child- 
of whom that man is the father; or 
ii) in the case of a man who is a married man living apart from his wife or a man who has ceased to live with a woman as her husband on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to her-who was an adopted child of, or in the custody, care and control of, that man on the relevant date; 
is not living with, and for a period of at least 6 months has not been living with, a woman as her husband on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to her; and 
in the case of a married man- is living apart from his wife and has been so living apart for a period of at least 6 months, but does not include a man who is qualified to receive a pension under Pan III, or a benefit under Part VII, of this Act, a service pension under the  Repatriation Act  1920 or an allowance under the  Tuberculosis Act  1948 or is in receipt of a benefit provided by a State that, in the opinion of the Director-General, is similar to a benefit provided by the State that is an approved benefit within the meaning of the  States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act  1968; 'supporting mother' means a woman (whether married or unmarried) who- 
a ) has the custody, care and control of a child who has attained the age of 6 months, being a child who- 
was born of that woman; or 
in the case of a woman who is a married woman living apart from her husband or a woman who has ceased to live with a man as his wife on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to him- was an adopted child of, or in the custody, care and control of, that woman on the relevant date; 
is not living with, and for a period of at least 6 months has not been living with, a man as his wife on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to him; and 
in the case of a married woman- is living apart from her husband and has been so living apart for a period of at least 6 months, but does not include a woman who is qualified to receive a pension under Part III or IV, or a benefit under Part VII, of this Act, a service pension under the  Repatriation Act  1920 or an allowance under the  Tuberculosis Act  1948 or is in receipt of a benefit provided by a State that is an approved benefit within the meaning of the  States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act  1 968; 'supporting parent' means a person who is a supporting father or a supporting mother. 
For the purposes of the definition of 'supporting mother' in sub-section ( 1 )- 
the relevant date, in relation to a woman referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of that definition, is whichever of the following dates is applicable to the woman or, if both dates so applicable, the later date: 
the date on which the woman commenced to live apart from her husband; 
the date on which the woman ceased, or last ceased, to live with a man as his wife on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to him; and 
a woman shall be deemed not to be, or not to have been, living with a man as his wife on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to him, being a man who has been convicted of an offence, during any period during which the man is, or was, imprisoned in connexion with the offence, being a continuous period of not less than 6 months, whether or not the period commenced before the conviction. 
For the purposes of the definition of 'supporting father' in sub-section ( 1 )- 
the relevant date, in relation to a man referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of that definition, is whichever of the following dates is applicable to the man, or if both dates are so applicable, the later date: 
the date on which the man commenced to live apart from his wife; 
the date on which the man ceased, or last ceased, to live with a woman as her husband on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to her, and 
b) a man shall be deemed not to be, or not to have been, living with a woman as her husband on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to her, being a woman who has been convicted of an offence, during any period during which the woman is, or was, imprisoned in connexion with the offence, being a continuous period of not less than 6 months, whether or not the period commenced before the conviction. 
For the purposes of this Part, a child who is being maintained by a person shall be deemed to be a child of whom the person has, and had at any time when the person was maintaining the child, the custody, care and control. 
In this Part- 
a reference to a woman who is living apart from her husband shall be read as a reference to a woman who is so living apart by reason that she and her husband are estranged; and 
a reference to a man who is living apart from his wife shall be read as a reference to a man who is so living apart by reason that he and his wife are estranged. 
For the purposes of the application of a provision of Part IV in relation to a supporting parent in accordance with section 83AAE or 83AAG that provision shall be read as if- 
the benefit of the supporting parent were a pension under that Pan; 
any reference to sub-section (4) of section 59 were a reference to sub-section (4) of this section; 
any reference to section S9A were a reference to section 83AAB,' 
any reference in section 61 to sub-section (1) of secdon 60 were a reference to section 83AAC; 
any reference to a payment under Pan IV were a reference to a benefit; and 
f) any reference to sub-section ( 5 ) of section 74 included a reference to section 83AAH. 
A reference in this Pan to a period of residence in Australia shall be read as including a reference to a period of residence in an area that was, at the time of the residence, an external Territory, other than Norfolk Island. 83aab. Where a person (in this section referred to as 'the dependant') who is wholly or substantially dependent on another person (in this section referred to as 'the parent')- 
has attained the age of 16 years; 
b ) is receiving full-time education at a school, college or univesity; and 
is not in receipt of an invalid pension under Part III, this Part applies in relation to the parent as if the dependent- 
were a child; 
were in the custody, care and control of the parent; and 
had been in the custody, care and control of the parent at any time when the dependant was wholly or substantially dependent on the parent. 83aac. ( 1 ) Subject to this Part, a supporting parent is qualified to receive a benefit if the parent is residing in, and is physically present in, Australia on the date on which the supporting parent lodges a claim for the benefit and- 
a ) in the case of a woman who is a supporting mother in relation to a child born of her- that child was born while she was residing in Australia; 
in the case of a man who is a supporting father in relation to a child of whom he is the father- that child was born in Australia and that man was residing in Australia at the time of that birth; 
in the case of a married person living apart from his or her spouse -the married person was residing in Australia immediately before he or she so commenced to live apart; 
in the case of a woman who has ceased to live with a man as his wife on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to him- she was residing in Australia immediately before she so ceased or last so ceased; 
in the case of a man who has ceased to live with a woman as her husband on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to her- he was residing in Australia immediately before he so ceased or last so ceased; 
the supporting parent has been continuously resident in Australia for a period of not less than5 years immediately preceding the date on which the claim for the benefit is lodged; or 
the supporting parent has, at any time, been continuously resident in Australia for a period of not less than 10 years. 
A reference in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of sub-section (1) to residence in Australia shall be read as including a reference to residence in an area that was, at the time of the residence, an external Territory, other than Norfolk Island. 83AAD. A benefit shall not be granted to a person who is a supporting parent unless the Director-General considers that it is reasonable that the supporting parent should have taken action to obtain maintenance from the person or persons who is or are the father or fathers, or the mother or mothers, as the case may be, of the child or children in relation to whom the first-mentioned person is the supporting parent and that that person has taken such action to obtain such maintenance as the Director-General considers reasonable. 83aae. The rate of a benefit is a rate equal to the rate of the pension (excluding supplementary assistance) that would be payable under Part IV to the supporting parent if the supporting parent were a class A widow for the purposes of that Part. 83aaf. Where a benefit is granted, it shall be paid from a date determined by the Director-General, but the date so determined shall not be prior to the date on which the claim for the benefit was lodged or later than the day that, for the purposes of Part III, is the first mentioned pay-day occurring after the date on which the claim was lodged, except where the determination of the claim has been delayed by neglect or default on behalf of the claimant, in which case the Director-General shall fix such later date of commencement as he considers reasonable in the circumstances. 83AAG. Section 61 and Divisions 3a, 4,5 (other than sec tion 68), 6 and 7 of Part IV apply in relation to a beneficiary as if the beneficiary were a widow for the purposes of that Part. 83AAH. In the event of- 
a beneficiary, being a married person, ceasing to live apart from his or her spouse; 
a beneficiary, being a woman, commencing to live with a man as his wife on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to him; or 
a beneficiary, being a man commencing to live with a woman as her husband on a  bona fide  domestic basis although not legally married to her. the beneficiary shall, within 14 days after the occurrence of the event, notify a Director accordingly. 
Penalty: $40. 
A benefit in force under Part IVaaa of the Principal Act immediately before the commencement of thissection continues in force, after the commencement of this section, as if it had been granted under the Part substituted for that firstmentioned Pan by sub-section ( 1 ) of this section. ' 
The amendment seeks to add to the Bill provisions whereby the benefits currently available to supporting mothers are extended to supporting fathers. This is to be achieved by inserting a definition of supporting father. Because the new benefit will encompass both supporting mothers and supporting fathers, it will be renamed 'supporting parent 's benefit. ' The new benefit will be payable to all fathers bringing up children on their own and will come into effect on the date the Bill received the royal assent. Fathers who have already been supporting their children for six months or more will become eligible immediately the Bill becomes law. 
The rates of the new benefit and the income test will be the same as for the existing supporting mother's benefit. A supporting father will be eligible for benefit of $49.30 a week plus $7.50 a week for each child, including a student child. In addition, a guardian's allowance of $6 a week will be payable where he has the care of a child under six years of age, or an invalid child- $4 a week if the child is over six years but not an invalid. Thus a supporting father with two children, one of whom is under six years of age may receive, subject to the income test, a total benefit of $70.30 a week. In addition, he will be able to have a separate income of $32 a week without any effect on his benefit. Where rent is paid, supplementary assistance of up to $5 a week may also be payable. Eligible supporting fathers will also be entitled to the range of Commonwealth fringe benefits that are available to supporting mothers under existing conditions. These concessions are a reduced rental on their telephone, free hearing aid and funeral benefit. 
The Government will be discussing the new benefit with the States to gain their acceptance of the inclusion of supporting fathers on the same terms as supporting mothers. Two States- Western Australia and South Australia- already provide assistance to this group. In the meantime, in those States in which State government assistance is not provided in the first six months, a supporting father will be eligible to claim special benefit which is paid at unemployment benefit rates and subject to the unemployment benefit income test. Due to the lack of data on supporting fathers- their number, the size of their families, their income distribution- and a lack of knowledge as to the number likely to seek assistance and the period for which they would seek it, it is not possible to estimate the exact cost of paying supporting fathers the same benefits as are available to supporting mothers. It is estimated, however, that the cost of a supporting father's benefit would be of the order of $ 10m in a full year,and$6.5min 1977-78. 
I would like to make some reply to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  on my own behalf because I believe that he is missing a point, that is that when school leavers leave school they have been accustomed to receiving pocket money of some sort. Under the old arrangement they went straight on to unemployment benefit. In some instances parents have complained that this was not good so far as the attitude of the children was concerned. In the parents' view, they were entitled to a social service unemployment benefit which tended to kill their desire or initiative to take a job. So I do not think there will be the objection that the honourable member for Prospect says there will be, because I have found that many parents were concerned that their children became eligible for unemployment benefit when they felt that the children should not be tempted in this way. I think that the honourable member will find that on 10 December the people will not be as sensitive to this issue or will not be as inclined to believe that the Australian Labor Party is the salvation that he believes it is. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. However, my Department has reviewed the problem areas in an endeavour to make the best use of available resources and to identify essential additional staffing needs. It is proceeding to recruit more staff for this purpose. 
(a) The increasing requirement for quarantine services at Sydney Airport (Kingsford Smith) has presented particular problems. A recent increase in staff together with a rearrangement of shift conditions has enabled the work to be performed with only minimal delays. Heavy overtime commitments are still necessary on a regular basis. 
The quarantine workload at Melbourne Airport (Tullamarine) occurs primarily in the early morning and is adequately serviced by a morning shift Aircraft arriving later are dealt with by a skeleton staff supplemented by morning shift workers on rostered overtime. Because of staff limitations the number of staff on the afternoon and night shifts has not been brought up to a level which would be necessary to avoid this routine overtime commitment 
Because of increases in shipping movements in the north-west additional full time quarantine positions have been established in the ports of Geraldton, Dampier and Port Walcott to improve surveillance in the region. Special measures have been initiated to cope with landings by foreign fishing vessels and Vietnamese vessels along the north-west coastline. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not within the power of the Government to direct State governments to collect patient contributions for pharmaceuticals dispensed at recognised hospital outpatient departments. However, I have instructed my Department to undertake, in collaboration with State Government health authorities, an examination of the issues and implications involved in recognised hospital pharmacy dispensing, and to report to me. 
It is also relevant to note that in three States and the Australian Capital Territory, privately insured persons who attend a recognised hospital outpatient unit are charged an outpatient fee. The Government will adopt an attitude of full co-operation with the other State governments should they also wish to introduce outpatients charges for insured persons. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) During 1976-77 the Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Bureau agreed to price increases which will increase Government expenditure by $7.43m for a full year. Price reductions obtained will reduce Government expenditure by $1.29m fora full year 
The price increases were agreed to for 725 benefit items and in each case up to 12 different manufacturers' brands of the item had the price increased. The price reductions related to six benefit items. 
The detailed information requested by the honourable member would require considerable resources to compile and the information would occupy something approaching 100 pages. I am not prepared to allocate resources for preparation of such a detailed reply, but should the honourable member be interested in some particular drugs I would be pleased to see what information can be readily supplied. 
Commonwealth Funding of Education Projects in Queensland (Question No. 1787) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the following table figures in respect of periods prior to the introduction of the hospitals cost-sharing arrangements in 1975-76 relate to public hospitals. Figures for 1975-76 and 1976-77 are in respect of those public hospitals recognised for the purposes of the cost-sharing arrangements. Prior to these arrangements, patients were generally classified according to the type of ward in which they were accommodated. Under the cost-sharing arrangements, patients are classified as hospital patients or private patients irrespective of the ward in which they are accommodated. 
The sources of the figures are as follows: 1972- 73- Figures published by the Commonwealth Department of Health, September 1975, in 'Public and Private Hospitals Statistical Summary 1971-72 and 1972-73'. 1973- 74 and 1974-75-Figures provided to the Commonwealth Department and of Health by respective States and Territories. 1975- 76- Figures based on information submitted by recognised hospitals to the Health Insurance Commission under the cost-sharing arrangements and for the period of 1975-76 during which those arrangements were operative. The dates of entry of the States and Territories into the cost-sharing arrangements were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In line with the Government's policy of encouraging the establishment of Health Maintenance Organisations (HMOs) on an experimental basis, a working party on HMOs was formed early in 1 976 within my Department. 
Guidelines have been developed to assist planners wishing to establish an HMO to meet the requirements of the National Health Act in regard to the present universal insurance arrangements. These guidelines are available in handbook form from my Department. 
Discussions have been held with the Australian Medical Association (AMA). In January this year, following a report by the Federal Treasurer of the AMA on a brief study tour of HMOs in the United States of America, the SecretaryGeneral of the AMA announced that the AMA is willing to co-operate with the Government or other interested parties in any pilot study to evaluate prepaid health programs (Le. HMOs) and that the Federal Council of the AMA has adopted no fixed policy for or against prepaid health plans at this stage. 
In Adelaide, the South Australian Branch of the AMA is conducting a feasibility study of HMOs as they might apply to Australia. This study is supported by the Commonwealth with funds made available under its Health Services Planning and Research Program. 
I have written to State Health Ministers informing them of developments and of the Government's interest in seeing that HMOs are given a trial in this country; all have expressed interest in the HMO concept 
State health authorities have been made aware of developments. 
In response to enquiries, my Department has prepared an information kit comprising copies of selected papers for HMOs, an extensive bibliography and the handbook of guidelines mentioned earlier. This kit is supplied to persons or organisations who write to the Department expressing a genuine interest in HMOs. 
To date, these kits have been given to about thirty inquirers and at least two feasibility studies are under way with the aim of developing an operational plan. 
Aboriginal Co-operative Housing Societies  (Question No. 1791) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) Statistical information is not available for each of the last 5 years on the number of invalid pensioners aged 16 to 20 years. However, information is available in respect of invalid pensioners aged 16 to 19 years. 
The following table shows that there has not been a rapid increase in the number of invalid pensioners aged 16 to 19 years in the last five years. 
I will obtain from the Minister for Social Security an answer to the detailed question put by the honourable member and provide him with the information in due course. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Fawnmac group of companies for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
-The Government has no intention whatsoever of forcing the closure of pharmacies in Australia upon the Pharmacy Guild or its membership. It has no such policy or proposal before it. Despite what the honourable member for Prospect had to say, the so-called leaked document was a document that had no status whatever with the Government. It was a working document that the Minister had not even seen. So I give a categorical denial that the Government has any such intention. But there is one thing I would like to say, and that is that this Government has done more than any government before it to assist the pharmacies of Australia. The Whitiam Government had the opportunity of implementing the Scott recommendations which became available during the life of the last government. It failed to do so. 
When this Government came to office it amended section 99 of the Health Insurance Act and provided for the independent determination of pharmacy dispensing fees when agreement was not reached between the Pharmacy Guild of Australia and the Government. It has also done more than any other government before it to assist the isolated pharmacies of this country. Rather than abolishing chemist shops it has introduced a policy for isolated pharmacies which is designed to keep the pharmacies in business. So it is a load of absolute rubbish to suggest that this Government is out to abolish this important sector of small business in Australia, and the chemists can continue to live in the confident hope that this Government will be returned on 10 December. The future prosperity of the chemists of Australia rests on the decision that the people make on 10 December. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do,  Mr Speaker.  It is true to say that I did not see this working paper before the government representatives presented that draft optional paper to the Joint Committee. The first time it was drawn to my attention was during this recent public controversy. The Government does not endorse the options put by those officials at that Committee as discussion points only, so they tell me. To avoid any further confusion in this matter I will write to every chemist in Australia and make sure that they will not be disturbed by this sort of political nonsense that is going on now. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Senate question No. 1116. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (0 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-For the benefit of the Leader of the Opposition I would like to make it clear that the national trachoma program has not been concluded. That is the first point that I want to make. Only the field eye screening team part of the program has been deferred in that area- it has been deferred, not ceased- for a period of one month. 
The ongoing aspects of the program will continue in Queensland as they are continuing elsewhere. Mass treatment for trachoma is being arranged for some 9,000 persons in the Pilbara and the Kimberley region of Western Australia. Surgery is continuing in Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia and in the Northern Territory. For the information of honourable members, over 60,000 people have been screened. The Queensland screening program has been temporarily deferred because of complaints from Queensland authorities. 
Who are the authorities? I have had a number of complaints, telegrams and telephone calls from individuals and also from the Premier and Premier's Office and also some concern expressed through his office and indirectly to me from the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement and Fisheries. I have also been informed that some Queensland Aboriginal communities have objected to some of the people engaged on the program. It has been a matter of great concern to the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmogists, to the Commonwealth Government and to me as the Minister because the only real role that we have in the program is that we provide funds under health program grants to the Royal College and certainly the College does not wish to become embroiled in any political controversy. Since there were alleged political overtones associated with the screening program, the College decided, after discussion with me to defer any further screening for at least one month unless other more satisfactory arrangements could be made. 
The  President  of the College went to north Queensland and to the Torres Strait Islands and discussed the matter with Professor Hollows, who was very reluctant to dismiss the people concerned; in fact, he refused to do so. The College felt that it had little alternative at present but to defer that aspect of the program. I am continuing my discussions with the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists in the hope that a more satisfactory alternative solution can be found to ensure that the screening program can go ahead as planned. In the meantine all other aspects of the program are going ahead. 
I have not received any specific complaints. The complaint to which the honourable gentleman referred was seen by me for the first tune in the Press this morning. The broad complaint that has come to my notice is that the people involved with the program are unacceptable to Queensland authorities because they are political activists and are unacceptable when an election campaign is being conducted. The Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists does not wish to become embroiled in a political situation. The complaint is a general one and I have not had the opportunity of discussing the matter with Professor Hollows. I would like to discuss it with him ultimately. He has been out of contact because he has been operating on Thursday Island. I have a very high regard for the work that he has done. I do not want to detract in any way from his work or the work of the Royal College. If the Leader of the Opposition is agreeable I shall seek to have incorporated in  Hansard  the Press statement that was cleared by the Royal College and me. 
Yes. I seek leave to have that statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
The answer to the first question, which is the key question, is: Not to my knowledge. I am not aware of any threat by the Queensland Government to withhold any of its facilities. The central issue is whether the Royal College of Ophthalmologists, which is conducting the program, wishes to become involved or embroiled in the political climate over the next three or four weeks. As I said earlier, discussions are still going on with the College to see whether an alternative method can be found to ensure that the screening goes on. The rest of the program is going on. The surgery and the other follow-up requirements are being met by the Queensland authorities. There is no problem whatsoever in that area. 
There is some difficulty with the two field officers who presently are assisting Professor Hollows. I do not know their names. I do not know whether they are full blood Aborigines or half blood Aborigines, but they are regarded by some Queensland people as being political activists in north Queensland. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Under the Aged Persons Hostels Act 8 grants were approved in Victoria in 1975-76 and 13 grants in 1976-77. Twelve projects have been selected for funding in 1 977-78. 
The details requested by the honourable member are provided in the following table: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act three ? rants were approved in Victoria in 1975-76 and 16 grants in 976-77. Thirty-two projects have been selected for funding in 1977-78. 
The details requested by the honourable member are provided in the following table: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is estimated that the annual cost of increasing the rent allowance (supplementary assistance) for social security pensioners from $5 to $ 10 a week would be some $8Sm. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Three research reports which have some bearing on the issues you have raised have been funded under the auspices of the Children's Services Program. These are: 
A comparative study of attachment patterns in creche and home reared two year olds; 
Distribution of attention to familiar and novel stimulation in day care and home infants; 
Three studies of language and communications in pre-school children at home and in day care centres. 
These studies have been distributed and a copy of each is available in the National Library in Canberra. 
There is nothing in the findings of these studies which would indicate that children in regular attendance in day care or related services suffer long term psychological and emotional damage. 
The World Health Organisation Chronicle recently made reference to a Report of the WHO Expert Committee on Mental Health in an article 'Child Development- Separating Fact from Fancy'. 
This article stated: 'Children are not inevitably damaged by receiving day care outside the home or by having mothers who go out to work, as was mistakenly argued by some previous WHO expert groups. It has been demonstrated that good quality day care can have positive psycho-social benefit, especially for children from seriously disadvantaged or disordered homes'. 
The findings of various research studies conducted both here and overseas indicate that there is a need for further research into the effects of environment on the psycho-social development of young children. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (4) As from 1 January 1977, recurrent assistance to pre-schools has been paid in the form of block grants to the States. 
The conditions attached to the block grants are that funding can be differentially provided between centres to ensure access to services for children from low income families and children in special need and that the States are required to distribute the funds even-handedly between Community and State sponsored pre-schools. 
The block grant makes a contribution towards the recurrent costs of pre-school services and for 1977-78 the Commonwealth has provided the States with funds which will maintain a contribution equal to that which was provided in 1976-77. In addition, the Commonwealth makes general funds available which the States can allocate according to their own priorities. Through its tax sharing legislation, the Federal Government has provided the States and local government authorities with predictable and reasonable shares of national revenues and freedom to order their own priorities. 
The total funds available to New South Wales for expenditure in 1976-77 was S8.67m. The funds available for New South Wales from the 1977-78 Budget together with the advance for 1977-78 that has already been paid total $8.80m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no double standard. Different quarantine procedures are justified for plants brought in by hand, and commercially imported cut flowers. Live plants brought in by hand for propagation undergo fumigation, treatment and observation in quarantine. Imported cut flowers, not capable of being grown, are inspected and treated if necessary. 
No. 
Yes. The quarantine procedures for import of cut flowers into Australia are stricter than anywhere else in the world. However, arrangements have been made to check to see if any further quarantine precautions are justified. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) Recurrent funds for pre-schools in the electorates of St George, Lang and Banks, and those in existence prior to the Commonwealth's involvement in pre-school funding are provided under the block funding arrangements. The exact level of funds provided to individual pre-schools within these electorates is not known as the distribution of the funds is the responsibility of the New South Wales State Government. 
Raids on Church Organisations in South Africa (Question No. 1716) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Construction to question No. 1793  (Hansard,  27 October 1977, page 2579). 
International Year of the Child (Question No. 1799) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Prime Minister initially wrote to Premiers on 22 August 1977. Further communication is now taking place with Premiers and with those Ministers nominated by Premiers to be the point of contact for the Minister for Social Security. The Government considers that planning for the International Year of the Child should be co-ordinated between Commonwealth and State governments at ministerial level to ensure maximum participation of non-government organisations. 
International Year of the Child (Question No. 1800) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) to (4) Officers of the Departments of Health, Finance, Education, Aboriginal Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Immigration, Ethnic Affairs and Social Security have met to ensure cooperative preliminary planning for the International Year of the Child. They first met on 27 May 1977. As a Committee of 
Ministers has now been set up to supervise Commonwealth involvement in the International Year of the Child, it will be possible to formalise the membership and terms of reference of the Inter-Departmental Committee. 
No. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Consultative mechanisms have been established in both Territories and are to be established in each State, for both community groups and officials to advise on the entire range of activities under the Children's Services Program. 
The honourable member's question of 16 August 1977 concerned consultative arrangements on pre-school funding. The answer I gave to that question is correct. 
Decisions on Antarctic Resources (Question Na 1876) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Exchanges of staff both professional and clerical have been under consideration by my Department on various occasions over recent years. However, due in part to difficulties associated with aspects such as staff ceilings and release and replacement of staff no proposal has yet proceeded to finality. New arrangements tor staff ceilings for officers on exchange have now been instituted. I am hopeful that appropriate exchanges can now be negotiated in the interests of officers of my Department and the public and private sectors generally. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 refer the honourable member to my answer to Senate Question No. 919 (Senate  Hansard,  3 June 1977, page 2118). Statistics of lone fathers in receipt of age or invalid pension are not available. 
Special benefit may be paid under discretionary provisions in section 124 of the Social Services Act to a lone father who is required to care for a sick or young child providing assistance is not available from friends, relatives, nursery or creche. 
The rate of benefit is the same as unemployment benefit and is subject to the income test applied to unemployment benefit. As from 1 November 1977 the rate of benefit is $49.30 a week plus $7.50 a week for each child. 
Special benefit will cease to be payable to a lone father when he becomes eligible for a supporting fathers benefitsee answer to (4). 
All organisations and governmental authorities which deliver family welfare services will advise and assist lone fathers. The names, contract points, and addresses of organisations which have been established with the principal aim of assisting single parent families, including lone fathers; are: 
New South Wales-Mr Max Wood, State  President  Parents Without partners (NSW) Inc., 32 Grosvenor Street, Sydney. (The organisation has 57 branches in NSW);  Mr Ron  Doyle, Lone Fathers Association, Room 405, Angel House, Ash Street, Sydney;  Mr R.  Wood, Australian Birthright Movement, Angel House, Ash Street, Sydney. 
Australian Capital Territory-Mr Ted Dimmick  President,  Parents Without Partners (ACT) Inc., P.O. Box 923, Civic Square, ACT. (The organisation has 4 branches in the ACT.) 
Victoria-  Ms Barbara  Steen, Parents Without Partners (Via) Inc., 164 Flinders Street, Melbourne. (The organisation has approximately 43 branches in Victoria);  Mr Alan  Hamer, Lone Fathers of Australia, c/o Brotherhood of St Laurence, 167 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Vic.;  Mr John  Austin, Lone Fathers Assistance Group, 2 Bulleen Avenue, Mitcham, Vic 
Queensland-  Mrs Gay  McDougall, State Secretary, Parents Without Partners (Qld) Inc., 21 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. (The organisation has approximately 26 branches in Queensland); Lone Parents Self Action Group of Australia, c/o  Mrs J.  Kelly, 21 Thuruna Street, Stafford; Lone Fathers Action Committee, c/o  Mr Harold  Fallon, 28 Hampton Street, Wooloongabba. 
South Australia-Ms Carol Carr, Secretary, Parents Without Partners (SA) Inc. Cresco House, 110 North Terrace, Adelaide. (The organisation has 21 branches in South Australia);  Mr Hedger,  The Supporting Fathers Association, 324 Crossroads, Clarence Park, SA. 
Western Australia-Parents Without Partners (WA) Inc., 27 James Street, Perth;  Mr Ken  Gaunt, Supporting Fathers Association, 292 Onslow Road, Shenton Park, WA. 
Tasmania-  Ms Shirley  Neverton Secretary, Parents Without Partners (Tas.) Inc, Room 12, Bank Arcade, Hobart (The organisation has 5 branches in Tasmania);  Mr Peter  Blackwell Secretary, Lone Fathers Association of Tasmania, 10 Barana Street, Mornington, Tas. (The organisation has 3 branches in Tasmania. ) 
Northern Territory-Ms Josie Coppens Secretary, Parents Without Partners (NT) Inc, P.O. Box 4290, Darwin 5794. 
Australia-wide-Mr Brian Wyllie, Chairperson, Lone Parent Federation of Australia c/o ACOSS, P.O. Box N 199, Grosvenor Street, Sydney. 
The Social Services Act is being amended to provide for payment of a benefit to supporting fathers on the same basis as supporting mothers. 
Treasurer: Pecuniary Interests in Land (Question No. 1921) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(D- 
Potable drinking waters, including mineral and spa waters: 
Before importation is permitted certification is required as follows: an up-to-date certificate of potability from the health authority of the country of origin. a recent certificate of a full mineral and bacteriological analysis by a recognised public analyst detailed information as to the source of the water. 
If claims are made on the label, approval may be required before sale from State and Territory health authorities and from authorities controlling trade practices and labelling. 
Holy water 
Such water may be released to travellers at the ports of entry at the discretion of the Commonwealth hector of Health for the State concerned without requiring written application to import. This approval refers strictly to consignments of water imported for the personal use of the traveller and his family and does not extend to consignments which may, by virtue of quantities or for other reasons, be considered as being for commercial purposes. In the latter case of course normal quarantine procedures apply. 
Water imported with aquarium fish: 
Procedures provide that if the water is clear and free from sand, soil, plants or other extraneous matter, and if within a clear plastic bag it is to be treated by the importer before disposal. An approved treatment must be employed, usually addition of copper sulphate, and treatments are monitored by an ad hoc on-the-spot checks by quarantine officers. Under any 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Senate, Question No. 1116, published in Senate  Hansard of  8 November 1977. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) A. Information showing the amount of expenditure on pensions and benefits in the Electoral Divisions of St George, Banks, Barton and Lang during 1976-77 is not available. However, the following table shows the estimated number of pensioners (including supporting mother beneficiaries) in the nominated Electoral Divisions at 30 June 1977. 
Grant made under the Commonwealth Government's program of Grants to Community Welfare Agencies (Special Assistance Scheme) in 1976-77 in the Federal Electorate of Banks. Grant totalled $ 1 ,730. 
C. (i) Children's Services Program funds projects in the four Electoral Divisions. Expenditure for 1 976-77 listed only relates to expenditure paid direct to organisations. Details of expenditure through the New South Wales State Government i.e., for pre-schools would have to be sought from that Government 
St George-$24, 187 recurrent; no capital 
Banks-$25,367 recurrent; no capital 
Barton- $ 1 8,842 recurrent; no capital 
Lang-$52,527 recurrent; $16,125 capital. 
Expenditure on the Children's Services Program in 1976-77 was as Mows: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following table has been provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and shows the identified outlay by State Governments on pre-school and child care programs for the years 1971-72 to 1975-76. Details for 1976-77 are not yet available. The figures represent amounts spent on these programs which can be identified from State Government Public Accounts; they should be regarded as approximate and may not be fully comparable between the States. State outlays include grants to local authorities made from funds provided by the Commonwealth under its Pre-schools and Child Care Program. Direct payments from the Commonwealth Government to local government authorities, which do not pass through State Government Accounts, are not included. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) A. Information showing the amount of expenditure on pensions and benefits in the Electoral Division of DiamondValley during 1975-76 and 1976-77 is not available. However, the following table shows the estimated number of pensioners (including supporting mother beneficiaries in Diamond Valley at 30 June 1 976 and 1 977. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) A. Information showing the amount of expenditure on pensions and benefits in the electoral divisions of 
In consultation with my Department, the Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Most nursing homes accommodate two types of patients; those requiring what is known as extensive care and those requiring ordinary care. The Commonwealth minimum nursing requirements differentiate between the levels of nursing required by each type of patient. 
In Victoria, however, because of the high ratio of staffing required by State Health Authorities, private nursing homes tend to accommodate almost exclusively extensive care patients. A need could therefore exist in Victoria for more nursing home accommodation for ordinary care patients. This would need a much lower staff/patient ratio than is required by the Victorian health authorities. 
In a Report published in January 1977 the Committee on Care of the Aged and Infirm ('Holmes Committee') expressed doubts as to whether, apart from some regional deficiencies, a pressing need exists to further increase the stock of self-contained units and therefore recommended cessation of capital assistance for self-contained accommodation in 1979, at the end of the current 3-year program. This will be taken into account in determining future priorities under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act. 
Unemployment: Canberra and the Northern Territory (Question No.  1886) 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961, I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
My views on  Mr Brych  have not changed. I am advised that he has no medical qualifications whatsoever and I certainly would not wish to initiate moves for him to come to Australia. There have been a number of speeches made in this Parliament, in the other House, which have been taken from evidence that was made available from New Zealand authorities, particularly the New Zealand Medical Council. Under the Health Insurance Act as it stands, benefits are payable under Medibank for services that he performs in the Cook Islands because he is authorised to practise medicine there under local law. The circumstances of his registration in the Cook Islands were quite extraordinary. Before his appeal against his deregistration in New Zealand was heard by the Supreme Court he fled to the Cook Islands and sought registration from the Medical Registration Board of the Cook Islands. It refused to register him and the Minister for Health in the Cook Islands amended an Act of Parliament to enable  Mr Brych  to be registered for the purposes of administering medical services. Benefit entitlements, however, would not extend to services provided by him in countries where he is not authorised to practise. 
I know that there is great interest in the matter in Queenland particularly because of the interest of the Premier of Queensland in  Mr Brych  and his alleged cancer cures. The Premier of Queensland needs to be reminded that the whole issue is one that assumes national importance, not just regional importance or State importance. Last year I issued two media statements warning the public that  Mr Brych  was struck off the medical register in New Zealand after he was unable to substantiate his claims that he had gained medical qualifications in Czechoslovakia; but, leaving that issue aside, one wonders why  Mr Brych  is unwilling to divulge to the world at large what he says are new methods for the treatment of cancer? Why have there been no detailed scientific evaluations of his claims and the results of the treatment he renders? Why has  Mr Brych  been unwilling to allow an adequate evaluation of his treatment? More importantly, why does  Mr Brych  restrict his services only to people who can afford to pay very expensively for his services? Surely anybody with any sense of humanity who has a cure for cancer would allow that cure and the services to be evaluated thoroughly, properly, and scientifically. So one can only confirm that the decision that was taken by the New Zealand Medical Council was right and proper. 
The Opposition has chosen to highlight two issues in the first week of this new parliamentary session- unemployment and health costs. These are two issues for which' the Opposition can claim almost complete responsibility. Let it be clearly understood that unemployment was not a problem in Australia until the Whitlam Government was elected to office in 1972 and turned the Australian economy inside out during those three years. As a result we saw unemployment rise from a little more than 2 per cent to more than 5 per cent. Clearly the Australian public sheeted home the blame to the Labor Party in the elections of December 1975 and December 1977. The Labor Government brought untold suffering to hundreds of thousands of people through its irresponsible and disastrous economic management which caused a record rate of inflation and record unemployment. The Fraser Government has already achieved remarkable success in reducing the level of inflation. 
The Government has been considering the details of the proposed isolated patients travel and accommodation scheme. Some negotiations and discussions necessarily have to take place with the States because the States have some schemes that impinge upon the proposal that we advanced during the last election campaign. I hope that the details of that scheme will be resolved in the not too distant future and that legislation will be introduced during this parliamentary session to bring the scheme into operation. I am well aware of the serious problems from which patients in isolated areas, particularly in the electorate of Leichhardt, suffer. When a patient from such an area is referred by a general practitioner to a specialist in, say, Brisbane he could have to pay hundreds of dollars for travel and accommodation. It is thought only fair and equitable that, in a system in which we have universal health insurance, some provision should be made to try to remove that financial disability from people living in isolated areas. 
Yes, I do recall issuing a challenge in May 1976 on behalf of the Government to the Australian Medical Association to institute a system of peer review or voluntary professional standards of medical audit. As a result of that challenge the AMA joined with officers of my Department and investigated similar systems which are operating overseas. They reported back to Australia and organised a seminar in Sydney last year that was attended by various sections of the medical profession throughout Australia and boycotted by one notable section of it. I attended a session of that seminar. Some systems of peer review do in fact exist in our hospital system but we do not consider that sufficient. I understand that the Federal Council of the AMA will be meeting shortly and will analyse a response to a questionnaire that the AMA sent out to its total Australian membership. The Council will report to the Government and to the profession on the progress made to date. I have no doubt whatsoever that the leaders of the AMA and the leaders of the profession are conscientiously pursuing this objective. However, I am not so confident about certain other members of the profession. 
I saw a statement by  Mr Roper,  the Victorian shadow Minister for Health, relating to the AMA charging practice in that State. One thought that he might have been a bit like Rip Van Winkle and had just awakened to the fact that since the early 1970s the AMA has circulated its members regularly on what it calls the AMA schedule of fees.  Mr Justice  Ludeke, whom we appointed recently to the Medical Fees Tribunal, with the cooperation of the AMA sets only the benefits that we would pay for services that the medical profession offers to the public. I am pleased to say that the AMA schedule of fees that has been circulated is closer now to the actual fee that has been set by the Tribunal than it was at any other time. However, the honourable member would know- indeed  Mr Roper  would know- that the Commonwealth Government has no constitutional power whatsoever to set doctors' fees; the State governments do. He needs to bear that in mind. We have no power. All we can do is to seek the co-operation of the medical profession to abide by the fees which are set. I am informed by my Department that 65 per cent of medical services charged for are charged at the scheduled fee benefit rate. I call upon all the doctors in Australia to show some moderation in the way in which they charge patients at a time when the community generally is very concerned about escalating costs in Australia. This is not a new phenomenon; it has been going on for six years. Health costs in this country have risen by 225 per cent in six years, and most of that rise occurred while members of the present Opposition were in government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No; drafting of the Model Food Act is well advanced but not yet complete. The Health Ministers have given the project a very high priority and I am hopeful that the Act will be completed for the 1979 conference. 
The Health Ministers have also directed that Uniform Food Regulations be developed to accompany the Act. 
I am well aware of the reports that have come to hand from patients who claim to have been cured by  Mr Brych.  I am also aware of some of the sad cases where survival has not been a fact of life. That will be a saying of the week. I must say that those people who benefited from seeing the Willesee program on television Channel 7 recently would understand that there have been a great number of people who have returned to Australia and have not survived. The Cancer Society of Australia undoubtedly will be meeting  Mr Brych  should he come to Australia. Certainly I would not put any impediment in the way of proper meetings and seminars if necessary taking place to enable a full discussion. Of course, there cannot be a proper evaluation of his treatment methods in such a short time. Oncologists and others who are interested in the problem of cancer treatment inform me that it takes many months, if not years, properly to analyse a method of treatment involving immunology. The only undertaking I can give the honourable member is that if there is any way in which my Department can help to ensure that meaningful discussions take place between  Mr Brych  and people who are properly qualified to discuss these matters, I will make sure that that facility is available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No firm arrangements have yet been made to recommence the survey in Queensland. However the program is continuing in New South Wales and it is expected that the survey teams will be in a position to return to Queensland at the conclusion of the wet season. 
Officers of my Department are in regular contact with the program organisers preparing the detailed plans. 
In accordance with previous undertakings the Commonwealth will be liaising with the relevant Queensland authorities to formalize the arrangements for recommencing the program in that State. 
United Nations Resolution on the Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy  (Question No. 185) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes.' The Insurance Commissioner's Third Annual Report contains the consolidated figures for (a) workers' compensation and (b) compulsory third party premiums for 1975-76. According to that Report direct premiums were: 
$851,425,000 
$429,544,000 
According to the Insurance Commissioner's Third Annual Report benefits (including legal, hospital and medical costs) paid and administration expenses and commissions for the financial year 1975-76 were: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) In October 1977  Senator Guilfoyle  received a letter from the Victorian Council For Handicapped Readers referring to a submission to the Attorney-General concerning an amendment to the Copyright Act 1 968. 
No further correspondence has been received from The Victorian Council For Handicapped Readers. 
The administration of the Copyright Act 1968 comes within the responsibility of the Attorney-General. 
I do happen to have the figures that the honourable member for Wide Bay is seeking. The Minister for Social Security keeps me very well informed in case I receive a question such as this. From 1 July 1977 to 3 1 January 1978, that is, seven months, the following appeals were upheld or partly upheld on the recommendation of the tribunals. The figures, on a percentage basis, are: New South Wales, 20 per cent; Victoria, 9.6 per cent; Queensland, 9.6 per cent; South Australia, 26 per cent; Western Australia, 10.1 percent; Tasmania, 10.5 percent; Northern Territory, 20 per cent; and the Australian Capital Territory, 6.9 per cent. The average for Australia was 12.4 percent. Since the tribunals are autonomous in the sense that they operate as independent units it is, of course, inevitable that the different views and attitudes of the members will be reflected in the statistics. However, the discrepancies are being monitored and are discussed from time to time with the tribunals. I am informed by the Minister for Social Security that the practice of monitoring the decisions of the tribunals will continue, as far as resources are available, in order to ascertain any reasons for quite large discrepancies between the States. It is a very good question and I can assure the honourable member that the Minister for Social Security is watching the situation carefully. 
The Government is prepared to offer Milan Brych an opportunity to produce evidence about his treatment of cancer, and by 'evidence' I mean scientific evidence which can be evaluated by scientific experts. The Government is anxious to ensure that if a more effective method of treating cancer really exists it is made freely available to all Australians. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, I want to make the situation with regard to  Mr Brych  absolutely clear. Leaving aside the question of whether he is a medically qualified practitioner or whether the serious charges which led to his deregistration in New Zealand were justified, let us examine the claims he has made concerning the effectiveness of his co-called new secret treatment method which he has been rendering since 1 972. 

 Mr Brych has had six years in which to produce reports and papers. This is a normal procedure for people in the scientific area of the profession. He has consistently refused to follow this practice.  His  results have been published only by way of headlines in newspapers. He has restricted his treatment to those people who can afford to pay the very high- indeed, exorbitantcharges involved. 
-Up to $20,000 or more per patient. In spite of all the doubts, the Government is prepared to do all in its power to obtain details of  Mr Brych  's methods in case they may be of benefit to cancer sufferers. The Government makes this offer to  Mr Brych:  If he will give his personal assurance to co-operate fully and to reveal every detail of his treatment- methods and case records- I will ask the Government to send an expert team to the Cook Islands to discuss the whole matter with him. Members of the team would be scientists of the highest calibre whose reputations and capacities in this field would be beyond any doubt. I am also prepared to include a distinguished layman. There must first be agreement on  Mr Brych  's pan, otherwise the exercise would be pointless and futile. Nothing could be fairer than this. The ball is now in  Mr Brych  's court. The onus of proof is now on him to respond to this offer to establish once and for all the effectiveness of his very expensive treatment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Australian Capital Territory and three States, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia currently impose charges on privately insured persons attending recognised hospital outpatient units. These charges are made on an 'all-inclusive' basis and cover the provision of any necessary medical, paramedical or nursing services, supply of drugs, etc. 
The other three States and the Northern Territory have thus far chosen not to introduce outpatient charges. At the present time information is not available that would enable an estimate to be made of the likely revenue that would result from the introduction of a $2 surcharge on pharmaceutical items supplied by outpatient departments. 
This would of course depend on the nature of the charging arrangements that were introduced. Existing outpatient charges are raised only on fully privately insured persons, and full hospital benefits coverage of the charge is therefore available in all cases. However, to place the supply of drugs from outpatient units on the same charging basis as supply from private pharmacists, the outpatient charge would need to be levied on all patients (except pensioners). Those patients not privately insured would not be able to recover their costs through a health insurance organisation. The question of what charges should be raised for nonpharmaceutical benefit items would need to be explored, as full charges for such items could represent a heavy financial burden for uninsured, low income patients. On the matter of emergency treatment, the submissions made to the Prime Minister by the Pharmacy Guild suggested that free outpatient services should be available in emergency cases, with a limit of 24 hours free coverage. 
The matter is currently under examination by my Department, but the honourable member should understand that this is not an issue for unilateral 'decision' by the Commonwealth Government. The State governments are responsible for the operation of their recognised hospitals and whether or not outpatient charges are to be made, the level and scope of any such charges, etc., are matters for decision by the State Governments. The Commonwealth Government's role in these matters is limited to discussing with the States the desirability or otherwise of outpatient charges and if appropriate, to concurring under the cost-sharing agreements with decision reached by the States. 
The only area in which the Commonwealth Government could act unilaterally on this matter would be in respect of recognised hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. I believe it would be undesirable to introduce new charges in territorial hospitals without first fully exploring with the State governments the desirability or likelihood of similar charges being introduced on a more general basis. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to question No. 1 157, page 1354,  Hansard,  20 September 1977. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
) The situation in respect of hostel accommodation for aged persons is currently under review at both State and Federal levels. The review is being undertaken through Working Parties which I have asked my department to convene in co-operation with the Australian Affiliation of Voluntary Care Associations, which represents the organisations conducting non-profit hostels for aged persons throughout Australia. 
The first meeting of the Federal Working Party was held recently in Canberra and meetings at State level are now being arranged. I will be carefully considering the reports and recommendations arising from the Working Party investigations. 
The Government has specifically established various forms of assistance to cater for a variety of needs among aged and disabled persons. There is no question of one type of accommodation being more 'deserving' of Government support than another. Rather, the issue is one of the priority of need within various areas and for particular categories of people and the Government therefore considers it very important that the greatest possible flexibility of provision be retained. 
Social Security: Expenditures in Werriwa Division (Question No. 346) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following table in answer to the honourable member's question: 
These allegations have been brought to my attention only in the last day or two. I will ask my Department to undertake an investigation to ascertain whether the allegations made by  Mr Cade  are in fact correct. 
-by leave- For the information of honourable members I present a discussion paper on paying for health care prepared by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. This paper does not necessarily represent the Government's views. The preparation of the paper was the last major task performed by the Commission under the chairmanship of  Dr Sidney  Sax. As I announced on 2 March, the Commission is to be wound up and  Dr Sax  is to head the new Social Welfare Policy Secretariat which will have responsibilities ranging over the wide field of health and welfare. 
I take this opportunity to congratulate and thank  Dr Sax  and the Commission for their work over the last few years. Under his guidance there has been a wide-ranging scrutiny of the health care delivery system, including the pathology and high cost diagnostic technology inquiries, and a number of innovative programs have been introduced which will be of lasting benefit to Australians. 
As honourable members are aware, the Government, when it was in Opposition and more particularly from the time it came to office in 1975, has been concerned at the rapidly escalating cost of health care in Australia. In the last five years national expenditure on health care has increased from $2.2 billion in 1971-72 to $6.3 billion in 1976-77, a staggering rise of 1 80 per cent. This means that an ever-increasing percentage of the nation's resources is being devoted to health services. This discussion paper demonstrates that the causes are varied and interrelated. The trend towards more and more of the nation's resources being devoted to health care is consistent with the trend in almost all developed countries of the world. However, there is no reason for complacency in Australia. 
The Government moved in 1976 to restrain health care costs, with the introduction of modifications to the health insurance system. The figures for the financial year 1976-77 indicate that there has been a significant fall in the rate of increase since 1 October 1976, the date on which the modified health insurance arrangements became effective. This slowing down in the rate of acceleration of health costs gives some justification for cautious optimism. This has been achieved whilst retaining those desirable principles of universal coverage, protection of pensioners and low income earners, and restoring freedom of choice. The modifications were also designed to encourage a sense of personal responsibility, which is so essential to a freeenterprise society. 
In any government-sponsored health scheme there is the inherent danger of developing a psychology of dependence and a lack of personal and community responsibility. It is essential that in any universal health insurance system there are incentives which encourage self-reliance and a sense of personal responsibility. Although there has been a slowing down in the rate of increase in costs, the Government is not complacent and acknowledges that more needs to be done to restrain the mounting costs of health insurance and health care. One of the most important advantages of the changes that were introduced on 1 October 1976 is that the changes have identified to the people the costs of health care. While ever they were buried in Consolidated Revenue both the providers of health care and the community at large tended to ignore the problem. Health costs are paid for either by taxes, levies, health insurance premiums, direct patient contribution or by a combination of these means. However, the community at large will not escape the bill. Health care costs have to be paid for by one means or another. There is therefore a great responsibility on the health providers and the community to ensure that we obtain the best value for the dollar spent. 
Since the debate in the House on 23 February there has been much said and written on health care costs, and the media has covered the subject at great length. However, to some extent the issues may have become clouded and much of the argument has been subjective. I believe that the discussion paper has objectively set about the task of identifying the factors underlying the problem, examining the reasons for them and reaching conclusions. Those conclusions will be the subject of debate and discussion and, albeit modified, could lead to solutions to the problems. In reviewing the financing of health services in this country and in discussing possible alternatives to the present arrangements, the discussion paper is provocative in many respects. I can predict with absolute certainty that all of the statements made or conclusions reached will not be universally accepted, but this is not its purpose. It will stimulate discussion among all those directly involved in the health care industry and among the community as a whole. In this way I believe a better system will be developed which will not only provide the high level of health care for which this country is renowned but also do so at a cost which the community can afford. 
In order to achieve our goal it will be necessary for all to co-operate with good will- not only the providers of health care, particularly the medical profession, but also health administrators, health care financers, governments, both State and Commonwealth, and, indeed, the people of Australia as a whole. 
In conclusion I can do no more than quote from the introduction to the discussion paper, which highlights the crux of the matter. It reads: 
Medical care is of such vital importance to so many in the community that it must be financed on a basis which removes financial barriers that could impede access to essential care. The central problem is that if increases in expenditure continue unchecked, a critical situation could develop and result in arbitrary curtailments of both supply and access. 
Whilst this paper canvasses many of the major problems affecting the costs of health care delivery, and sets out some options available to the Government, the paper does not necessarily represent the views of the Government. I commend the paper to honourable members. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Females aged 60 years to under 65 years, if qualified by residence, are eligible for an income tested age pension. The estimated annual cost of this pension, based on current rates of benefit ($49.30 a week single and $41.10 a week married) is some $3 50m. If the income test on age pensions for females for this age group were abolished, the estimated additional annual cost on the basis of current pension rates would be some $370m. This cost estimate is a gross cost, i.e. it does not make any allowance for the additional revenue that may result from the taxation of the payments concerned. 
The estimated additional annual cost of providing an income test free age pension for males aged 60 to 65 years based on current pension rates, is some $445m. It is not possible to estimate with accuracy the cost of paying an income tested age pension to males in this age group because of the lack of data on their income distribution. In addition, it is not possible to forecast what effect the introduction of an age pension at age 60 years for males would have on workforce participation rates. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The members of the National Committee on Health and Vital Statistics are as follows: 

 Dr J. Donovan  (Chairman) representing the Commonwealth Department of Health 

 Dr M. Lugg  (Deputy Chairman) representing the WA Department of Public Health 

 Dr A. Adams representing the Health Commission of NSW 

 Dr D. Race representing the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission 

 Dr O. Powell representing the Queensland Department of Health 

 Dr Z. Seglenieks representing the SA Department of Public Health 

 Dr J. Curran representing the Tasmanian Department of Health Services 

 Dr A. Cumming Thom representing the Capital Territory Health Commission 

 Dr P. Gross representing the Hospital and Health Services Commission 

 Mr M. Giles representing the Australian Bureau of Statistics 
Professor M. Hobbs,  Mr R.  Glenn, Miss J. Young nominated by the Hospital and Allied Services Advisory Council. 
The terms of reference of the committee are: 
report and recommend to the Australian Health Ministers' Conference measures for the development, coordination and rationalisation of health statistics; and 
inform the Australian Statistics Advisory Council on priorities in health statistics. 
The committee was set up by the Australian Health Ministers ' Conference following a recommendation by the Conference on the Rationalisation of Health Data Collection Activities held in February 1 976 attended by representatives of Commonwealth and State Government Departments and non-government organisations. 
The first meeting of the National Committee on Health and Vital Statistics which was held in Canberra on 22 July 1977 established six working parties to examine various aspects of health statistics. The terms of reference of these working parties are concerned with identifying deficiencies in national health statistical collections and suggesting ways and means of rectifying these deficiencies. Preliminary reports were presented to the second meeting of the Committee held in November 1977 and it is expected that final reports from all working parties will be available by the time of the third meeting in June 1978. Action will continue progressively. 
Cargo Carried by Australian Flag Vessels (Question No. 337) 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'Families and Social Services in Australia', together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to the report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)to (4)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
and (3) See (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The conditions under which West German pensions are made available to former residents of West Germany who are now living in Australia are primarily a matter for the West German Government to decide. In the absence of a unilateral decision on the part of that Government to make its pensions available to Australian residents who are not German nationals, the pensions could be paid in Australia if an appropriate reciprocal arrangement on social security were concluded between the two 
Governments. The general question of Australian participation in reciprocal arrangements on social security agreements with other countries, including West Germany, is one to which the Australian Government is presently giving very serious and urgent consideration. Whilst the Government is not in a position to make any firm decision, we are pressing on with an examination of the case for agreements and related issues and the terms on which an agreement might be negotiated. As the honourable member for Henty would recognise, the issues are very complex indeed. They go beyond the question of paying pensions to people from other countries who are now resident in Australia. The matter is receiving very serious and urgent consideration. I am sure that the honourable member will make that known to the people who are concerned about the problem. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Eligible Aboriginal children together with other school children are currently receiving free dental care including dental health education under the Australian School Dental Scheme. This coverage is progressively expanding with the continued development of the Scheme. 
The Commonwealth has allocated $24.5m in 1977-78 for the School Dental Scheme on the basis of meeting 75 per cent of capital costs, 75 per cent of the operating costs of the dental therapy schools and 50 per cent of the operating costs of the clinics. The balance of these funds is provided by the States. I feel that this is very generous in the light of the current economic climate. 
In the Northern Territory, the Commonwealth meets all of the costs of providing dental care for Aboriginals through the dental services provided by the Commonwealth Department of Health. 
Aboriginal Affairs in Northern Territory  (Question No. 199) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Exchanges of staff both professional and clerical have been under consideration by my Department on various occasions over recent years. However, due in part to difficulties associated with aspects such as staff ceilings and release and replacement of staff no proposal has yet proceeded to finality. New arrangements for staff ceilings for officers on exchange have now been instituted and I am hopeful that appropriate exchanges can now be made, in the interests of officers of my Department and the public and private sectors generally. Negotiations are currently being conducted with the Public Service Board for this purpose. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) To date, a total of 59 women's refuges have been approved for funding under the Community Health Program in 1977-78. These are located as follows: 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Act 1973, 1 present the annual report of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission for 1976-77. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
1 ) A meeting is to take place on 1 7 March 1 978. 
Yes. 
The Departments of Foreign Affairs, Health, Education, Aboriginal Affairs, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Home Affairs and Finance are currently represented on the interdepartmental committee. 
The interdepartmental committee will enable coordination of planning across relevant Commonwealth Departments in respect to the International Year of the Child and support the committee of Commonwealth Ministers. 
It is not expected nor required to make one formal report. It will, however, report as required to the Committee of Commonwealth Ministers. 
Firstly, I would like to thank all those who have participated in the debate this afternoon and this evening on the Discussion Paper on Paying for Health Care. I join with other speakers, excluding the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  in complimenting the Hospitals and Health Services Commission for the production of this discussion paper. It has been a provocative paper but it has been a stimulating document. It has evoked discussion both in this Parliament and outside it. It has provoked discussion in the community generally. There have been many newspaper editorials on it, medical writers have written about it and my office has received hundreds of letters from people outside this place expressing a view upon the paper. This is the sort of stimulating discussion that I want to see generated. 
I do not want to hear just from the medical profession, the hospitals associations and respective party groups. I want to hear from the individuals in the community and a great number of people have taken the opportunity to discuss the issue with me personally and to write to me. I thank them very much for the interest that they have taken. After all, health costs affect everyone in the community. There is no way that we will escape health costs. It does not matter what modifications we make to the health insurance system. People will make their own contribution by one means or another- either by means of paying levies, paying income tax, paying health insurance contributions, paying directly out of their pockets or by a combination of these methods. The fact of life is that health costs in this country have escalated to alarming levels. The people have become aware of that. I think that in itself will have an effect upon the providers of health care who, after all, are members of the community, as indeed are the consumers. We all live within the community and we all ultimately accept a responsibility for trends that occur once we realise there is a problem. 
Many constructive suggestions have been made tonight. Some of the contributions have been based more on ideological concepts rather than on facts. However, the debate has been a reflection of public concern about health costs. The paper that we have been debating places into a historical context and perspective the trends in the consumption of health services and the expenditures on them. It directs attention to the factors influencing usage and expenditures. It undertakes some discussion about the reasons for the cost explosions in the hospitals and throughout the system itself. It is a most useful study and will be quoted for some time to come. We have all identified the problem, and to some extent the reasons for that were the changes that we made to health insurance on 1 October 1976. In the six years to 1976-77 we have seen health costs explode from $2,232m to $6,254m. That is big money when one considers that the value of our iron ore, wool, wheat, meat and coal exports for the last financial year was $4,500m. So health costs in this country have been about one and a half times as great. 
The changes that we made to health insurance on 1 October 1 976 quite deliberately transferred a considerable portion of health costs from the taxation pool- the pool to which taxpayers contributeto individuals, to the community. People pay according to their means through the taxation system- through the levy- or by way of premium if they choose to insure privately. The changes on 1 October removed from Consolidated Revenue much of the cost and exposed to the people the costs so that they could see them and so that they could feel them. Thus public awareness has been created, which I think is extremely important to enable us to come to grips with the problem. The problem has been identified in this country and overseas in most Western countries by economists and well informed people for many, many years but it has been only in more recent times that the man in the street and the doctor, the provider of health care, have become concerned about the issue. 
I suppose that in considering the problem of health costs in a country like Australia where we have a high standard of living we must take into account the fact that most people place great value on life and comfort. Therefore I do not suppose that it is unreal to expect that a community such as ours would have a growing amount of its gross domestic product spent on health care. Without naming them, in some of the underdeveloped countries where life itself does not assume the value to individuals that it does in our country their order of priority would not be as high as ours, so far as health care is concerned. To some extent perhaps that is why in Western countries where there is a relatively higher standard of living we have seen this escalation of the gross domestic product expenditure on health care increasing year by year. What are the reasons for the great explosion in health care costs in the last six years? Basically, the universal health insurance system I think has made people, certainly the providers of health care, less cost conscious. Secondly, there is the great explosion in wages and salaries in the health care cost area. More than 75 per cent of those people who are employed are females and with the equalisation of pay conditions naturally there was a large explosion in health care costs in the wages area in 1 973-74. That is why there was a great explosion in health costs the year before Medibank became operative. Enormous wage and salary adjustments were made in the hospitals sector. I am not arguing that it was right or wrong. The fact of the matter was that so many of the women who were employed in these areas were underpaid compared with other people in the community and adjustments had to be made. 
I am not arguing. I said that I am not saying that it was right or wrong. But if you wish me to commit myself I think the nurses of this country deserved to be paid far better than they were in days gone by. The introduction of Medibank itself did not impose any discipline upon the system. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  talked about the inefficiency of Medibank Mark II but I do not suppose there was ever a system introduced into any country that was less cost efficient than the Medibank operation itself. The Medibank hospitals agreements were open ended so far as the States were concerned; the whole system was so open ended that it led to all sons of abuses. No attempt was made before we came into office to set up medical services committees of inquiry. These have since been set up in each State. We have introduced the concept of peer review to the medical profession and the Australian Medical Association has indicated its willingness to go ahead with it. We have taken measures to overcome the very heavy costs of the diagnostic services to the community in the areas of pathology and CAT scanning and in the other high technology diagnostic areas of medicine. We have gone to tremendous lengths to try to obtain the co-operation of the providers of health care in rationalising resources and the system generally. 
I am pleased to say that we have had tremendous co-operation from the AMA and responsible members of the medical profession. We have tackled the problem of fraud and abuse and certainly the overuse of services where we have been able to catch the culprits. So I think tremendous progress is being made and it is being reflected in a slowing down in the rate of acceleration of the increase in health costs in this country. I demonstrate that by saying that in 1973-74 5.92 per cent of gross domestic product was spent on health; in 1 974-75 the percentage was 6.83 per cent; in 1975-76 it had risen to 7.38 per cent; and in 1976-77 it had risen to 7.67 per cent. The percentage increases in DGP were: Between 1973-74 and 1974-75 there was a great leap of 15.4 per cent; between 1974-75 and 1975-76 it increased by 8.1 per cent; and between 1975-76 and 1976-77 the increase was 3.9 per cent. But what is more interesting is the services per head of population on the medical side. In 1974-75 there were 5.3 services per head of population, rising to 5.94 services in 1 975-76, an increase of 1 1 per cent. The figure fell to 5.82 services per head in 1976-77 which was a net reduction of 2 per cent. Those figures give firm indications that the measures that we took in October 1 976 are in fact working. 
But we are not complacent about the situation. We are currently reviewing the whole health insurance system to see whether there are other ways to ensure that the rate of acceleration of health cost in this country does not crowd out our capacity to spend essential resources on other important areas in the economy such as social welfare, the need for job creation, the need to assist industry to employ people and so on. If we allowed health costs to grow uncontrollably we would deny a capacity to help people in other ways. So for that reason alone it is essential that we adopt a responsible position as a government and it is essential that we try to give some leadership to the community, to the doctors, to the hospital administrators and to all those people who are associated with health care delivery in this country. 
Judging from the submissions that have come to hand and the attitudes that are being expressed to me and to the Government, I am quite satisfied that there is a willingness on the part of most of the medical profession, the hospitals themselves and the State governments, regardless of their political persuasions, to come to grips with this problem. I am quite confident that if we give ourselves adequate time to deal with this problem we will be able to shape the health insurance system in Australia so that it will be second to none in the world. I believe that we have a health system that is probably second to none. We have very good basic resources in this country. I do not think I have ever heard anybody really seriously criticise the quality of the resources and the services that are available to the Australian people. Our real concern is to ensure that the dollars that are being spent on health care in this country are being spent wisely and prudently 
I assure honourable members that the Government will continue to review the situation. It will continue to take whatever measures it thinks are necessary to ensure that the dollars are being wisely spent in the best interests of people and at the same time will ensure that nobody is denied easy access to high quality care in this country regardless of their income level or geographic situation. We have even moved to try to make it easier for people living in remote areas to get specialised attention within the universal health insurance system in this country. We will not allow a situation to develop where people will be denied access to proper health care. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The Minister's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Investigations in the United States suggested that chloroform fed in very high doses to rodents produced increased kidney and liver tumors. As a result, from 29 July 1976, chloroform was banned in cosmetics, including toothpaste. I would point out that while obliged by law to take this action, the Food and Drug Administration noted that there was no evidence to suggest that chloroform caused cancer in humans. Accordingly no order was made to ban existing stocks containing chloroform. 
A survey carried out for my Department by the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories, and reported in the Melbourne Herald of 29 September 1977, showed that 10 out of 4 1 brands tested and on sale in Australia contained chloroform. Percentages given were as follows: Ipana White (Bristol Myers) 0.2; Appeal Green (Colgate Palmolive) 0.7; Appeal Red (Colgate Palmolive) 0.7; Macleans Fluoride Mildmint (Beechams) 0.8; Macleans Fluoride Freshmint (Beechams) 0.9; Ultra Brim (Colgate Palmolive) 0.6; Fluoride Aquafresh (Beechams) 0.7; Macleans Spearmint (Beechams) 0.9; Macleans Fluoride Spearmint (Beechams) 0.9; Smokers Toothpaste (Scott and Browne) 0.5. 
I released a Press statement on 27 October 1977 which drew attention to the action taken in the United States. I also pointed out that the Poisons Schedule Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council, and the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee had reviewed all the available information at that time and had considered that action similar to that taken in the United States was unnecessary. Since then, both Committees have kept this subject continually under review and have indicated no change of opinion. Indeed, recent evidence gathered from tests carried out in Britain over seven years on beagle dogs, which have a metabolism closely related to humans (rather than rodents which operate by a different pathway), showed no adverse effect on survival, no major toxicological effects and no evidence of cancer formation. 
The beagle dog study was conducted by a team at the Huntingdon Research Centre in the United Kingdom and was reported to the 1st International Congress on Toxicology, Toronto, in March 1977. 
My Department has a copy of the report and I would be happy to make it available to the honourable member if he so desires. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Vaccine virus seeds which could be used for the development of vaccines against bluetongue strains 1 to 14 have been imported from South Africa and are currently held in the repository at the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, Melbourne. These vaccine strains have been imported in case vaccines need to be prepared at some time in the future to control an outbreak of exotic bluetongue disease. 
Two Australian scientists went to Onderstepoort to supervise the preparation and purification of these seeds to ensure that no contaminant viruses were introduced into Australia with them. Draft protocols for further testing of the seeds under secure conditions at the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories have been completed and will shortly be considered by a committee of experts from relevant Commonwealth and State organisations convened by my Department for the purpose. 
Arrangements are in hand to import vaccine seeds of Strain 16 from the Kimron Institute, Israel, as the virus isolate held by that Institute is the most suitable one available. 
A draft protocol for the attenuation of the virus known as CSIRO 1 9, which was isolated from a collection of culicoides in the Northern Territory, has also been completed and will shortly be considered by the above committee. 
There are some 20 known strains of bluetongue disease, each of which requires the development of a separate vaccine seed. Sources of appropriately purified and tested virus seeds of the remaining four strains have not yet been found. 
Any bluetongue vaccine developed in Australia would be tested initially in Australian animals under secure laboratory conditions in Australia and also overseas before it is released for use in Australian flocks. 
Any strains of virus imported into Australia will undergo additional testing for purification at the Animal Virus Research Institute at Pirbright, England, or the Plum Island Animal Disease Center in the United States of America. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Department's submission stated that the offshore station 'should be sited at least 100 miles from Australia '. 
I am informed that the answer is No. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 I present the annual report of the Commissioner for Employees Compensation for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because of the necessity to consider subsequent recommendations by other bodies such as the National Energy Advisory Committee, the National Health and Medical Research Council has not yet finalised its own recommendations. 
The matter will be further discussed by Council in May and June of this year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The report on Rural Health in Australia does not contain a series of formal recommendations as such. Rather it identifies and comments on particular issues associated with the provision of health services to the rural community. Nevertheless the report contains a number of proposals or observations on each of the major aspects of rural health which it examines. 
The Government has initiated action on several of these including: 
A proposed scheme to assist patients in remote areas without specialist medical facilities who are faced with the high costs of travel and accommodation when referred by general practitioners to specialists in the treatment of illness. 
A Health Program Grant to the St John Ambulance Association to develop course material for use in a pilot program, in co-operation with the New South Wales Health Commission and my Department, designed to increase the self reliance of communities which do not have ready access to health services. 
Under the Community Health Program, financial assistance has been made available to Western Australia, South Australia and Queensland for travel and accommodation of medical students who undertake part of their training in rural areas. In addition, I announced, in August 1 977, the introduction of an incentive allowance of $70 per week to be paid under the Family Medicine Program to medical graduates who choose to train as general practitioners in rural areas. Funds have also been made available under the Community Health Program to employ other health students during vacation periods. Some of these students were employed in country areas. 
The integration of community health services with those of institutional services in rural areas is being encouraged through the Community Health Program, as are a number of other projects aimed at improving rural community health services within the limits of available funds. These projects include nursing posts and mobile staff to establish basic community health services in very remote areas and to serve small centres and outlying settlements and properties. 
Funds have also been made available through the Hospitals Development Program to assist States in the upgrading of rural hospitals. 
and (3) The Government has not rejected any of the ideas or proposals expressed in the report which continues to receive consideration in the context of developments within existing programs. 
The Government has invited the States to comment on the report in its entirety. Issues arising therefrom have been discussed in various forums such as the Health Ministers' Conference and the bi-annual Commonwealth/State Standing Committees on Health Expenditure. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
South Australia-2-3 November 1977; New South Wales-10-11 November 1977; Victoria- 15- 16 November 1977; Western Australia-21-22 November 1977; Tas- mania-23-24 November 1977; Queensland-30 November- 1 December 1977. 

-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Bureau of Statistics has advised: 
Interviewing for the Health Interview Survey, will continue until June 1978 
Preliminary estimates based on interviews conducted during July-September 1977 are expected to be published during April 1978 
Final estimates from the full Survey will be published as soon as possible after the completion of interviewing. 
The Health Interview Survey will allow the health of the nation to be assessed in relation to social and economic factors: e.g. 
the health problems and needs of specific sub populations such as the aged, migrants and low income people, etc. 
identification of high risk areas for more detailed studies 
assistance to Federal, State and other Health authorities and organisations in planning the provision of new facilities and services and measuring utilisation of existing facilities 
) assistance in the allocation of resources for the establishment of services for specific populations in specific locations 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The self-regulatory code is in operation. Although each section of the liquor industry has its own code progress towards uniformity is being made. Each industry group will be autonomous and will be responsible for compliance with the code as it applies to that group. Discussions are continuing between health authorities and the liquor industry. 
No major problems now remain to be overcome as regards the introduction of the voluntary code. The task of assessing its efficacy will be one for the future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
See(l). 
Commonwealth funds for hospitals construction are made available to the States through the Hospitals Development Program. Financial assistance under this program isin the form of a block grant to each State to supplement the State's total program of hospital capital works. State Governments determine which projects are to be proposed for inclusion in their programs, and the program for each State is then agreed by the relevant Commonwealth/State Standing Committee (Health Expenditures). Within the agreed programs, States may alter funding priorities by bringing forward or deferring projects. 
The construction of a new hospital at Fairfield is not included in the N.S.W. Hospital Works Program for 1977-78. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As conveyed in my answer to question No. 1 109 the estimate of $25m was based on the very limited information available on estimated gross operating costs of acute psychiatric hospitals or acute parts of psychiatric hospitals. The tenor of that reply was based on the fact that my Department does not have full information on the number of acute beds or bed days in psychiatric hospitals in each State, because the Commonwealth is not involved in the financing of these hospitals. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The National Health Services Advisory Committee is chaired by  Dr Sidney  Sax who heads the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat. The members of the Committee are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In May 1976, the Commonwealth Government asked the Australian Medical Association to institute a system of peer review of professional standards. A Commonwealth grant has assisted the A.M.A. to examine the feasibility of various approaches to peer review of professional standards by initiating a study tour and sponsoring a general seminar. Recently I approved a further grant to support the publication of an information brochure for distribution to all medical practitioners. 
A system of professional standards review is an essential feature of any attempt to contain the cost of health care services and improve their quality. The establishment of an effective system is an important objective of the Government's health policy. 
I have asked that the A.M.A. provide a report on progress to date by 30 June 1978. Discussions on proposals for work during the time left to the A.M.A. will also be held with its representatives. Until the report and the results of discussions are available a firm timetable, for the establishment of a system of peer review of professional standards by the A.M.A., will not be available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. I refer the honourable member to my answer to question No. 143  (Hansard,  p.498, 7 March 1978) for the current position. 
Primary responsibility for the provision of health services in Queensland rests with the Sate authorities. However, the Commonwealth provides financial assistance to the States and other organisations for special health services for Aboriginals. The National Trachoma and Eye Health Program is conducted by the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists and is funded by the Commonwealth Government. For a nationwide program such as this to be fully effctive it is essential that the co-operation of the relevant State Authorities be obtained. My Department provides assistance in this regard. 
Loan to SPC Limited  (Question No. 648) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes- all contributors are eligible to be directors and to attend and vote in the election of directors at the annual general meeting. 
It is not known how many, if any, members of the Council of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited are members of the AMA. It is not a requirement of the Articles of Association that medical members of the Council be members of the AMA also. 
No. However the Articles of Association of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited provide for the appointment of contributors' representatives to its governing body (the Council). The Council comprises 24 persons, 1 2 of whom are contributors ' representatives. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I assume the honourable member is referring to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission's Report 'Review of the Community Health Program' which was tabled in Parliament on 2 June 1976. Since then the Government has implemented two major policy decisions that have a major effect on the Government's ability to action many of the report's recommendations. These policy initiatives relate to the Government's need to effect restraint in Commonwealth Government expenditure and to the major devolution of responsibilities for the provision and supervision of health services to the States, within the framework of the federal system. 
The Commission's report contained a number of wideranging recommendations and proposals, not specifically directed to the Commonwealth Government, but involving also State governments and the professional associations. Within the federal framework initiatives for implementation of the majority of the recommendations rest primarily with the State governments, having regard to their particular priorities and within the limits of available funds. The Commonwealth government is continuing to work towards improving communication and co-operation between all those involved in health care and in this regard has on-going consultations with State governments and professional associations. 
It is in the above context, that I provide the following answers to the specific points raised by the honourable member 
This recommendation is concerned with ensuring that health care is provided on an integrated multidisciplinary basis, which is best demonstrated by current developments towards health care teams. The complexities involved, however, would appear to first require the development of informal practices and role definitions which, when successfully demonstrated, could then be recognised on a formal basis in the context of professional organisations and accreditation procedures. This concept must therefore be developed gradually and is best facilitated by encouragement by health authorities at the workforce. 
The Community Health Program already makes significant provision for in-service training courses, seminars and workshops in all States to better equip community health workers to adapt to the demands of community-based health service delivery. At the State level these activities are continuing within the priorities and availability of funds as determined by the respective States. Vocational training for general medical practice, the cornerstone of personalised health care delivery in the community, is provided throughout Australia by the Family Medicine Program which operates and is funded as a national project. 
Much is already being done under the Community Health Program to foster inter-disciplinary training. Students in various health disciplines throughout Australia actively participate in multi-disciplinary community health projects co-ordinated by 'Students Initiatives m Community Health' a project sponsored by the Australian Medical Students' Association and funded by the Commonwealth. At the University of Adelaide, the development of inter-disciplinary training for medicine, social work, nursing, physiotherapy and occupational therapy, with a view to providing multi-disciplinary basic training in community health practice, has been funded under the Program. 
Exploration and implementation of the concept of multi-purpose' health aides is primarily a matter for the 
State governments. To relieve demand for services of professional staff, South Australia has initiated training programs for paramedical aides and Western Australia nas introduced social trainers to assist parents of retarded children to cope with and to train children in elementary social activities. 
This recommendation required no special Commonwealth assistance but requires inter-professional consultation and greater multi-disciplinary practice. The main thrust for initiatives in these matters must rest with the States because of their particular responsibilities for the actual organisation and provision of health services. 
This recommendation is being implemented with varying emphases in the States. Much has been achieved already under the Community Health Program with many community health projects, particularly in Victoria, involving community groups in the form of management or advisory committees. Many community health projects have developed into community activity focal points extending beyond the primary function of providing health services. The Commonwealth has encouraged the States to submit proposals from voluntary/community groups for funding under the Community Health Program and is continuing to fund a number of voluntary agencies on a national basis. With the joint support of both employers and unions at the top policy level, an Alcoholism in Industry Program, co-ordinated by the Australian Foundation on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence has been funded under the Program and is an excellent example of the Government s response to community group initiatives in identifying and meeting a particular need. 
This is primarily a matter for State governments within the limits of State priorities and availability of funds. The Commonwealth, during its bi-annual discussions with the States in the Standing Committee Meetings on Health Expenditures, at which State Community Health Programs are endorsed, encourages the States to be responsive to initiatives of non-government agencies in sponsoring community health projects. 
The Government's federalism policies put the States in a better financial position to accept a greater share of the costs of providing community health services than was the case formerly. Thus, with the major devolution of administrative and financial responsibilities to the States, the Commonwealth, in 1977-78, reduced its proportional share of community health service costs from 75 per cent of capital and 90 per cent of operating costs to 50 per cent and 75 per cent respectively. Notwithstanding these reductions in the Commonwealth's proportion of costs, the Commonwealth in 1977-78 has provided $79.05m for the Community Health Program, an increase of $ 10.2m or 14.8 per cent over the Commonwealth expenditure in the previous financial year. With the additional State contributions the increased level of expenditure on community health services is considerable. The Commonwealth continues to fund national projects at 100 per cent, the amount allocated for that purpose in 1977-78 being $5. 75m. Concerning the provision of legislation as a formal basis for the Community Health Program, I assured State Health Ministers at a special meeting in September 1977, that the Government would give serious consideration to the provision of appropriate legislation. I am hopeful that a decision on this matter will be announced shortly. 
and (j) All Community Health Program projects are expected to have some form of in-built evaluation mechanism. In fact, one of the conditions of grants is that the management of Commonwealth funded projects be prepared to co-operate with the Commonwealth in evaluating projects when so requested and to keep such statistical records as may be necessary for that purpose. Some evaluation and cost benefit studies have been carried out and others are continuing as a joint Commonwealth-State exercise. In addition, the Government has provided $500,000- as Health Program Grants for health service development projects-to: encourage the development and testing of new cost-effective forms of health care delivery; foster the monitoring mechanisms concerned with ensuring the best value for expenditure on health; or introduce new methods of meeting health costs with incentives towards efficiency. 
The funding of paramedical and home nursing services has been accommodated within the Community Health Program wherever it has been possible to incorporate these services within an integrated and comprehensive service. A review of the present Home Nursing Subsidy Scheme is proceeding. The question of funding services operating before 1 July 1973 has been deferred because of the need to exercise economic restraint. 
1 ) Family planning services in one form or another are already being provided from most general community health centres, and family planning training for community health workers is an integral part of in-service training in such cases. Apart from the Commonwealth's contribution under the Community Health Program a substantial contribution is also made by the Commonwealth and States to voluntary organisations operating in this field. 
The concept expressed in this recommendation is well recognised by both Commonwealth and State health authorities. A substantial number of projects funded under the Community Health Program are, in fact, closely associated with or based at hospitals, particularly in rural areas, and are providing balanced links between hospitals and community health services. This trend is being encouraged at joint Commonwealth- State consultations on policy matters and annual program formulation. 
Increasing support has been given in recent times under the Community Health Program for women's refuges (59 funded in 1977-7S), detoxification units and other health hostel/halfway house projects offering shortterm rehabilitative and /or support services. The Commonwealth is prepared to consider applications from the States for inclusion of projects under the Community Health Program aimed at providing assistance towards the cost of health related services of such hostels. Greater emphasis has been placed on developments in health education and promotion in recent times. In conjunction with St John Ambulance Association and the Health Commission of New South Wales, the Commonwealth is currently funding a pilot project designed to provide health education and first-aid knowledge for persons living in isolated communities with a view to increasing their selfreliance and generally promoting better health. The Commonwealth is also currently sponsoring a series of small search seminars on preventive health and health promotion in each State. A Study Group in Health Education, to identify health educations needs in Australia, with particular emphasis on school health education, is one of a number of groups established by the Curriculum Development Centre. The National Health and Medical Research Council has also established a Standing Sub-Committee on Health Education. 
The current eligibility criteria of the Community Health Program are sufficiently wide to encompass many of the proposals contained in the Hospitals and Health Services Commission's Report 'Health Transport Policies for Australia' (tabled on 19 October 1976), but implementation depends on State priorities and available funds. Under the Community Health Program, the Commonwealth is providing financial support for a number of community-based health facilities which, as an integral part of their services, provide some transport for patients. The Government is not prepared at this stage to provide direct support for ambulance services. 
One of the basic objectives of the Family Medicine Program, a major national project funded under the Community Health Program, is the encouragement of improved general practitioner services in rural areas. On 1 8 August 19771 announced the introduction of incentive allowances for medical graduates who choose to train as general practitioners in areas of Australia where doctors are scarce. The Family Medicine Program also invites general practitioners to attend training sessions for its trainees, often in country areas, as a means of providing general practitioners with opportunities to obtain refresher knowledge. In Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia, Commonwealth financial support is given to projects enabling medical students to gain experience by attachment to rural general practices. 
Other Commonwealth-funded initiatives aimed at alleviating health problems of isolated communities included the provision of a network of community nursing posts covering many isolated low-population communities, the establishment of small community health centres in country towns, and the provision of mobile community health and specialist services visiting isolated areas. On 5 December 1977, 1 announced the Government's intention to assist people living in isolated areas and who have to travel considerable distances for specialist health care. I am hopeful that legislation to authorise this assistance will be presented to Parliament shortly. 
Commonwealth Public Works in Werriwa Electoral Division  (Question No. 347) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Age, invalid or widow pensions or supporting parent's benifit under the Social Services Act; 
A service pension under the Repatriation Act; 
An allowance under the Tuberculosis Act. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The activities of my Department do not include the collation of the information sought by the honourable member and, as far as I am aware, it is not readily available in Australia. However, in the course of its recent inquiry into drug problems in Australia, the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare did cover the use of analgesics. Its report Drug problems in Australia- an intoxicated society?', tabled in the Senate on 25 October 1977, contains some data that the honourable member may find useful. I refer particularly to Appendix 5 of that report which contains tables on consumption of proprietary oral analgesics by State and per person. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of the situation but I understand that the level of radioactivity is not high. 
Yes, as a consequence of which the Commonwealth is represented on a Working Party that has been established by the Health Commission of New South Wales and, through the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, is providing technical advice to the Commission. 
The Commonwealth 's role has not been decided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records of my Department were: 
I noticed the comment by  Mr Cade  of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd. I have not yet studied his reasons for claiming that his fund will not be obliged to pay benefits for patients treated by  Mr Brych  on the Cook Islands. As soon as an inquiry into the reasons for his making the statement is concluded, I will furnish the honourable member with an answer. 
Whilst I am on the subject of  Mr Brych  and the payment of benefits to patients who have been treated by him, I inform the House that I have had delivered to him by hand a letter informing him officially that we are prepared to send a team of medical experts, cancer specialists and oncologists, and a prominent layman if necessary, to undertake a clinical evaluation of his treatment and also to examine the clinical records of patients who have been treated by him. I am still awaiting his reply. I expect him to formally reply to the Commonwealth Government's offer. Therefore the continuation of the payment of benefits to patients who are being treated by  Mr Brych  will depend largely on the response that I receive from him to that letter and also on the outcome of the proposed inquiry. 
In the longer term I think that patients generally should not take it for granted that the Government will continue to condone a situation whereby  Mr Brych  's patients will receive benefits for treatment that he has rendered. We are not satisfied that he has any medical qualifications whatsoever. In fact all the evidence available to us indicates that he is a fraud. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has provided the following information: 
U.S.A.: Deaths from lung cancer in a group of 3,366 white miners who have worked one or more months in underground uranium mines before January 1964 have been reported. Cumulative Radon-Radon Daughter exposure values measured in 'working level months' were calculated for each miner from his first exposure through September 1959 after which time it was impractical to continue the calculations. Little additional exposure was received by the miners after this date. Radiation levels in the mines dropped sharply by 1967 and few of the study group continued uranium mining after 1 967. In the period July 1950 through September 1974, (the latest date for which data have been published) there were 144 deaths from lung cancer in the group. The expected number in a comparable group from the non-mining public is 30. In a study group of 780 non-white (mostly American Indians) there were 1 1 deaths from lung cancer to be compared with an expected number of 2.6. The data shows clearly that the risk of lung cancer increases with increasing cumulative exposure. 
Canada: There were 15,094 persons who had worked one or more months in uranium mines in Ontario in the period 1955-74 inclusive. There have been 81 deaths from lung cancer in the group to be compared with an expectation of 45. 
South Africa: Over the period 1960 to 1967 inclusive in an underground gold-uranium mining workforce averaging 86,400 men, the lung cancer death rate was less then expected. There were 205 lung cancers compared with an expectation of 254. 
U.S.S.R.: No figures are available. 
Czechoslovakia: There are some published data but these have been presented only as the frequency of lung cancer per 1000 miners for various categories of cumulative exposure in uranium mines, for miners who commenced uranium mining between January 1948 and December 1957. The actual numbers of miners and of cases of lung cancers do not seem to have been reported, but the total number of miners was reported to be 'somewhat larger' than the American study group. The overall incidence of lung cancer to December 1 973 was given as 65.6 per 1000 miners, to be compared with an expectation of 15.1. An excess of lung cancer was not apparent below cumulative exposures of 100 to 150 working level months, as was found also in the American miners, but the absolute risk (frequency of cancer per unit of exposure), inferred from the effects of increasing exposure, appears to be two or three times greater than is indicated by the American figures. 
There are no data available relating specifically to open cut mines. 
This information contains a summary of all available information and is obviously not as extensive as I would desire. I am confident the honourable member who is medically qualified would in interpreting these data be aware of the limitations. 
I would draw the attention of the honourable member also to the publication of my Department entitled the Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores and to the comments on it contained in the editorial of the Medical Journal of Australia, Vol. 2, Issue of October 29, 1977. As the editorial points out, 'This code was regarded by the Ranger Commission as the most comprehensive and restrictive available in any country'. Its application will minimise the risk of lung cancer in the workforce. 
Expenditure on Domestic Air Travel (Question No. 453) 
Last year I established a working party in my Department to advise on a workable scheme for providing assistance towards the cost of orthodontic treatment for cleft lip and palate and related conditions. It has seemed anomalous to me and certainly to a lot of other people that whilst medical benefits have been payable in accordance with the medical benefits schedule for medical services provided or associated with treatment, they have not been available for the orthodontic services that have been also associated with the treatment. The working party feels that the matter can be resoled by an extension of the medical benefits schedule to include items associated with orthodontic treatment for cleft lip and palate conditions. Associated with this measure would be the operation of specialised clinics in some of the State hospitals. In that regard I have written to State Ministers seeking their co-operation in extending those clinics within the ambit of an extended benefits service. I expect to receive some co-operation from State Ministers in this regard. 
Preliminary discussions also have been held with the Australian Dental Association and related societies. The actual implementation of the scheme that we have in mind to overcome this anomaly will, of course, be a matter for decision by the Government at the appropriate time, but I would like to give an assurance to the honourable member and the House, because I have received a tremendous amount of correspondence on the issue, that we have been working very strenuously on what is a very complex problem. There are a wide variety of services associated with the treatment of harelip and cleft palate, but the matter is in hand and I hope it may be resolved before the end of this year. 
My reaction to the statement by the State Minister for Health is one of astonishment because under the arrangement that I had with the former State Minister for Health an amount of $ 10.92m was to be allocated for stage one of the Launceston General Hospital. We appropriated an amount of $5. 46m in this financial year. I now understand that Tasmania will allocate only $3. 75m, which is $1.71m less than it had agreed to allocate. It needs to know that the unexpended portion of the 1977-78 appropriation will not be carried forward into the next financial year. What this has served to do, of course, under the hospitals development program- a program that we have to assist the States with hospital development- is to deny other States $ 1.71m because Tasmania has not lived up to its obligation under an agreement between its Minister for Health and me. I am sending officers to Tasmania next week to have discussions on this matter in order to find out precisely what the Tasmanian Government intends to do next year. If it continues to break understandings like this we may have to review the arrangement. 
For the information of honourable members, I present copies of documents tabled in the Queensland Parliament by the Honourable L. R. Edwards M.L.A. on Tuesday, 4 April 1978. Due to the limited number available at this time, copies have been placed in the Table Office. Additional copies will be made available for circulation to all honourable members towards the end of next week.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to move a motion. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908, authorises the publication of papers relating to  Mr Milan  Brych tabled by the Minister for Health this day. 
in reply- The last comment of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  really highlights the futility and the stupidity of his argument. This is a matter of great public concern and the exposure of the facts should not be dependent on one Minister or one member of this Parliament conferring with a Minister of another Parliament. I respect the views of honourable members and I understand the reasons for their concern, but I and other members on this side of the Parliament have given serious consideration to what is the right and proper course to ensure that the public is not denied essential knowledge and that the members of this Parliament are not denied privilege so that they may act in the public interest. The matter of whether the Queensland Parliament should print a document is its prerogative. However, this Parliament has a real prerogative to make its own decisions in the public interest. Honourable members of this Parliament are involved in this issue in a real public sense. Indeed, the Commonwealth Government is involved because of its responsibilities for immigration and entry laws, for Commonwealth benefits that are paid for medical services and for general public health. 
There is a need for public knowledge on this issue. The public has the right to know the facts and the views that have been put by eminent people. This Brych issue is not a three day wonder; it has been raging as an issue in the minds of many people for many many months and there is much confusion, anguish and concern. It is a very emotional issue; people can fall victim of their concern should any of their loved ones be involved or have cancer. I feel that this Parliament has a responsibility to take whatever measures are necessary to ensure that the  public  is warned, that it has the facts, and that health writers, medical writers, journalists and the media have full and proper uninhibited access to what information is available to me and to what information is available to the Queensland Parliament. I think that to deny proper access to that information through a technical argument which in any event I do not think can be sustained would be inappropriate. I shall quote from  Parliamentary Practice  by Erskine May in respect of the prerogatives of a House of Parliament. Page 173 states: 
The leading principle which appears to  prevade  all the proceedings between the Houses of Parliament is that there shall subsist a perfect equality between them, and that they shall be, in every respect, totally independent one of the other. Hence, it is that neither House can claim, much less exercise, any authority over a member of the other. Neither House of Parliament can take upon itself to punish any breach of privilege or contempt offered to it by any member of the other House. 
I think that quote is extremely relevant. 
-I said 'relevant'. I think it is extremely relevant to the issue and to some of the arguments that have been advanced as to why we should not proceed at this time. I believe that the Parliament has a responsibility to the Australian people because many people are struggling with their decision on this issue as to whether they should either support or attend the clinic that has been set up by this man in the Cook Islands. 

 Mr MORRIS (Shortland)-Mr  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) An estimate of the total number of terminations of unemployment benefits can be obtained by subtracting the number of beneficiaries current at the end of a period from the total number of beneficiaries current at the beginning of a period plus the number of benefits granted during the period. Using this method, there were 811,000 terminations in 1976 and 794,000 in 1977. A breakdown of these estimates by reason for termination is not available. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
and (b) The estimated cost of increasing the free area of income allowed to single social security pensioners by $ 10 a week (i.e. from $20 a week to $30 a week) is of the order of $20m in a full year. In the case of married pensioners the estimated cost of increasing the free area of income by $ 1 0 a week for each partner (i.e. from $17.25 a week to $27.25 a week) is of the order of $30m in a full year. These cost estimates are based on current rates of pension and are gross costs in that they make no allowance for the additional revenue which may result from the taxation of the payments concerned. 
Department of the Treasury: Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence (Question No. 253) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Payments in 1976-77 by the Department of Social Security were: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will recall that in 1972 the then Liberal-Country Party Government introduced legislation to provide a statutory minimum patient contribution which left pensioner patients with $6 a week for their personal spending. This gave them some degree of dignity and independence, particularly in purchasing personal needs. The concept of the patient contribution being a percentage of the pension entitlement was abandoned by the Labor Government when it was in office. In 1 974 the amount retained by pensioner patients was reduced to $4 a week. Since this Government came to office this amount has been progressively increased to the present level of $7, which flowed to pensioner patients in nursing homes in November last year. The Government has decided to revert to the original concept of setting the patient contribution at a percentage of the pension entitlement. The patient contribution is to be set at87? per cent of the pension at the time of future pension increases. This will enable a pensioner to receive an indexed entitlement from his pension when it is increased according to the index formula twice a year. The adoption of this formula will remove a degree of confusion that has existed in the minds of pensioners who, in the last few years, have not known their entitlement whenever there has been a pension increase. In future pensioners in nursing homes will be entitled to retain all but87? per cent of their pensions for their personal spending. 
-They will be able to keep 12? per cent of their pensions. The honourable member for Prospect laughs but he has very little to laugh about because he knows full well that the former Labor Government reduced the personal entitlement from $6 to $4 a week. Members of the Labor Party should be ashamed of themselves. 
The honourable member for Prospect need have no concern whatsoever. Pensioners in nursing homes will not receive less than the $7.20 they are now receiving. As soon as the figure of, I think, $7.20 is reached they will get 87% per cent constantly each time the amount is indexed. 
-I mean  I2¥i  per cent. The honourable member need have no fear about that. We have made provision to ensure that pensioners will not be receiving less than that which they are receiving at present. In fact, the amount will be indexed so that they will receive more as their pensions increase. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Informal inquiries have been made about the provision of facilities in the Guildford area under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act from the following organisations- 
July 1977- The Western Australian State Departments for Community Welfare and Mental Health Services; 
November 1977- Ananda Marga; 
December 1977- Holmesdale Homes. 
No applications for assistance for projects in the Guildford area are before my department for consideration under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. 
The attention of the Department of Social Security was drawn to the findings- 
ofthe 1959 Annual Report of the Western Australian Depanment of Native Welfare, on 20 March 1979, as a result of it being quoted in the report mentioned in (c) below; 
of the 1976 report by the Western Australian Department for Community Welfare, on 18 November 1976. As a result of this report, entitled 'Emergency Accommodation in Perth and its Availability to Aborigines', the Western Australian Advisory Committee on Homeless Persons, which includes two members directly involved with Aboriginal needs, is investigating the problems of homeless Aborigines; 
of the 1977 report by the Office for Community Relations on the difficulties encountered by Aboriginals in finding accommodation in the Guildford area, on 20 March 1 978, when a copy was obtained on request. The report is being studied by officers of my Department. Its conclusions will be taken fully into account in the administration ofthe program. 
Aboriginal Children in the Northern Territory: Hearing Defects  (Question No. 144) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department's attention was drawn to the final report of  Australian Studies in School Performance- The Mastery of Literacy and Numeracy  (produced under the auspices of the Australian Council for Educational Research in April, 1977) soon after its release last year. The specific problem to which the honourable member refers is one of which my Department has been well aware and has been taking steps to resolve for some years. Most of the deafness of Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory is due to chronic otitis media which is associated with adverse environmental factors and is widely prevalent in Aboriginal communities. 
The measures being taken to overcome this handicap hinge on a twofold approach- intensive treatment programs for the basic associated disease and screening programs for the detection of deafness. In regard to the latter, the latest development has been the establishment in 1976 in Darwin of a hearing centre staffed by officers of the National Acoustic Laboratories to serve the Northern Territory. This centre has enabled the Northern Territory Division of my Department to begin a broad-based screening program for all school children. It is recognised that such a program may miss many Aboriginal children because of poor school attendance in some areas, but this deficiency is to receive increased attention as the service is developed. The program, commenced in Darwin, and now extending to the rural areas, was designed to augment the existing treatment program for the diseases associated with hearing defects. In view of the wide prevalence of chronic otitis media, the number of cases of significant hearing defect so far uncovered by the program has not been as great as expected. 
Although statistics on this matter are not at present distinguishable by race, there are a small number of Aboriginal children with known, significant, permanent hearing defects who have not been fitted with hearing aids for various cultural and psychological adjustment reasons. At present there is a lack of acceptance ofhearing aids by many members of the Aboriginal population, especially in remote communities. It is anticipated that, with the increasing assistance of Aboriginal health workers who are in close communication with their own people, and are now receiving training in primary audiometric screening under the program, some of these cultural and psychological problems will be overcome. 
An additional inducement to the wearing of hearing aids by severely handicapped children will be the production of a more acceptable device (now in the process of design at the National Acoustic Laboratories, Sydney)- that is one that is less obtrusive, more easily fitted, more robust, and therefore more suitable for Aboriginals living in these remote communities. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The State Offices of the Depanment of Social Security in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Hoban have no staff employed on tea-making and distribution as the provision of tea services is the responsibility of the Depanment of Employment and Industrial Relations. However staff are employed on tea-making and distribution at the following offices of the Depanment: 
(1) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) $21,484; (b) $1,040,413 
(a) 2 percent; (b) 98 percent. 
Yes. 
The Government has not taken any position whatsoever in respect to any modifications that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  may have in his mind. The honourable member must be clairvoyant. I am not aware of any pre-determined view of the Prime 
Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or any other Minister at this stage. The Government has not yet made any decision on the options that are available to it to continue the downward trend in the rise in health costs that has occurred in Australia during the last six years. Of course, health costs have exploded by 225 per cent in that time. The major part of that rise was incurred during the irresponsible term of the Whitlam Government. The largest increase was 36.6 per cent the year before Medibank became operative. This was due to the great explosion in wage costs across Australia and no doubt a number of other matters. Nonetheless, the great explosion took place at that time. A record increase took place in the level of doctors fees. Let no one say that the Whitlam Government was hard on the doctors of Australia. It is a fact of life that the then Government stuffed the doctors' mouths with gold while the doctors kicked it in the teeth. There was a 55 per cent rise in doctors' fees in about 18 months under the Whitlam government. So let no one say there was not a sweetheart agreement or some arrangement to try to get the new Australian Labor Party policy on health insurance into operation. 
The modifications have brought about a slowing in the rate of acceleration of health costs in Australia. As I said a moment ago health costs increased by 36.6 per cent in the year before Medibank was introduced. They increased by 27.1 per cent during the year Medibank was introduced. In the last financial year to 30 June 1977 they increased by 19.7 per cent. The Government is not bragging or boasting about that. It cites those figures to show that there has been a moderation in the rate of acceleration of health costs in Australia. The Government expects the figure to be much lower for 1977-78 because of the great changes that it has made to the pathology charging system in this country. The House will remember that the Government set up a committee of inquiry under  Dr Sidney  Sax. That committee was made up of representatives of the Royal College of Pathologists, the Royal Society of Private Practising Pathologists and the Australian Medical Association as well as representatives from State health administrations. These people were brought in to conduct a full scale inquiry into pathology costs in Australia. The modifications that have been made undoubtedly will be reflected in much lower medical costs in this country during 1977-78. 
At present we are coming to grips with problems associated with computerised axial tomography, or CAT scanning, which is another high technology apparatus that is available to diagnosticians in this country. Therefore this Government is well aware of the problems of and the necessity for such equipment. One of the great pushes to health costs in this country of course originates in the hospitals where 55 per cent of our health costs exist. The Government has entered into new cost sharing arrangements with the States in respect to health costs incurred in hospitals. We found the agreements with the States that were drawn up by the former Government to be invalid. No doubt these agreements were hastily drawn up on bad legal advice. I do not know who was the Attorney-General at the time but the advice was 'b' awful. No doubt the agreements were invalid because the States were not prepared to rest their muscle against the advice we received from our Attorney-General. New agreements were entered into with the States to try to bring about some cost containment. Commonwealth-State committees have examined the various forward estimates for 1977-78. The Commonwealth Government has decided to impose an even greater restraint upon the hospital system of this country by reducing those estimates by 5 per cent. 
It is true that there have been difficulties, but by and large the responsible hospital administrators and the State ministers have seen the value of the discipline that is being exercised by the Commonwealth to try to come to grips with extravagance. After all, they are not spending hospital money; they are spending public money that is coming out of people's pockets by way of taxation, by charges or by some other means. 
I will be talking about deductibles shortly. However, we have seen the great surge in the health costs reflected as a percentage of the gross national product. For instance, in 1 973-74, 5.92 per cent of the gross national product was spent on health costs. In 1 974-75 the proportion was 6.83 per cent; in 1975-76 it was 7.38 per cent; and in 1 976-77 it was 7.67 per cent. It is true that the Government had to do something about the rising health costs because if it had not the opportunity for expenditures to be made in other vital and important areas would have been crowded out. The alternative was to increase taxation and slug the Australian people even more than they have been slugged in recent years in this area. 
We are trying to make sure that the dollar that is spent on health care is wisely spent. The money that is being spent on health in Australia is not necessarily improving the morbidity or the mortality rate in this country. The honourable member for Prospect as a medical practitioner would be the first to admit that. 
There is no area with a greater appetite for expenditure than the health area, and this throws enormous responsibility on governments, State and Federal, and on the medical profession and the providers of health care to make sure that the decisions they make, whether outside or inside the hospital, are made against the background of some cost consciousness. If we do not achieve this we will crowd out opportunities for expenditure in other important social welfare, education and job creation areas. It is a responsibility that I as the Minister for Health in the Fraser Government accept with some degree of satisfaction because I know that if we come to grips with it there will be further resources for more important areas of expenditure in the community. I do not say that I want the area bled dry or the juice squeezed out of the rind. 
The honourable member for Prospect made quite a lot of the system of front-end deductibles. It is true to say that we have not yet a really accurate statistical profile from the time when changes were made on 1 October 1976 to be able to make some of the more radical changes that have been put to us by people who have written to us and are referred to in some of the options spelt out in this paper. There is a whole range of options including co-insurance- we have a type of co-insurance in Australia now- co-payment, front-end deductibles, indemnity payments, exclusion of benefits arrangements, maximum limits, catastrophic insurance and no-claim bonuses. A whole range of options has been put to us by various committees, professional people and the hundreds of individuals who have written in. Certainly some changes to the present arrangements need to be considered, in view of the changes that were made to include nursing home cover in the health insurance arrangements. However, it is true to say that we do not yet have a complete profile. We are doing everything in our power to get it. 
One of the reasons we have not got that information is that prior to 1 October 1976 a number of funds, including one of the major funds in Australia, did not even keep lists of their membership. The Government has made it a condition of registration that funds provide to the Minister or to the Department of Health the statistical information that we require from them to enable policy decisions to be made and proper reviews and evaluations of the health insurance system to take place. 
I was not the shadow Minister for Health then but I guess that what the honourable member for Prospect has said is correct. However, he must admit that that was done in the context of quite different circumstances. The changes that we made were necessary for the new modified system which we introduced under which health insurance funds have a much greater percentage of the business. I have been very understanding of the problems that the funds had and, indeed, that my Department had in the changeover on 1 October 1976 and I have not really dropped the sledgehammer on anybody's head over the provision of statistics, but I have made it clear to the health insurance funds that I want statistics provided now. They have had sufficient time to get their machines operating and to provide the Government with the new data that is necessary to enable it to do a proper evaluation and review of the health insurance system. 
One of the reasons we made public this discussion paper on the paying for health care produced by the Hospital and Health Services Commission was to enable discussion and debate to take place both inside and outside this Parliament. I welcome the opportunity that the honourable member for Prospect has taken to put forward the views of the Opposition in relation to front-end deductibles and other matters which he raised today. 
-The honourable member for Prospect has made so many assumptions and guesses about what the Government is going to do that he apparently sees in the Prime Minister's mind things that I cannot see. I know that the Prime Minister, and the Government, have kept their minds open and following the review will make a decision based on the information available. I do not know what is the Australian Labor Party's policy on health. I am disappointed that the honourable member for Prospect did not spell it out but he will need to do it before too long. One would have expected the honourable member to put forward at least a broader view of the Labor Party's policy on health insurance but perhaps he did not feel disposed to do it at this time. I can assure him that there is no way that this Government will penalise the poorer section of the Australian community. We support wholeheartedly these important words in the discussion paper:  . . . medical care is of such vital importance to so many in the community that it should be financed on a basis which removes financial barriers that could impede access to essential care. The central problem is that if increases in expenditure continue unchecked, a critical situation could develop and result in arbitrary curtailments of both supply and access. 
This is a problem which is bugging most Western countries that are struggling with the problem with which we in Australia are struggling. Already we have taken some very substantial steps to try to come to grips with the problem. We have asked the Australian Medical Association and the medical profession to accept peer review as a concept. I am pleased to say that I believe they will do so. We will seek to establish utilisation review and accreditation of hospitals in Australia. We are undertaking a complete review of the health insurance system using the statistical data as it becomes available. We are looking at no-claim bonus arrangements and at widening the contribution of patients who receive in excess of certain incomes. There is one guarantee that I can give the House and the nation and that is that the Government will not sit idly by and watch the mounting health bill in Australia consume our social welfare dollar to the extent that it has done over the last six years. The changes that we have made already have put us half-way down the road. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 

 - Mr Speaker, I was a boy scout; I am always prepared. I am sure that the honourable member for Petrie will be pleased to know that the usage of medical services and the rate of increase in health costs have fallen considerably since the modifications to the health scheme were introduced on 1 October 1976. 1 think that is to the credit of the Fraser Government. Obviously the great explosion in health costs was causing a great deal of concern to the Australian community and was crowding out the opportunities for expenditures in other essential areas. Since the modifications were made we have seen the proportion of gross national product devoted to health care fall considerably. Just to give examples, in 1974-75 the total expenditure on health care was $4, 109m. In 1975-76 it had escalated to $5,224m which was 27. 1 per cent up on the figure for the previous year. In 1976-77 it had risen to $6, 254m, which was up by 19.1 per cent. Sure, the percentage increase was reduced but we are not complacent about it. 
The amended preliminary statistical information that is available indicates that, in 1974-75, 66 million services were paid for, costing $4 1 7m. In 1975-76 there were 83 million services costing $777m. That amount was up by 86 per cent as a result of the introduction of Medibank. In 1976-77, 78.5 million services were paid for and they cost $846m. That was an increase in total cost of 9 per cent but the level of services was down by 5.3 per cent on the figure for the previous year. That was the first time for some years that there was a reduction in the level of services per head of population. I think it is heartening news to those who underwent a lot of attack when those modifications were made. I am sure that the public generally would appreciate that, in the public interest and in the interest of the community, we have started to grab hold of the very serious cost escalation that has been plaguing this country and most Western nations throughout the world. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) An estimate of the total number of terminations of unemployment benefits can be obtained by subtracting the number of beneficiaries current at the end of a period from the total number of beneficiaries current at the beginning of a period plus the number of benefits granted during the period. Using this method, there were 81 1,000 terminations in 1976 and 794,000 in 1977. A breakdown of these estimates by reason for termination is not available. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 468 on 4 April 1978, House of Representatives,  Hansard,  page 978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The amounts expended on fares and travelling allowances, excluding car hire in 1976-77 are set out below. For comparison I have incorporated figures for the two full financial years of the previous government i.e. 1973-74 and 1974-75: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Departments of Business and Consumer Affairs, Employment and Industrial Relations and Health are represented. The Department of Productivity is also participating in an advisory capacity. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 3 on 4 April 1978, House of Representatives,  Hansard,  page 966. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (10) No staff canteens are operated by my Depanment. 
I thank the honourable member for the question. It would appear that the Hospital Contributions Fund is playing musical chairs with its contributors. In other words, when a person is in a nursing home the fund says he should opt out of membership and when he gets out of the nursing home he can opt back into membership. That is a quite extraordinary position for a health fund to adopt. I think that those people who were invited to do that would be advised to opt right out of the HCF and join another fund. I have asked my Department to undertake an immediate inquiry into the reasons for the HCF taking this action. It is understood that the HCF is using rules that were recently approved to enable it to suspend membership for such reasons as contributors being sick and unemployed or desiring to suspend membership for a temporary period for reasons approved by the executive commmittee. Those rules were approved but the HCF is now using those rules to suit its own purpose. Recently the Government approved new rates for the HCF to cover contributors who were in nursing homes. I am having the whole matter investigated. I expect to be in touch with the fund today. 
The honourable member has highlighted one of the real problems that we face in trying to come to grips with the great health cost problem. Other governments and countries in the Western world have also been trying to come to grips with it. Unfortunately, the escalating bill for the treatment of illness has reached such a proportion that insufficient resources have been available for important preventive health education programs. The community health program, of course, has a tremendous potential for going to the grass roots of the community in respect of health education plans. The program also tries to encourage people to alter lifestyle, not to take up smoking or to stop smoking, not to drink as much and to eat the right types of food. Obviously lifestyle and the environment in which people live have a tremendous influence on the state of health of people in the community. 
It is true to say, as the honourable member has suggested, that the public health measures that have been taken in the last 40 years including sanitation programs, fluoridation of water and immunisation have done more to improve health standards than any other single factor since mankind has been on earth. I believe where possible the Government should be aiming at both State and Federal areas. Health educators and the medical profession should be doing as much as they can to improve lifestyles and to encourage good practice and preventative medicine. This in itself in the longer term should help to reduce the mounting costs of maintaining health standards and treating disease in this country. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department had, as at 31 March 1978, 15 staff with special attributes as regards formal qualifications or special expertise in medical rehabilitation. However, they are outposted to the Department of Social Security in each State. 
In respect of medical rehabilitation generally, the Department has established a working party to identify current needs in medical rehabilitation and to recommend improved solutions for the Government's consideration. The activities and deliberations of the working party are restricted to those areas which are within the responsibility of my portfolio. The Department is also a member of the Standing Interdepartmental Committee on Rehabilitation and chairs the Working Party on Medical and Surgical Aids and Appliances. 
The Department also has a primary medical rehabilitation role in the Northern Territory. Limited medical rehabilitation facilities are available, at this time, at the Darwin and Alice Springs Hospitals and through Community Health Centres in Darwin. The East Arm Leprosy Hospital provides specialised rehabilitation, services. However, plans have been prepared for a comprehensive rehabilitation unit at Darwin Hospital and are at present under consideration. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Prime Minister to question No. 468  (Hansard,  4 April 1978, p. 978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)- 
In view of the very serious consideration that has been given to the problems facing Tasmania, naturally the Government will consider the problem of the shortage of rheumatologists there, but basically it is a State problem. I will look at the matter, but I will give no undertaking to meet such a request. 
The Government is very concerned about the increased evidence that has become available to it of abuse of social service benefits and allegations of abuses in the areas of social security benefits, health benefits and education allowances. It is utterly intolerable that people should wilfully defraud the system at the expense of other taxpayers in the community. The Government has given consideration to a number of measures. Indeed a number of actions have already been taken in the social security area to lessen the opportunity for fraud. A number of actions have also been taken in the health insurance area to uncover cases of fraud and to deal with them. However, the Government has decided to send officials overseas to cany out investigations of provisions that have been implemented in other countries to stop fraud and abuse. 
Suggestions have been made that people who are receiving benefits should be identified as a means of reducing the possibility of fraud. The Government is not committed to that policy but it will be looking at what has been done in that regard in other areas. One thing that is certain is that the Government is not prepared to stand by and allow fraud and abuse to take place in the areas of social service benefits, health insurance arrangements and education allowances at the expense of the rest of the community. In other words, we are not going to allow a minority of the people to bludge on the majority. 
The implication in the question asked by the honourable member for Prospect, of course, is that every pensioner who enters a hospital will make a patient contribution. That, of course, is a blatant exaggeration. Let us put the question into perspective. All of the State Ministers for Health, all of their officials and my officials, as well as myself, have been looking at the prospect of ensuring that there is proper use of resources within the public hospital system. As the honourable member for Prospect would know, there are quite a number of nursing-home type patients in our public hospital system, and they are there because there is not adequate facility for them in nursing homes. Most of the State Ministers- indeed, most of the officials who have a responsibility for the administration of the hospital system- agree that such long-stay patients who would otherwise be in nursing homes should receive the Commonwealth benefit or a benefit from an insurance fund as a nursing home patient and that, therefore, the patient would make a contribution out of his or her pension towards that stay in hospital. 
The honourable member might be interested to know that his counterparts in the New South Wales Labor Government are not averse to that idea. The honourable member might be like the Irishman who believes he is the only one in step. So quite clearly there is an awareness and a willingness on the part of most Ministers- indeed, all hospital administrators whom I have met- to recognise and to face up to the problem of ensuring that the resources of the hospital system are used to the best advantage and that the nursinghome type patients who are in hospital for longstay purposes make a contribution towards their board and lodging, as they would do if they were in a nursing home. 
I am not fully aware of the study to which the honourable gentleman refers. However, my Department has access to a number of studies and a quite considerable amount of information that leads one to believe that uranium mining has, in fact, increased the incidence of lung cancer. I responded to a question on notice from the honourable member for Prospect and provided him with what information was available to my Department. The honourable member will recall that when the Australian Labor Party Government was in office the Department of Health was instructed to draw up a code for the mining and milling of uranium ores and the Government regards that code as being probably the most advanced code of its type in the world. It was prepared in association with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and it draws upon the most modern scientific advice available and ensures that uranium mining in Australia will be undertaken in accordance with the strictest code that has ever been applied. 
Whilst one would be foolish to assume that the mining of uranium is without danger- no mining occupation is free of danger- one would assume that as a result of the application of the code that was drawn up during the term of the former Labor Government and adopted by this Government the dangers and extent of lung cancer or any other type of cancer would be lessened. I will take the trouble to draw my Department's attention to the report referred to by the honourable member and let him know the Department's view in due course. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) (i) nil, (a) (ii) one. (b) (i) one, (b) (ii) two. 
(i) $74,642. (ii) Other costs in the provision of tea services are fully met by patrons of the service as required by the financial regulations. 
The salaries of $74,642 paid in 1976-77 were for the four staff indicated in (1) above plus eleven canteen staff allocated part-time (up to six hours per day) for the provision of tea services in Central Office. The eleven canteen staff transferred on 1 July 1977 fromDepartment of Health to Commonwealth Hostels which is now responsible for the operation of canteens that provide tea services to most Department of Health Offices. 
The above does not include provision of tea services to patients and staff in Northern Territory hospitals. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The principal reasons for this approach are: 
Animals from different regions of the world constitute different animal disease risks. Mixing of animal consignments from these different regions would result in exposure of some animals to diseases which do not exist in their country of origin. All animals in such a mixed group would have to be subjected to the conditions laid down for the originating country of greatest risk. Should any animal fail a disease test, it might be necessary, depending on the nature of the disease involved, to destroy all animals at the station or return them to their countries of origin. 
For the most part, it is intended that the station will operate on the 'all in all out' quarantine principle. On the other hand, mixed consignments of animals from different regions of the world would be required to undergo different periods of quarantine at the station. 
The logistics and cost of 'on-farm' testing and preexport quarantine make such an approach most secure and practical. 
Notwithstanding this general approach, there may be circumstances involving various species from various regions for which joint quarantine may be possible. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Set out hereunder is a statement comparing current estimates of operating costs and receipts with those set out in Appendix G of my Department's submission to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works in 1 973. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department indicated to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works in 1973 that the costs to the importer of bringing adult cattle from Europe through the high security quarantine station could be $2,300 per headexcluding the value of the animal or transport. This figure is now estimated at $2,575. 
No. The estimated fees have been based on the recovery of the operational costs of the station and the costs of preembarkation, assembly, testing and quarantine overseas. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In no way. The major advances in artificial insemination since 1 973 have been in semen freezing techniques applied to species other than cattle, while the major advances in ova transplants have related to non-surgical methods of transplanting and of storage. None of this work has facilitated disease detection, recognition or control, nor has it increased the very limited range of countries from which semen and ova can be safely imported into Australia. The developments referred to have not reduced the need for the station. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The question of Australian participation in reciprocal arrangements on social security with other countries is presently being given very serious and urgent consideration. 
The Government is not in a position to make any firm announcement at this time, but is pressing on with consideration of the case for new reciprocal agreements and the terms on which they might be negotiated with other countries. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Smoke detectors using Americium-241 are imported into Australia from a number of countries, principally the U.S.A. and U.K. None is manufactured in Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No figures are available estimating daily consumption of alcohol per person in each State or Territory for the years specified in the honourable member's question. However in February 1977 the Australian Bureau of Statistics conducted a survey throughout Australia to obtain information about the alcohol and tobacco consumption patterns of the Australian population aged 1 8 years and over. 
Preliminary results of this survey indicate the following alcohol consumption patterns for each State or Territory: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) At present under Standard Medibank medical benefits arrangements, benefits are provided for medical treatment rendered by legally qualified medical practitioners, certain prescribed medical services rendered by approved dentists in the operating theatres of approved hospitals, and optometrical consultations by participating optometrists. 
In view of the current need for restraint in Government expenditure, it is not proposed at this stage, to include such items as hearing aids in the medical benefits arrangements under Standard Medibank. 
Notwithstanding the above, private health insurance organisations may, if they so desire, provide benefits for items such as hearing aids under supplementary benefits tables. 
The Government has maintained the policy in relation to supplementary benefits of largely allowing private health insurance organisations to determine for themselves the nature and extent of supplementary benefits they may wish to offer, and the terms and conditions applicable to the payment of those benefits. The Government's role in respect of supplementary benefits is largely one of approving the benefits and relevant contribution rates in the context of financial viability of the table. 
Some health insurance organisations do in fact offer supplementary benefits for hearing aids. However, persons may be precluded from receiving such benefits, because of a preexisting ailment rule. Under this provision the payment of benefits in the supplementary tables may be refused if the organisation, in its opinion, considered the condition or its symptoms were in evidence to the contributor at or prior to the date of joining the table. 
Public Servants: Employment after Resignation 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Currently, there are 62 women's refuges approved for Commonwealth financial assistance. These are located as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have received a full account of events relating to the M.V.  Vishna Kalyan. 
All members of the party which undertook the special tour of inspection of the vessel on IS June 1977 have denied making such a statement or having heard it made by others. 
The Master of the vessel was heard to make such a statement by officers of my Department in Melbourne. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The importation of animals through the offshore animal quarantine station from the USA, Canada, Western Europe (including Scandinavia) and Japan will be arranged as soon as practicable after station operations commence. At this stage, it is planned that importations from such countries would be preceded by consignments from the UK and Ireland, relatively safe countries, to allow operation techniques at the station to be tested and adjusted before importations from countries of higher risk are undertaken. 
Importation of live animals from this range of countries will significantly broaden Australia's avenues of access to improved genetic material. 
At this stage it is considered probable that importations of animals from such countries as South America, the African continent, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and, possibly, Mexico will be delayed until testing facilities are available at the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory. 
Priorities between species and between countries of origin will be determined in the light of recommendations made by an expert advisory committee which it is planned to establish for this purpose. The committee will base its considerations on such factors as industry needs, potential value to 
Australia, and the availability of genes through alternative means. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The disease transmissibility of semen and ova (embryos) has been demonstrated by specific research for a small number of diseases only. However, disease virus is widespread in body fluids and tissues during certain stages of most viral diseases. In addition, certain bacterial and protozoan diseases involving the genito-urinary tract may result in the presence of disease organisms in semen and ova. 
On this basis, it must be assumed that the following viral, bacterial and protozoan diseases could be transmitted through semen or through ova transplants. 
Viral diseases including: 
Cattle/Sheep/Goats- Foot and Mouth Disease, Rinderpest, Bluetongue, Infectious Bovine Rhinotracheitis (cattle only), Sheep Pox (sheep only). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The subsidies payable in pursuance of section 82aa ofthe National Health Act 1953 in respect of persons who take out hospital-only ' insurance are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I assume the question relates essentially to technetium99m pertechnatate, which is the form in which the isotope is most commonly used for imaging. 
1 ) No, there has been no problem associated with technetium99m pertechnatate used to explore the spread of cancer in brain tumour patients. 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission (AAEC) supplies technetium-99m pertechnatate in the ready-to-use form as well as in the form of devices called generators, from which it can be obtained by users. 
Problems have been experienced only with the readytouse technetium-99 pertechnatate extracted from the parent material by one particular process and then only when used for bone imaging in combination with another material. This problem is presently being studied by a working party of nuclear medicine specialists from Sydney hospitals and the AAEC. 
This product, like all AAEC radiopharmaceuticals, is subject to strict quality control procedures. 
1 have no knowledge of any action that may have been taken by the N.S.W. Health Commission of the importation of a substitute product. However I understand that the AAEC has encouraged rather than obstructed N.S.W. hospitals attempting to import a satisfactory substitute until the present technical difficulties are overcome. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In recent months three experienced Veterinary Officers have been appointed to the Animal Quarantine Branch and an offer of appointment has been made to a fourth. One these officers has been appointed Assistant Director-General (Animal Quarantine) following the retirement of the previous incumbent. 
Additional veterinary staff will be sought at the appropriate time to meet the work loads expected with the development of the offshore quarantine station. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I have stated previously in the House, I have created a Working Party within my Department to advise on a workable scheme for providing assistance towards the cost of orthodontic treatment for cleft lip and palate conditions. The Working Party feels that the matter can best be resolved by an extension of the Medical Benefits Schedule together with the operation of specialised clinics in some state hospitals. 
I have written to the State Health Ministers seeking their co-operation in respect of the setting up, as appropriate, of the clinics. Pending discussions with the States it would not be possible to provide the honourable member with an estimate of the cost of operating the clinics. The cost will, of course be shared between the Commonwealth and the States under the normal cost-sharing arrangements. 
As regards to extension of the Medical Benefits Schedule to cover orthodontic treatment it is estimated to cost, on current projections, approximately $2.6m per annum. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The letter was written by  Dr Bull  on 17 June 1977 at the request of the Master of the vessel. It is understood that the voyage had been his first overseas command following 18 years of administration and he felt disquiet at the implications raised by a special inspection of his vessel by a party which included non-quarantine personnel.  His  ship had been fumigated before he left India and he was concerned that the inspection could imply to the owners that there was an inadequate standard of cleanliness throughout his ship. 
On 15 June 1977  Dr Bull,  Director of Health, New South Wales, accompanied  Mr R.  Perriman,  Mr G.  Temme and  Mr G.  Cameron (the members and the secretary of an inquiry established by the Public Service Board to look into matters relating to  Mr Toomer)  on an examination of the officers' and crew galleys, food stores, two crew cabins and an officer's cabin. The purpose of the visit was to familiarise the members ofthe inquiry with the nature of quarantine inspections. A full inspection ofthe vessel was carried out separately by the Quarantine Inspector and other Quarantine personnel (with the exception of holds completely full of cargo). 
I am advised that Masters of vessels do occasionally request Bills of Health or Certificates of Cleanliness for various reasons. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  lam aware of the problems faced by sufferers of multiple sclerosis. 
The present basic medical benefits arrangements cover medical treatment by legally qualified medical practitioners, certain prescribed medical services rendered by approved dental practitioners in the operating theatres of approved hospitals, and consultations by participating optometrists. 
In view of the continuing need for restraint in Commonwealth expenditure, it is unlikely that the basic medical benefits arrangements will be extended to cover physiotherapy in the near future. 
I would point out that the Commonwealth already provides financial assistance to the States for schemes which allow the provision of physiotherapy. These schemes are the States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act and the Community Health Program. 
Under the States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act, where a State contributes to an approved paramedical service, which may include physiotherapy, the Commonwealth will reimburse 50 per cent of this amount. The service must be wholly or mainly for aged persons in their homes. I should point out that only South Australia, Victoria and Tasmania have become participating States under this scheme to date. 
Under the Community Health Program, a wide variety of projects is funded in each State and many of those projects provide physiotherapy services. Commonwealth assistance under the Community Health Program takes the form of an annual block grant to each State for the State's total program of projects which have been jointly approved by the State and the Commonwealth for funding in the year concerned. The Commonwealth generally meets 50 per cent of capital costs and 75 per cent of operating costs of approved projects, the balances generally being contributed by the State. In the first instance, it is a matter for each State to propose projects for inclusion in its approved program. 
The availability of Commonwealth funds for new projects under the States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act and the Community Health Program is a matter for consideration by the Government in the Budget context. Subject to the outcome of that consideration, I would be most willing to receive from the States new proposals aimed at alleviating the problems faced by sufferers of multiple sclerosis. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Dr R.  Bull (Director, New South Wales Division),  Mr R.  Fernandez (Quarantine Inspector) and  Mr R.  Broadhurst (Quarantine Assistant, Grade 3 ). 

 Mr R. Perriman and  Mr G.  Temme accompanied the departmental officers on a special tour of inspection of the vessel on 1 S June 1 977 for the purpose of familiarising themselves with the procedure involved in conducting a quarantine inspection of a vessel. 
and (4) The vessel was inspected except for holds full of cargo on 14 June 1977 by  Mr Fernandez  and  Mr Broadhurst.  The superstructure was examined on this date and found to be satisfactory. There were old traces of rodent infestation in the crew galley and a few cockroaches were seen. By 16 June 1977 with some cargo removed, it was possible for  Mr Broadhurst  to inspect the tops of most holds. Old traces of rodent infestation were found in No. 4 hold in the tween deck area. The lower holds were still full of cargo and could not be examined. A Plant Quarantine Officer reported evidence of khapra beetle in the store. The vessel was also visited on 17, 18 and 19 June 1977 for inspections of the galley waste storage areas. During this period the hatches were closed except for intermittent loading. The ship sailed from Sydney on 22 June 1977 for Melbourne with its holds still half full of cargo. 
Yes. The letter stated: 'On a special tour of inspection of your ship on 1 S June 1 977 by officials of this Department, there was no visible evidence of infestation with either rodents or cockroaches. Generally, it was found that hygiene was of a satisfactory standard. On behalf of the Department I wish to thank you for your co-operation throughout the tour of inspection'. 
The Master requested it. It is understood that the voyage had been his first overseas command following eighteen years of administration and he felt disquiet at the implications raised by a special tour of inspection of his vessel by a party which included non-quarantine personnel. His ship had been fumigated before he left India and it is understood that he was concerned that the inspection could imply to his owners that there was an inadequate standard of cleanliness throughout his ship. 
No. However, for various reasons Masters of vessels occasionally ask for Bills of Health or Certificates of Cleanliness relating to their ships. 
No.  Mr Perriman  and  Mr Temme  did not see the letter. 
On 27 and 28 June 1977. 
10)  Mr R.  Dine (Quarantine Assistant, Grade 4) and  Mr M.  Khan (Quarantine Assistant, Grade 1 ) Also, on 28 June 1977, the Senior Quarantine Inspector,  Mr F.  Atherton, made an inspection ofthe vessel. 
Rodent droppings in several parts of the vessel including the crew's galley, provision store and No. 2 hold; live cockroaches in galleys, officers ' pantry and petty officers ' mess; live grain insects in the main provision store; dead khapra beetles (adults, larvae and casts) in the main provision store. 
Yes. 
The quarantine services at Adelaide and Fremantle were advised of the findings and sent copies of the Inspectors' reports. There was no time before sailing to institute baiting for rodents, or institute spray treatment against cockroaches while the vessel was in Melbourne. 
Yes. The letter was produced and shown to inspection staff, presumably to suggest that further inspections were not necessary. 
No. 
The  Vishna Kalyan  visited Adelaide on 2 July and Fremantle on 10 July 1977. Quarantine inspections were undertaken at both ports and it appeared that the vessel had been cleaned during passage to Adelaide and to Fremantle. Against this background and in the light of the two quarantine inspections the following quarantine procedures were undertaken: 
Adelaide: Trapping and baiting of the crew's and officers' galley were commenced the same day and continued until the vessel left Adelaide for Fremantle on 4 July 1977. Three rats were caught after this operation. A report on this action was sent to Fremantle. 
Fremantle: The vessel was almost fully loaded and stayed only 24 hours; no cargo was discharged. It was estimated that there were five rats on the vessel and accordingly anticoagulant baits were laid down throughout the ship. Pulse beetles were found in coffee beans in the store and these were ordered to be soaked in salt water and disposed of at sea. The galley was sprayed with a long-lasting insecticide against cockroach infestation. 
Prior to arriving in Sydney, the  Vishna Kalyan  had called at Brisbane on 9 June 1 977. The ship inspection report indicated that rodent, insect and state of general hygiene were satisfactory on inspection. The vessel had previously visited Brisbane on 7 June 1973 when it was recorded that health and sanitary states were satisfactory. The ship has visited Sydney ten times between 1966 and 1972. The quarantine history has been satisfactory during this period. The visit to Melbourne on 27 June 1977 was the first to that port and there is therefore no previous history of inspections. The standard of hygiene on this vessel is that expected on general cargo carrying ships of advanced age. 
The khapra list is supplied by the Department of Primary Industry. It contains the names of ships which are potential carriers of grain infested with khapra beetle, so that special attention may be given to these vessels on arrival at 
Australian pons. The  Vishna Kalyan  was on this list on 15 June 1977. 
Yes. 
Yes. The allegation has been investigated. No member of the party which visited the vessel had any knowledge of the statement alleged to have been made to the Master. 
Each officer comprising the party has been specifically questioned on the matter and each had individually denied having made such a statement or having heard it made by any other member of the party. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An expert advisory committee will be established to examine all applications and recommend priorities among species, breeds and types of animals. 
Current plans are that before the Australian National 
Animal Health Laboratory is established the offshore animal quarantine station will be available for the importation of animals from the United Kingdom and Ireland, Western Europe, the United States, Canada and Japan. Importation of live animals from this range of countries will significantly broaden Australia's avenues of access to improved genetic material. The availability of the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory will further extend this range of countries. 
I invite the attention of honourable members to Note 5 of the notes to and forming part of the accounts of Medibank Private on page 27 under the sub-heading 'Accounting for Fixed Assets'. This note states that an advising from the Attorney-General's Department is to the effect that payments by Medibank Private to Medibank Standard in relation to assets purchased prior to 1 July 1976 would be contrary to the terms of the Health Insurance Commission Act 1973. I am taking action to have the legislation amended to provide that payments by Medibank Private to Medibank Standard in relation to such assets may be made. In the meantime, a contingency account is being established so that Medibank Private may meet its commitments when the Health Insurance Commission Act 1973 has been changed in this respect. 
This is the first report of the Commission since it began on 1 October 1976 to operate as a registered private health insurance organisation. The report has been delayed because of the need for all interested bodies to be satisfied as to the form of presentation of the accounts and because of the need for the Auditor-General to satisfy himself on the application of the cost apportionment principles adopted and on the principles and calculations of accounts for Medibank Private. Now that precedents on accounting matters have been established, similar delays should not occur in the future. I table the report. 
Australia has one of the highest nursing home bed to population ratios in the world and the domiciliary nursing care program is probably one of the best social welfare initiatives that the Government is pursuing to try to deinstitutionalise the care of aged people. In fact, it is an aim of the Government to try to deinstitu.tionalise the care of the sick, the care of those who require rehabilitation and certainly the care of the aged. The domiciliary nursing care program is intended to provide an incentive to pursue this objective. The benefit currently applies only to those patients 65 years and over but, as the honourable member for Mallee indicated, the Prime Minister announced during the election campaign last year that the Government would move to reduce the age limit from 65 years to 16 years so that the program would provide cover for paraplegics and other people who receive intensive care in either a nursing home or an institution but who also receive care with assistance from their parents or relatives in their own homes. I expect the Government to take a decision on this matter in the context of the Budget and to give consideration to increasing the present level of benefit which has not been increased since the program was commenced. The rules of eligibility have been relaxed very substantially since I became the Minister so that more people are being covered under this program. Honourable members may recall that the rule was that only those people who received two visits a week from a nurse would be eligible. I think the former Labor Government made some innovations in respect of people living in isolated areas. We have extended that provision now so that, where a doctor and a trained nurse believe that the people who are caring for the patient are capable of providing adequate care, the frequency of visits by the trained nurse is to be reduced. We are very conscious of the program - 
No, I did not see the program, but I have had some complaints about the way in which the program was presented. I have asked my Department to furnish me with a report on the program. I have sought a transcript of the program. The preliminary advice that I have received is that the spokesman from the National Health and Medical Research Council who appeared on the program did not get prior advice of the type of questions to be asked. Some of the questions were outside his professional province. 
Some of the questions I said, and I suppose that should be sufficient. In any event, I think the honourable member should understand that the Council only makes recommendations relating to poisonous substances or substances that could have a harmful effect on the community and it is then up to the States and the Territories to pass legislation, if they think fit, to accommodate the recommendations of the Council. Why the  Four Corners  program did not have some State spokesmen there to answer for their inactivity in some of these matters I do not have a clue. 
The answer to the first question is yes. The answer to the second question is yes. The answer to the third question is that it would need a very long study to come to that conclusion. However, the Government is currently looking at all possibilities in regard to health insurance. 
Owing to the great backlog of applications for hearing aids, the National Acoustic Laboratories in the various States have had to concentrate most of their resources in coping with applications for hearing aids for pensioners and for young people in particular. However, 1 have had some complaints about the cessation of home visits for additional fittings. I shall investigate the matter. In fact I have been concerned about it. If, within our resources, we are able to reinstate those home visits we will but our present preoccuption is trying to catch up with the applications that have been made for new hearing aids and to reduce the waiting list. In that regard the National Acoustic Laboratories have been extremely successful. But I can give the honourable member an assurance that I shall keep in touch with him about his concern. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total contributions to the Hospital Benefits Reinsurance Trust Fund by each registered hospital benefits organisation for the period from 1 October 1976 to 31 December 1977 (5 quarterly settlement periods) are shown in the table set out below. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
1 ) The Minister for Social Security has responsibility for co-ordinating Australia's participation in the International Year of the Child (IYC). This includes Commonwealth Government support for, and participation in, the Year. 
The Minister for Social Security is the  Chairman  of a Committee of Commonwealth Ministers set up by the Government to co-ordinate the Commonwealth response to the IYC. The other Ministers on the Committee are:- 
Minister for Education Minister for Foreign Affairs Minister for Finance Minister for Aboriginal Affairs Minister for Health 
Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs Minister for Home Affairs. 
An interdepartmental committee, comprising officials from the Departments of these Ministers, has been established to support the Committee of Commonwealth Ministers. 
A National Committee of Non-Government Organisations is being established to assist voluntary organisations and community groups to plan and co-ordinate activities related to the celebration of the Year. Details of the formation of this Committee were given by the Minister for Social Security in a news release of 5 March 1 978. 
The Commonwealth Government is providing a grant of $30,000 per year up to and including 1979 to the UNICEF Committee of Australia to finance a secretariat for the National Committee of Non-Government Organisations. The secretariat offices are located in the Sydney Headquarters of the Department of Social Security. 
The Commonwealth Government has made provision for $100,000 primarily for promotion and publicity of IYC within Australia. Proposals from the National Committee of Non-Government Organisations for promotion of the Year will be considered in the light of that financial provision. 
To date, the Minister for Social Security has made two announcements concerning Australia's participation in the IYC: 
In a news release of 20 October 1977, the Minister indicated the Commonwealth Government's intentions regarding planning bodies to co-ordinate Australian participation (i.e. a Committee of Commonwealth Ministers, a Committee of Commonwealth/State Ministers and a National Committee of Non-Government Organisations). This news release also announced the Commonwealth grant of $30,000 per year to finance a secretariat for the National Committee of Non-Government Organisations. 
In a news release of 5 March 1978, the Minister announced the composition of the National Committee of Non-Government Organisations. 
Further announcements will be made, as appropriate, giving details of different aspects of Australia 's participation in this international event. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is only in recent years that Australian medical schools have introduced into their curricula consideration of the economics of health care. While the coverage needs to be improved, all medical schools now provide students with some exposure to the area. 
It is pleasing to note that the present deficiencies have been recognised and that increasing prominence is being given in undergraduate medical education to the economic implications of health care with particular emphasis on the issues associated with medical services. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) A position of Senior Technical Officer Grade 1 that was formerly located at the Plant Quarantine Research Station, and which had become vacant in August 1976, was withdrawn on 7 October 1976 to the Departmental Reserve Pool. It was considered at the time that, despite a need for the position, filling it could not be justified in view of the overall priorities and staffing limits within the Quarantine Division of the Department. 
The requirements at the Plant Quarantine Research Station for technical staff to provide back up services to professional officers have since been reviewed and a position of Technical Officer Grade 2 has been allocated for this purpose. Arrangements are being made to fill this position. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None at present. 
The Ranger Inquiry recommended that the Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores should be made mandatory by legislation. The Government has decided to accept this recommendation but to go further and together with the States to establish by legislation uniform national codes which cover all aspects of mining and milling and transport of uranium as well as any future nuclear activities. 
The Government introduced the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978 in Parliament on 10 April 1978 which will provide means whereby the Code can be incorporated in Commonwealth legislation. Commonwealth legislation in this area while providing a framework for the development of codes is not intended to replace existing State legislation, nor will it prevent the introduction of new legislation by the States. It is for the States to initiate their own legislation to implement the codes. Commonwealth Regulations will be made only when a State fails to adopt a code and then only for such a time as is necessary until State legislation is in place. 
The Department of the Northern Territory has drafted amendments to the Regulations under the Mines Ordinance to incorporate aspects of the code and these will be presented to the Administrator-in-Council shortly. 

 - Mr Speaker - 
Yes, the Government has received a great number of representations from people throughout the community who have been concerned about the increasing number of abortions that are being carried out in the community and, as a result, the high cost of benefits that are being paid for those procedures. But as an honourable member from the Opposition side pointed out, it is a very vexed and very complex problem in that we do have a situation where there are differing laws as between the States. We assume that when a procedure is carried out within those States, it is carried out in accordance with that law. 
There is no way that I should like to see either the Health Insurance Commission or indeed the health insurance funds engage in a survey to ascertain which procedure was or was not carried out in accordance with the law. That of course would raise very serious questions of privacy and the rights of the individual. As I said, the Government has been concerned about the views of a great number of people and is currently giving consideration to a number of proposals. I should hope that, in the near future, the Government will be in a position to make an announcement on the issue. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of the comments in Supplementary Report of the Auditor-General for 1976-77 relating to an expenditure of $416,000 by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission. 
Section 19 (b) of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961 provides that if the Minister so determines CSL shall: 
undertake research towards the production of biological products of a kind used for therapeutic purposes being products other than those prescribed for production and sale; 
install or maintain plant or equipment capable of being used for the production of biological products; and 
produce and hold stocks of biological products for purposes other than the immediate sale of those products. 
Section 38 of the Act in effect provides that any trading profits of the Commission shall in the first instance be devoted to financing section 19(b) activities. The Commission can be reimbursed by the Commonwealth for costs of section 19(b) activities only if trading profits are insufficient to cover the full costs of those activities. 
Since the formation of the Commission in 1961 the Minister has issued determinations each financial year to support research and related section 19 (b) activities undertaken in the national interest. These activities of necessity are structured and organised basically as ongoing activities. 
Formal requests for section 19 (b) determinations in 1976-77 were forwarded to my Department by the CSL in June/July 1976 and were subject to discussion and further clarification with my Department before being submitted for my consideration. 
Section 19(b) determinations issued in 1 975-76 lapsed on 30 June 1976. During the period between 1 July 1976 and the signing of the ministerial determinations after the bringing down of the 1976-77 Budget, expenditure of approximately $4 1 6,000 was incurred by CSL on research and other continuing public health activities. The expenditure of the $4 1 6,000 in question was wholly financed by CSL. 
In the Commission's Annual Report for 1976-77, the actual costs of section 19(b) activities totalled $2,090,250, but as the Commission made a trading profit of $1,486,153, only $606,097 was reimbursed to the Commission by the 
Commonwealth under section 38 of the Act. The amount reimbursed did not, of course, include the $416,000 referred to above as this was not covered by ministerial determinations and the determinations, when issued, could not be applied retrospectively. 
The determinations covering all section 19 (b) activities for the current financial year (1977-78) were issued before the close of the previous financial year. The practice of issuing determinations for one year prior to the close of the previous year is to be continued where applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Planning for the station is being undertaken by the Central Office of the Department of Health in association with the Department of Construction. The design of the station has been reviewed in the light of the requirements for efficient station management and to allow modern methods of veterinary management and animal care to be implemented. As a result of this review, reductions in the estimated costs of construction have also been achieved and labour intensive activity reduced with consequential reductions in station operational costs. 
Management strategies to apply when the station is operational are being developed. 
The Department of Health is responsible for the operation, management and policy aspects of the station. The Department is seeking advice from and maintaining liaison with the Bureau of Animal Health and other organisations that have expertise in particular professional aspects of policy formulation and management. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
All personnel working at Maralinga were subject to stringent health procedures. Their activities in the field were strictly controlled and they were constantly monitored to ensure that they were not exposed to dangerous radiation. 
The majority of those who were conducting and monitoring the tests at Maralinga were UK. personnel. Any follow-up studies on those persons would be a matter for the UK Government to decide upon. 
Because of the stringent monitoring procedures undertaken at the time and the fact that they were not exposed to dangerous radiation, there is no proposal to institute studies on Australians who were in support of the UK activities at Maralinga from the rear areas. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The honourable member will be aware that the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health recommended that negotiations be commenced for the transfer of the laboratory at Port Pirie to South Australian administration. However, further consideration is to be given to this matter by the Government and at present my Department has no plans for such a transfer to take place in the near future. 
Whilst the laboratory remains a Commonwealth facility it will continue to operate at its present level and to provide a high standard of service to the people of Port Pirie and surrounding areas. 
Minister for Transport: Journey from Mt Isa to Mornington Island (Question No. 1069) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) At 20 February 1978 (a) 6,854; (b) 2,541. 
In addition, 1,188 wife's pensions were paid overseas to wives of age and invalid pensions at that date. 
The latest date for which information is compiled in the form sought by the honourable member is 30 June 1977. The numbers of age and invalid pensions paid overseas, by country of residence, at that date were: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Entitlement to Commonwealth pensioner fringe benefits ceases when income, other than pension, reaches $33 a week for a single person or $57.50 a week for a married couple. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. Because of the nature of the services and concessions available to pensioners holding a Pensioner Health Benefit card, there would be major difficulties in providing for entitlements to be 'tapered' as non-pension income increases; the proposal would also involve additional cost to revenue. Alternative options relating to fringe benefit entitlement are under consideration by my Department. 
5 ) The question whether persons receiving State superannuation are permitted to renounce increases in their superannuation is a matter solely for the State Governments. It is understood that the New South Wales and Victorian State Superannuation Boards have discretionary power to withhold superannuation increases or part thereof. 
Matters relating to eligibility for pensioner fringe benefits will be reviewed in the context of the 1978-79 Budget, along with the whole range of programs of Government expenditure. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) It is estimated that at 30 June 1977 there were 14,160 persons in receipt of Social Security pensions in the Electoral Division of Kingston. In addition, it is estimated that as at August 1977 there were 2,270 unemployment, sickness and special benefit recipients in the Electoral Division of Kingston. This represents the latest information available. 
(2)- 
-The answer to the . honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, although as I understand it, the document is still a draft. 
Yes. 
3 ) The distribution of the Association 's document, or any similar document, to hospital patients would be a matter for the health authorities that administer public hospitals and for the boards of management of private hospitals. The Medical Consumers' Association of NSW should, therefore, approach these organisations. However, I might add that the Australian Council on Hospital Standards, on which the Commonwealth is represented, aims to promote, through its voluntary hospital accreditation scheme, improved quality of patient care in Australian hospitals. Guidelines that pay increasing attention to staff/patient relationships are being developed within the accreditation scheme. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) All holders of Pension Health Benefit cards, including those with hearing difficulties, may qualify for the following Commonwealth Government concessions: 
Exemption from the Medibank Levy; Pharmaceutical concessions; Hearing Aid and Optometrical concessions; Reduced Telephone Rental; Reduced fares on Commonwealth Railways, Commonwealth Omnibus Services and the Australian National Shipping Line. If they reside in the A.C.T. or the Northern Territory they may also qualify for concessions on the use of the Ambulance Service, Home Nursing Service, Legal Aid and reductions in housing rents, land rates and water rates. 
and (3) There are 3 attachments designed to assist persons with hearing difficulties currently in use in Australia: 
Deaf Aid Telephone- This is a volume control attachment which assists persons with partial hearing. It is rented to the subscriber for $4 a year. 
Gliding Tone Caller- This is an attachment designed to assist persons with hearing within certain sound ranges and pitches. It calls them to the telephone by emitting a series of sounds with varying pitches. It is rented to the subscriber for $3 a year; 
Hearing Aid Coupler- This is an electronic device fitted to the ear-piece of the telephone. It emits signals which can be picked up by any modern hearing aid. It is rented to the subscriber for 30 cents a year. 
The installation cost of any of these attachments is $25. 
Persons using these attachments, who are in possession of a Pension Health Benefit card, would generally be granted a one-third reduction of the rental of their telephone service. There are limits to the resources available for social services and the Government is directing assistance to those in greatest need. Nevertheless the honourable member's suggestion will be given consideration at the appropriate time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)Yes 
My Department has received from the World Health Organisation a draft document entitled 'Environmental Health Criteria for Tetrachlorodibenzodioxin (TCDD)'. While the document contains references to conflicting reports concerning possible association of the substance with alleged still-births and congenital malformations in Vietnam, it does not contain any confirmed report of deaths or defective births from environmental exposure to the chemical. It should be pointed out that TCDD is not used as such in weedicides nor is it used as such commercially. TCDD occurs as a contaminant in 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, a chemical used in the production of 2,4,5-T. The National Health and Medical Research Council at its Eightieth Session in April 1975 recommended that 2,4,5-T containing more than 0.1 mg/kg of TCDD should not be permitted for use as a herbicide in Australia. Analyses since then have shown that these levels are not being exceeded either in preparations containing 2,4,5-T or in the raw substance. 
It was suggested in April 1977 that the occurrence of clusters' of neural tube defects in the South Taranaki, Northland and Waikato areas in New Zealand were related to the use of 2,4,5-T. This was investigated by the New Zealand Department of Health in consultation with experts in genetics, pathology, pharmacology and toxicology. It was concluded that there was no evidence to implicate 2,4,5-T as a causal factor in human birth defects. The report on this matter was examined by my Department. 
The following companies in Australia manufacture 2,4-D: 
Chemical Industries, Kwinana, Western Australia. 
Nufarm Chemical Pty Ltd, Laverton, Victoria. 
Union Carbide Australia Limited, Sydney, NSW. 2,4,5-T is manufactured by Chemical Industries, Kwinana, Western Australia. 
The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has in the past investigated the use of the two herbicides to control weeds of crops and pastures. However, the Organisation has not studied their relationship with human health. The National Health and Medical Research Council which is an advisory body to the Commonwealth and States undertakes a continuing review of pesticides, from a human health point of view, in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has identified 108 positions of Assistant and Hospital Assistant located in the Northern Territory in which the occupants are estimated to spend at least 10 per cent of their time dealing with clients in a language other than English. These positions are occupied by Aboriginals who deal with clients in their own vernacular in the conduct of their normal duties. In addition, there is one position of Clerical Assistant, Grade 6, Welfare Officer, at Alice Springs Hospital in which at least 10 per cent of the occupant's time is spent dealing with clients in a language other than English. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) At the time of his resignation from the Public Service,  Mr Moyes  held a relatively junior position which was designated as 'Inspector'. 

 Mr Moyes tendered his resignation on 7 September 1953, with a request that it take effect from the close of business on 20 November 1 953. 
No. This was neither required nor appropriate in the circumstances. 
The Department acquired its first punch card equipment from International Business Machines Limited under a contract entered into approximately one year prior to the resignation, at a time when  Mr Moyes  was overseas in pursuance of a post-graduate scholarship. Further orders were placed for additions to this equipment at various times. The first IBM computers were ordered for the Department in 1967 after public tenders had been called and examined by an independent purchasing authority. Additions to the IBM computer equipment were acquired at various times between 1967 and 1974. Between 1974 and 1977 the depanment acquired computer equipment to the value of $6.7m by public tender from three other suppliers- NCR, Honeywell and Memorex. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The costs quoted for fitting and supply of commercial hearing aids are approximately correct. 
Benefits for hearing aids are not available from Standard Medibank or from the basic medical and hospital benefits tables provided by private health insurance funds. 
However, there are several funds that offer supplementary benefits towards the cost of hearing aids. 
The position is that the health insurance legislation deals primarily with the operation by funds of the basic (standard) medical and hospital benefits tables. It makes no specific provision for the operation of supplementary benefits tables. 
For this reason the Government has maintained the policy in relation to supplementary benefits of largely allowing private funds to determine for themselves the nature and extent of supplementary benefits they may wish to offer, and the terms and conditions applicable to the payment of those benefits. The Government's role in respect of supplementary benefits is largely one of approving the benefits and relevant contribution rates in the context of financial viability of the table. 
) There is no assistance available. 
Aboriginal Affairs: Arrangements with the States  (Question No. 90S) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) There is no maximum sum set under the Child Care Act 1 972 for equipment grants. The Act provides for the approval of the individual items of equipment a sponsoring organisation proposes to purchase, and the determination of an appropriate level of grant not in excess of the cost of the equipment which it is proposed to purchase. 
See(l). 
The level of funds provided has been sufficient to enable sponsoring organisations to purchase sufficient equipment to meet State licensing requirements for child care centres. The objective of this grant is not to totally equip a centre but to enable a centre to commence operation with a suitable amount of equipment. 
No information has been received which indicates that the standard of equipment installed at new centres has been reduced because of the current level of funding available. 
A review of the procedures relating to equipment grants is being undertaken by the Office of Child Care. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
My department has recently been giving preliminary consideration to the need to provide, in the long term, for additional Commonwealth rehabilitation services within the metropolitan area of Melbourne including, in particular, the western regions of the city. It is stressed, however, that these investigations are at a very early stage of development 
3 ) Any current or future planning for the further development of Commonwealth rehabilitation services and facilities on a regional basis would have regard to the existence of all health, education and welfare services and facilities within the region. The CRS has long recognised the advantages to its handicapped clients of establishing close working relationships between the staffs of its rehabilitation facilities and those of major hospitals in the region, as well as, for example, community health centres, special schools, local governmental and voluntary agencies for the handicapped, etc. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department does not compile statistics on a basis which would enable an answer to be provided to the honourable member's question. To undertake a special exercise for this purpose would require a major resource allocation which, having in mind the current commitments of my Department, I am not in a position to authorise. 
However, if there are some particular drug prices in which the honourable member is interested, I would be pleased to provide whatever information is reasonably available. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following table outlines statistics of fringe benefit eligibility for age and invalid pensioners aged 65 to 69 years as at 26 December 1977. Corresponding information in respect of widow pensioners is not available. As at 26 December 1977 there were 3, 100 widows aged 65 to 69 years, of whom an estimated 3,000 were eligible for fringe benefits. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937 I present a report on work done under that Act during 1 976. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay might recall that the Prime Minister announced in his election speech last year that there would be an extension of the provisions of the domiciliary nursing care benefit to people below 65 years of age- indeed, to those 16 years and over- who were properly approved by a medical practitioner to be eligible for the equivalent of nursing attention. The Government is anxious to try to assist those people who wish to care for members of their families or relatives or friends in their own home environment. Presently the benefit applies to patients who are 65 years and over. 
Considerable relaxation has taken place recently in regard to the number of visits nursing sisters should make provided that the medical practitioner, the sisters concerned and the Department of Health are satisfied that the person caring for the ill person is capable of providing adequate care. I anticipate that in the course of the Budget deliberations the Government will be considering the question of reducing the age limit to 16 years and looking at the level of benefit that has been applying on a daily basis since 1972. 
by leave- Over recent years, the rapidly rising costs of health care have been a cause of deep concern in a number of Western nations. Australia is now no exception. In Australia, the great health cost explosion began during the term of the Labor Government. It was a cost explosion directly associated with a large transfer of health expenditure from the private to the government sector. The figures demonstrate this situation very clearly: In 1971-72 the Commonwealth Government met 30.2 per cent of all health expenditure and the private sector 43.1 per cent. Only four years later in 1975-76- the last year of the Labor Government- the Commonwealth was meeting 52.0 per cent and the private sector 22.6 per cent of health spending. In the five-year period 1971-72 to 1976-77 health costs exploded from $2,232m to $6,254m. The costs of health cafe per head in Australia have risen from $104 in 1966-67 to $447 in 1976-77- that is, by more than four times in 10 years. 
Despite this very rapidly rising financial burden on the community, there is no evidence available to show a decline in illness. For this financial year, 1977-78, over 10 per cent of all Commonwealth Government spending is being directed to health. As the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development report of July 1977 commented: 
It would seem that Governments are being increasingly faced with the need to establish an 'economic' limit to the growth of public health expenditure. 
That applies with just as great a force to Australia as it does to other similar nations. 
When the Fraser Government was elected to office in December 1975, it was abundantly clear that one of the challenges of management of the economy in difficult conditions was to arrest the rapidly spiralling costs of health care. While Medibank had achieved universal insurance, it had done so at high cost to the community. The original Medibank was completely open-ended and it encouraged both over-use and abuse. It was just as clear to the Government that unless action was taken to arrest the rate of health costs inflation, it would crowd out opportunities for income tax reductions and government spending on other essential programs to give relief to the needy sections of the community. 
This Government therefore established the Medibank Review Committee in January 1976 to examine the health insurance scheme. As a result of that review, significant modifications were made to Medibank from 1 October 1976. Those changes have already resulted in a decline in the rate of acceleration in health costs. Last financial year, the most recent for which full figures are available, the rate of growth was held down to 19.7 per cent. 

<graphic href="109131197805243_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

Expressed as a percentage of the gross domestic product, health spending in each of those years totalled: 1973-74, 5.9 per cent; 1974-75, 6.8 per cent; 1975-76, 7.4 per cent; and 1976-77, 7.7 per cent. It is even more important to note that the percentage increases over the preceding year in the proportion of the gross domestic product taken by health costs was: 1973-74, minus 0.8 per cent; 1974-75, plus 15.4 per cent; 1975-76, plus 8. 1 per cent; and 1 976-77, plus 3.9 per cent. 
The same picture, of continuing increases followed by a slowing up after the October 1976 changes, is revealed by the figures for medical services per person covered by health insurance and pensioner medical service arrangements during the same period: 1973-74, 4.7 medical services per person, a fall of 4. 1 per cent over the previous year; 1974-75, 5.3 medical services per person, a rise of 13.6 per cent; 1 975-76, 5.9 medical services per person, a rise of 11.0 per cent; and 1976-77, 5.6 medical services per person, a fall of 5.6 per cent. This fall of 5.6 per cent in medical services last financial year was both substantial and welcome. But the Government is not satisfied that this drop in the explosion of health care costs has been sufficient. The rate of growth of health costs is well above the general rate of inflation. It is still far from acceptable. Since the October 1976 changes, the Government has closely monitored the health insurance system and health costs generally within the information available. Some of the results have been encouraging. 
In the field of pathology, for example, alarming increases occurred with the original Medibank. The Government established a pathology working party, under the chairmanship of  Dr Sidney  Sax, in association with the colleges, the medical profession and with State representation, and the Government has taken action on its recommendations. The cost of pathology services doubled from the six month period ended June 1975 to the six month period ended June 1976. However, since the changes in pathology arrangements, preliminary information indicates an appreciable decline in the quarterly cost of pathology. For instance, it is estimated that the gross benefits payout by Medibank for pathology decreased by 29 per cent from the June 1977 quarter to the March 1978 quarter. High-cost medical and diagnostic technology is another area now under investigation by a further committee under the chairmanship of  Dr Sidney  Sax and a report and recommendations are expected shortly. 
The struggle against rising costs has been successful in other areas. Increases in medical fees over the last two years have moderated to levels below the inflation rate. This is a singular achievement compared to the increases while the Australian Labor Party was in government. With the full co-operation of the Australian Medical Association, the Government has also established medical services committees of inquiry in each State, to review cases where excessive services have been rendered by medical practitioners. As well, the Government has stepped up its campaign to identify cases of fraud against Medibank. Penalties for fraud have been increased from a $500 fine or six months imprisonment to a $10,000 fine or imprisonment for five years and the offences have been made indictable. Fifty-two cases are now under investigation, including 32 doctors; 24 are now under prosecution, including 1 1 doctors; and 69 have been prosecuted, including 8 doctors. The Government has also asked the medical profession to implement professional standards review. 
In addition, new hospital agreements have been made with State governments, providing for sound budgeting practice aimed at reducing the great increase in hospital costs. Further discussions with the States are under way to achieve accreditation of pathology and of hospitals in the interests of cost restraint. Despite this progress, it was apparent that further action would be necessary to achieve improved health cost levels. Last year, therefore, I asked the Hospitals and Health Services Commission to undertake a thorough review of the health care cost question. The Commission produced a paper which was tabled in the House on 15 March 1978. This paper laid the foundation for debate and discussion within the Parliament and throughout the country. 
The Government has considered a large number of options available to it to generate the necessary sense of community responsibility in both the provision and the usage of health services. There are no easy answers available. There is no simple panacea for a most complex set of problems. However, I must relate the basic objectives of the Government's health policy, and they are as follows: To promote and protect the health of all people; to ensure that all people, regardless of their means, have access to high quality health care; to provide special protection to the pensioners and low income groups, with those on higher incomes insuring themselves to help pay their health care expenses; to promote preventive health care; to obtain the best value for the taxpayers' dollars spent on health care; and to minimise abuse and overuse of services. 
It is true to say that Australia enjoys one of the best and most accessible health services and health care delivery systems in the world. But there is room for improvement. Special disabilities still affect people in remote areas, Aboriginal communities, ethnic communities, and in developing urban areas. Policies have already been announced to assist in the payment of at least part of travel and accommodation costs of patients forced to travel beyond 200 kilometres in order to obtain specialist medical attention. Special programs are also being developed to improve access to medical services acceptable to Aboriginal people. The national trachoma program is further evidence of the Government's determination to improve the health of Aboriginal communities. Proposed interpreter services, located in health facilities throughout Australia, demonstrate the Government's awareness of the special problems of the ethnic communities in health care. 
As for health costs containment, restraint for its own sake does not dominate our thinking, but there is no escaping the fact that unless we control rapidly rising costs, they will crowd out opportunities for essential spending in other areas of government responsibility. People pay for health costs by one means or another, whether it be by income taxation, levies and charges, health insurance premiums, direct patient payments, or a combination of these means. We cannot escape the bill. There is no such thing as free health care. Those who receive care for no direct cost are being paid for by other people by one means or another. I emphasise this because, while universal health insurance cover provides security and access to health services, it does tend to weaken the perception of both the providers and the users of the real costs of those services. 
Government subsidy to reduce health costs can blind us all to the costs of those services. Unless the universal health insurance system has inbuilt incentives designed to create cost consciousness, commonsense suggests- and experience shows- that unnecessary costs will be generated. The Government's first responsibility is to assist those who cannot help themselves. It should not be directed to assisting those who have sufficient resources to help themselves. Large-scale acrosstheboard Government subsidy is wasteful of resources and reduces the Government's capacity to assist the needy sections of the community. 
The changes I am announcing under the Government's health cost control program are, therefore, designed to: Encourage responsible use of one of the best health services in the world; ensure that overuse and abuse are reduced to a minimum; obtain the best value for taxpayers' dollars spent on health care; and promote competition and innovation in health insurance. I will now outline the changes the Government has decided will be made forthwith in the health insurance and associated areas. As I have indicated, the changes which were made in health insurance arrangements on 1 October 1976 have achieved some slowing-down in the very high rate of growth in usage of health services and in increases in health care costs. The Government has carefully reviewed information available to it, both from the process of monitoring the impact of those changes on health costs and usage and as a result of the general review of health insurance which I requested in October of last year. As a result, the Government has now approved substantial changes affecting medical insurance. However, it has also decided that in view of the important contribution of hospital costs to the total problems, actions will be taken immediately to reduce unnecessary hospital outlays. The Government will continue to monitor hospital costs. 
To enable this monitoring to proceed in a detailed manner, the Government has further decided that more comprehensive information concerning some aspects of the operation and costs of the hospital and medical insurance system, where better information is necessary, should be made available to it. Accordingly the Government has decided to seek the authority to obtain and analyse information from and about the health insurance system in greater depth. As well, a number of specific pilot surveys covering the usage and cost of health services in individual areas will be undertaken. This action, together with a basic review now under way of health data available for policy evaluation, will provide the Government with a more accurate information base which is an important requirement of a continuing review. 
Until an improved data base becomes available, the Government believes that it would be premature to proceed further with the consideration of major adjustments to the health insurance system. The Government believes this to be the most responsible approach to the objective of constraining the rising costs of health care to the taxpayer and to the community generally. I turn now to the changes the Government proposes to make at this time. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
 The Australian Bureau of Statistics has provided the following table, which shows the amounts spent on pre-school and child care programs that can be identified from State Government Public Accounts; they should be regarded as approximate and may not be fully comparable between the States. State outlays include grants to local authorities made from funds provided by the Commonwealth under its Preschools and Child Care Program. Direct payments from the Commonwealth Government to local government authorities, which do not pass through State Government accounts, are not included. 
The savings that were identified in my statement yesterday related to the savings on the payments of benefits to the extent of $24m by widening the gap from your 85 per cent to our 75 per cent. Let us have no illusions; the Australian Labor Party, when it was in government, introduced the principle that patients should receive 85 per cent of the scheduled fee. 
-That is true. You introduced it and you supported the gap principle. The gap has existed - 
The honourable member for Dundas has brought to my attention a matter that is of grave concern to him and to many other people in respect of the services that should be available to Aboriginal people. Of course, many Aborigines are pensioners and hold pensioner health benefit cards. They are dependent upon such pension entitlements. It is certainly not proposed to abolish bulk billing in respect of those people. The present system of 'pay doctor' cheques will apply to Aboriginal people on low incomes when visiting a doctor - 

 - Mr Speaker, would you try to restrain the honourable member? 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) $28.4m, comprising $8.6m for capital expenditure and $ 19.8m for recurrent expenditure. Of these amounts the Commonwealth provided $7. 7m and $ 14.7m respectively. 
339,880. 
Although no surveys have been undertaken on the dental health of children after they have ceased to be under the care of the ASDS, the National Dental Survey which is now being planned would provide this information. Surveys which are currently being finalised deal with the dental health of children who were examined in the State and Territorial School Dental Services in 1977. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) (a) and (b) A departmental officer interviewed in the program referred to by the honourable member stated that departmental staffing numbers were sufficient; the capacity to handle all payments was not mentioned. The officer agreed that a small number of people applying for unemployment benefits had experienced some delay because of exceptional circumstances, including a seasonal load, the holiday period and the introduction of payment of benefits in arrears. 
The officer forecast that the delay would be under control within two or three weeks from the date of the program and the delays mentioned were eliminated by 1 5 February 1978. 
(a) The Department's approved ceiling for 30 June 1978 is 10,000. The existence of staff ceilings requires the Department to concentrate on essential work and priority is given to income security functions. Generally the Department is meeting its commitments within the constraints imposed by financial and staff restrictions. 
(b) The working of overtime is necessary to meet peak workloads and overcome any arrears that may arise. Such overtime is invariably undertaken by staff volunteering to work. Within the Public Service, staff beyond the salary level of Clerk Class 8 ($16,832-17,51 1) are not paid for working overtime. 
There exist, in the Department, procedures providing for the immediate issue of a cheque to those people for whom entitlement exists and to whom payment is overdue. Persons concerned are advised of these procedures when the Department becomes aware that a need for immediate assistance to relieve personal hardship exists. 
Notification usually takes the form of advising the beneficiary that a cheque will be prepared that day. The beneficiary is asked to call at a particular time to collect the cheque. If the person wishes the cheque to be posted to him, this is done. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The estimated number of Social Security pensioners who were holders of pensioner health benefit cards at the dates requested were: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) The answer to this question is not known; the most common group of persons whose unemployment benefits are cancelled have returned to work and there is no way of identifying the cases in which the Department of Social Security would have been advised of the return to work if the visit had not been made. 
and (3) This information is not available. 
The Government has not arbitrarily withheld benefit payments. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) It is not possible to answer this question from statistics available to the Department of Social Security as the most frequent cases in which benefit payments are terminated are those in which it is found that the claimant has returned to work. It is not known which of these cases would have been terminated without visits from inspectors. 
In a small proportion of cases, payment of benefit is cancelled because the claimant cannot be located after two or more visits to the address he has given and he fails to comply with a written request that he contact the Department of Social Security, or for similar reasons. In a small proportion of such cases, the claimant subsequently contacts the department and is able to show that he was eligible to receive the benefit that was being paid to him, in which event payments are resumed. 
No. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Australian Capital Territory Consultative Committee on Social Welfare (ACTCCSW) and the Northern Territory Consultative Committee on Social Welfare (NTCCSW) each have a member of the respective Legislative Assemblies on their committee. 

 Mr Paul Whalan, M.L.A. is a member of the ACTCCSW and  Mr Ian  Tuxworth, M.L.A. is a member of the NTCCSW. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) Statistics sought by the honourable members are not maintained. The only category of social security benefit for which separate statistics are maintained in respect of refugees is special benefit, and then only in respect of South Vietnamese, Cambodian or Timorese children for whom special benefits are being paid. 
At 3 1 December 1977 there were 44 South Vietnamese or Cambodian children and 62 Timorese children for whom payments of special benefit were being made. It is not possible to identify how many of these children were granted permanent residence in Australia since 1 July 1977. 
There were at 3 1 December 1977, 577 migrants in hostels or accommodation centres in receipt of special benefit, but the proportion of that number who were of South East Asian origin, or could be classified as refugees, is not known. 
In addition to special benefit, permanent migrants with children become entitled to family allowances from the pay day after their arrival. 
-The answer to the first part of the question is no. Of course certain honourable members on the other side of the House would try to terrify some disadvantaged people into believing that with the abolition of bulk billing they will have to have cash in their - 
What a nit-picking exercise the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has engaged in.  His  unfounded allegations about the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  standing over me, as Minister for Health, and about my not supporting a statement he made, are a lot of rubbish. The honourable member has forecast that I will engage in some big publicity campaign, with my photograph in the newspaper and so on, to sell what the Government has done. What a lot of rubbish. There is much in the speech that I feel does not deserve a response. I remind the House once again- because I believe the Opposition needs to be reminded of its own sins as much as possible to try to reform it and to help it in the future- that the great health cost explosion began in the time of the Australian Labor Party Government. Let nobody have any doubt about that. 
It is nothing short of humbug for the Opposition to come into the Parliament time and time again complaining and weeping about the health cost problem which we have inherited, which we are trying to arrest, and which the public is at present bearing. It was the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party which caused the fundamental problems to the Australian economy, which generated unemployment, which let loose the worst inflation in history, and which has hurt the poor and the needy more than any other section in the Australian community. More than any other single issue it was the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party that caused the health cost crisis. The Labor Party traded on falsehoods, it gave people false hopes, it lifted the expectations of the people and it cheated the Australian electorate and, indeed, its own supporters. It was the Labor Party that generated high cost levels through its crazy wage policy and economic mismanagement. One of the great falsehoods that the Labor Party generated was that it would provide a free health care system through what it called Medibank. Even the name chosen tended to give the impression that the Labor Party had created some benevolent institution, such as a bank, which would supply the money which was needed to pay the bills not only of the poor or the chronically ill but also of the rich. What an incredible misconception. It is rather extraordinary that this is a motion which was moved by the honourable member for Prospect and yet only six members of the Opposition were in the House while he was speaking. That is how interested honourable members opposite are in their own motion. Their system was an incredible misconception. The Labor Party led itself to believe that there was no limit to the money it could throw about to all and sundry. It threw money about like chicken feed. Needless to say the strongest and the fittest got the most out of the benefits. Who benefited most from the Opposition's health scheme in money terms? It was the doctors and the health professionals. During the term of the Labor Party doctors fees rose by over 56.6 per cent and their incomes increased at a rate far greater than the rise in average weekly earnings. To that I say: Brilliant. What the Labor Party did was to stuff doctors' mouths with gold while the doctors kicked it in the teeth. That is how brilliant honourable members opposite were. So much for their so-called free health servicethat had a capacity to gorge the social dollars in this country. 
The Labor Government's approach to paying for health care and hospital costs was typical of its general approach to the economy, which was the money-no-object philosophy. When the Opposition emptied the well by its various costly schemes it took all sorts of drastic, frantic measures in order to try to recover its position. It tried to recover by printing money, by increasing the tax take and finally by borrowing money through dubious characters from Middle Eastern sources. We all remember the debacle. How can honourable members opposite hold themselves up as the great fount of wisdom? They proved that they had no wisdom whatsoever. The Labor Party's health insurance scheme was comprehensive. It covered all and sundry, regardless of means. Let us see how the bill soared as a result of its efforts. In 1971-72 the Commonwealth met 30.2 per cent of all health expenditure. The private sector met 43. 1 per cent. Yet only four years later, in the last year in office of the Labor Government the taxpayers, through the Commonwealth revenue pool, was meeting 52 per cent of health spending and the private sector was meeting 22.6 per cent. 
-That is assisting those who can afford to help themselves by meeting bills that they should be meeting and by misdirecting resources to other than the needy sections of the community. In the five years from 1971-72 to 1976-77 health costs exploded from $2,232m to $6,254m. 
Yes, but at a much slower rate of acceleration than they did during the Labor Government's term of office. During that time despite very rapidly rising financial burdens of the community, no real evidence was available to indicate that there was a decline in illness. The effect of the changes on the average person in New South Wales, to which the honourable member for Prospect has addressed himself, will on average result in the payment of an additional 90c per consultation. Sixty-two per cent of all services rendered are general practitioner consultations. The cost in Western Australia will be 80c; in South Australia 80c; in Queensland 80c; and in Victoria and Tasmania 85 c. That is additional out-of-pocket expenses per consultation. Whether the gap is charged is a matter for the doctor and the patient to determine. 
As a practitioner of the past the honourable member for Prospect would know about doctors generally. I have a much better impression of the sense of humanity of the people of his profession than he apparently has. I like to think with some generosity towards a very important profession in the Australian community. It was the honourable member for Prospect and his Government- when the Opposition was in Government- that quite clearly destroyed a lot of the goodwill that was available to the Australian community from the medical profession. 
When the Opposition was in government it destroyed millions and millions of dollars worth of honorary service given through our hospital system. We will never turn the clock back. It destroyed goodwill- professional goodwill. If the Government can do anything to restore that goodwill for the medical profession to the Australian community, we will endeavour to do so. The honourable member is quite deliberately trying to terrify people in the community by making them believe that they must have cash in the pocket before they go to the doctor. 
That is not true in every case. I hope that where it is happening the doctors will refrain from doing it. Once bulk billing is abolished, except for pensioners and their dependants who are covered by health benefit cards, other people will be able to send doctors' accounts either to Medibank or their private health insurance fund. They will receive a 'pay doctor' cheque which in normal circumstances the patient will hand to the doctor. It is then a matter for the doctor to decide whether the person can afford to meet the gap or he will simply accept the 'pay doctor' cheque as payment in full for the service that he has rendered. I repeat that doctors generally for many years have judged each case according to the circumstances of the individual. I hope that the medical profession will continue to show the same sort of compassion and consideration for disadvantaged individuals. Bulk billing of course will still apply to 1.68 million people- age, invalid and widows' pensioners and their dependants; but it will not apply to other people and the processes that I have mentioned will apply in other cases. 
No, indeed not. 
-We have decided that bulk billing is to be abolished. 
We have not altered the principle of the gap; that is, the difference between the amount payable and the benefit received. The Australian Labor Party when it was in government of course endorsed that principle. It supported a benefit level at 85 per cent and it endorsed the gap principle. So it is idle for the Opposition to say that it does not approve of or agree with the principle. What we have done is widen the gap from $5 to $10- the gap having been set at $5 in 1969, which was nine years ago. If one does calculations one will find that in real terms the adjustment is fair and equitable. We have gone further than the Labor Party would have ever thought to have gone; that is, to provide a subsidy to those people in the lower income groups who wish to take out hospital insurance to cover themselves for doctor of choice in hospitals and we have kept hospital insurance down to levels which these people can afford to pay in order to exercise that choice. We have certainly ended the abuses and excesses that came about because of the open ended nature of the scheme the previous Government introduced. The cost of Labor Medibank did most to harm the sick and the poor and it would have done so even more had we left it in operation. 
This Government is restoring the balance that Labor destroyed. People in need are either exempt from any cost or they have access to Medibank standard for the payment of a levy which they pay according to their means. So it is hypocritical to talk about the Government isolating the sick and the poor. The very structure of the present health insurance arrangement is designed to assist and to enable those in the lower income group to pay according to their means. If their means are very low they do not pay at all. Labor allowed the rip-off from Medibank. Labor's inflation damaged mostly the very people it claimed to represent- the sick and the poor. By contrast, the Government has righted many of the inequities of Medibank and will continue to make reviews as necessary. We have indexed social security pensions and we have introduced family allowances. We have more than halved inflation- inflation which hurts the poorer sections of the community more than the richer sections of it. 
I shall put some questions to the Opposition which it might answer in due course. What does the Opposition want? Does it want reductions in medical contribution rates denied to hundreds of thousands of ordinary people? Does it want to see the opportunity provided to the health insurance funds to devise systems that are acceptable to the community? Front end deductibles in themselves may not be the option that the health insurance funds will take. Other options could well take the form of providing rebates or credits for contributors if their benefits do not exceed those for a specified number of services. They could result in the deletion of certain items or in a form of lower contribution rates based on contributors following a particular lifestyle. One fund in particular is apparently interested in pursuing that line. We are not making such proposals compulsory but we have decided to provide some flexibility to the health insurance industry to come up with schemes that give some encouragement to people to care for themselves. Does the Opposition want to go back to the days of unchecked cost explosion of which the greatest beneficiaries were the well-off and the medical profession? Does it want to go back to the previous situation? I really think this whole exercise has been a phoney, nit picking exercise by the honourable member for Prospect and the Opposition. The changes that the Government has made I think have disappointed the Opposition. The honourable member for Prospect was making all sorts of predictions that the Government was about to embark upon a lot of draconian measures. 
Yes, spreading panic in the community. I dare say his speech was prepared a week before the event. 
The honourable member says that I was leaking stories to the Press. This is untrue. It is a lie. That is a nonsense. I think the honourable member for Prospect has been disappointed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order!  The Minister's time has expired. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) November 1974-by $1 a week, i.e., from $4 a week to $5 a week; 
November 1975- by 50c a week, i.e., from $7 a week to $7.50 a week; 
October 1 969 by $2 a week in respect of a child under 6 or an invalid child requiring full-time care, i.e., from $4 a week to $6 a week. 
October 1972. 
October 1973. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is not intended to release the report. 
See (3). 
The reason for not releasing the report is that it is an internal working document. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have asked my Department to undertake an appraisal of possible alternatives to the LD 50 test. I recognise the advantages of a test that will not involve the use of living animals, as does my Department, industry and scientific research workers, in terms of humane treatment, costs and convenience. A number of tests that do not involve living animals are currently under review within my Department. 
Tests of acute toxicity such as the LD 50 in animals afford information which forms the basis of safety directions to be observed in the manufacture, distribution and use of chemicals; this information is also essential to devise first aid instructions should the chemical be ingested or other unintentional exposure such as inhalation, contact with the skin, or contact with the eyes occur. The LD 50 test can only be replaced when a scientifically valid alternative procedure is available. As part of the appraisal my Department will be looking at the possibility of removing certain requirements for LD SO tests if this should be possible and if this can be done without jeopardising the safety of consumers through lack of essential information. Inevitably the development of new methods and their evaluation take time and in light of these difficulties I do not expect that any appraisal by my Department will be available for at least one year. 
(a) Yes. However although theirs are the largest, the National Research Council and the Medical Research Council are not the only bodies that provide funds. 
A feasibility study conducted in 1 966-67 verified that there was widespread support for the Council's establishment among the scientific community. 
The Council includes representatives of all the bodies making significant financial contributions to it, all Government Departments using animals, the Association of Canadian Medical Colleges, the Association of Canadian Veterinary Faculties, the Association of Canadian Universities and Colleges. 
Each year, commencing in 1972, the Council has undertaken assessments of a number of laboratories in Universities, Colleges and Government Departments including those in industry. In each year's selection of laboratories for examination, priority is given to those that the Council expects are most in need of improvement. 
Given the total number of laboratories, about four years would normally lapse between assessments of a particular laboratory. 
The Canadian Federation of Humane Societies is invited to, and does, provide a representative on each assessment panel. 
Scientific papers in the journals of all organisations supported by government grants are required to state that experiments involving animals complied with the Canadian Council on Animal Care guidelines. Of all the journals likely to carry papers relating to animals there are only two (veterinary) journals not subject to this requirement but these have voluntarily accepted and consistently applied it. 
In all cases where the Council has recommended improvements in facilities and/or practices, the laboratory concerned has made changes, either fully or largely adopting the Council's recommendations. The Executive Director of the Council has reported that resistance to Council guidance has been rare and in fact there have been several instances of institutions approaching the Council for advice to identify and remove shortcomings. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has been aware of the need for adequate controls in matters relating to experiments on animals for many years. In 1969 the Council approved a code of practice for the humane conduct of experiments involving animals. The code has been widely circulated to universities, research institutes, hospitals and individuals concerned with the care of laboratory animals. 
The Council recently undertook to revise the code of practice and established a special working party to prepare a guide for research workers engaged in the use of animals for experimental purposes. It aims to: 
Emphasise the responsibilities associated with this type of experimentation; 
Promote an attitude which will encourage the efficient and considerate treatment of the experimental animal so that any degree of stress or discomfort is acceptable by community standards; 
) Ensure that the research is not prejudiced by inefficient treatment and lack of care of the animal; and 
Provide references to more detailed information. 
The Code will also include a bibliography and an appendix of relevant legislation relating to animal experimentation. 
The title of the revised code, the printing of which is imminent, is 'Code of Practice for the Use of Animals in Research in Australia' and supplies are expected to be available later this year. 
The Council has already approved guidelines for experiments on animals as set out in the Statement on Animal Experimentation. Copies of this statement are now included in the application kits for the various NH &amp; MRC awards. Applicants for project grants are required to certify that their experiments will be carried out in accordance with the principles outlined in the Statement. 
The revised Code of Practice is based on the Statement and is designed as an informative guide for the research workers engaged in the use of animals for experimental purposes. 
While the registration of laboratories in Australia is a matter for individual States the recommendations of Council concerning the desired standards can be expected to be generally observed. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In each Australian State the storage and disposal of medical and industrial waste is controlled under the Radioactive Substances Act and Regulations (or their equivalent) of the State. In the Australian Capital Territory control of storage and disposal of radioactive waste is the responsibility of the Capital Territory Health Commission and in the Northern Territory it is the responsibility of the Department of Health. Appropriate legislation for the ACT is in preparation. In the Northern Territory the Radioactive Safety Control Bill, which provides for  controls  over storage and disposal of radioactive waste, has been introduced into the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Actual requirements of local statutory authorities for storage and disposal of the various kinds of radioactive waste will vary according to local conditions. 
Discussions have been held by the National Health and Medical Research Council on this matter and the Council recommended: 
A central depository be established in Australia for the storage of hazardous long-lived radioactive waste materials, other than those arising in the generation of nuclear power; 
This depository be established and maintained by a central authority; and 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission (AAEC) and the Australian Radiation Laboratory (ARL) being competent authorities, consult to determine the type of depository and its site. 
Discussions between AAEC and ARC on the disposal of medical and industrial wastes have taken place but no recommendations or decisions have been made. 
Tribunals Associated with Department of Productivity  (Question No. 726) 
The answer to the first part of the question is an emphatic no. It is the Commonwealth Government's intention that nursing home-type patients who have been admitted to public hospitals but who would otherwise be in nursing homes will be subject to the same benefit and conditions as geriatric patients who are presently in nursing homes. In other words, they will be eligible for the Commonwealth benefit and the health insurance fund benefit as nursing home patients and will contribute a portion of their pension towards their board and lodging in exactly the same way as pensioner patients in nursing homes. In view of the deliberate distortions being promoted by the Opposition I want to emphasise that there is a clear distinction between nursing home-type patients and pensioner patients requiring medical and hospital attention. There is a clear distinction between them. Such pensioners will be treated as hospital patients and will be entitled to the hospital benefit but they will not be required to make a patient contribution towards their board and lodging as are patients in nursing homes. 
Pensioner patients who are admitted to hospital with a broken hip or with any injury or illness that could lead to long hospitalisation will be regarded as hospital patients; they will not be regarded as nursing home patients. So there is quite a clear distinction. The Government feels that there is not much justice in a system that provides benefits for and expects contributions from nursing home type patients who are in hospitals. Of course both the Commonwealth and the State governments have existing facilities and resources in many hospitals to accommodate nursing home type patients. 
So there is no justification for treating nursing home type patients in nursing homes one way and nursing home type patients in hospitals another way. Let it be clearly understood that there is quite a distinction between the two types of patients. Pensioner patients who are in hospital because of illness will be treated as hospital patients and will be entitled to receive benefits; they will not have to make a patient contribution towards their board and lodging. 
I should like also like to make it quite clear that the Opposition 's attempt to confuse the issue has not been to its credit. In fact it has caused a great deal of unhappiness for a lot of people. They have not been clear on the subject because of those statements. I might add that when the Australian Labor Party was in Government, it reduced the amount that a patient could keep from his pension from approximately $7 a day to $4. Since we came to office, we have progressively increased that amount from $4 to $7. Now we have indexed that amount to 12.5 per cent of the pension, so that each time there is a pension rise pensioners will get a correspondingly increased amount that they can retain for their own personal spending. So, far from doing the wrong thing by the pensioners, the Government has done the right thing by the pensioners. 
The Government has given serious and sensitive consideration to the question of paying benefits for abortions. It depends on the end of the spectrum at which one stands how one judges the decision that has been taken by the Government on this issue because there are two very clear schools of thought in the community on the issue of abortion. No doubt the honourable member has had thousands of letters, as I have, from people who are concerned that benefits are being paid for abortions from Medibank and from health insurance funds. I think I need to inform the House that the Government has recognised that to exclude from the schedule of benefits these gynaecological procedures, which would have the effect of denying benefits to those persons who require the procedures on proper medical grounds, could cause very serious hardship. 
As for the legality of these procedures, a complex issue arises because of the differing laws on abortion as between the States. It is the States' prerogative to ensure that doctors undertake their procedures according to the law of the States. Moreover, the honourable member would appreciate no doubt the great difficultiesindeed the questions of privacy- that would be involved if health insurance funds and Medibank itself had to determine what procedures were in fact carried out according to the laws of any State, and I would not like to see either my Department or the Health Insurance Commission placed in that position. 
Having said that, let me now say that the Government has completed its consideration and has decided to amend the National Health Act to enable health insurance funds to apply for permission to delete certain items for benefit purposes, including gynaecological procedures, and subject to certain conditions that will be established after discussions with the funds it is anticipated that permission will be granted to a health insurance fund, should it make an application, to delete an item for the payment of benefits. We would insist that that particular fund, or any fund that made such an application, would give adequate public notice to the contributors concerned so that those contributors to the fund would be aware that certain items were not going to attract benefits from that specific fund. Beyond that the Government has decided to take the matter no further. 
I have already had a letter from one health insurance fund which has indicated that it intends to make an application as soon as the legislation becomes law, and it feels that it has been very fair to the people whom it represents. 
I had somewhere in my briefing notes some information relating to at least some of the matters to which the honourable gentleman has referred. However in the time available I am not able to refer to them. I should like to give an assurance to the honourable member that I have had discussions with my Department about the very serious problems to which he alluded in his question. I have asked my Department to make sure that proper screenings are undertaken in respect of all intending migrants coming to Australia and, in particular, the refugees who are coming from Indo-China at the present time. Discussions have been going on with the Public Service Board to make sure that we have sufficient numbers of medical practitioners to carry out the screening effectively. I know that discussions have taken place between my Department and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
I cannot really offer a medical opinion about the medical technicalities in the honourable member's question. I did see the article in the Australian Medical Association's journal to which the honourable member referred. I have no doubt that the medical officers of my Department are looking very seriously at the consequences of that particular venereal disease. However, I should not like to comment further on that. As to the other more detailed aspects of the honourable member's question, I will obtain the appropriate advice from the Department and make it available to him and to other members of the House. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of an independent inquiry into the operations and capital works program of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I should like to thank the Joint Committee on Public Works very much for the expedient, instructive and helpful way it has completed its examination of the proposal for a Cocos (Keeling) Islands quarantine station. I should also like to thank the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  particularly, for the very kind compliments he paid to officers of my Department. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
(a)Yes. 
I am informed that students eligible for TEAS benefits may receive income for employment, bank interest, dividends, et cetera, up to a limit of $1,500 a year before their allowances are affected. Where income is received in excess of $ 1 , 500 a year, living allowance is reduced by $ 1 for every $2 of income in excess of $1,500. Within the limit of $1,500 students may receive up to $150 from other awards, but amounts received in excess of $150 reduce the living allowance on a dollar for dollar basis. 
This is a matter of Government policy which will be kept in mind in the continuing review of the social security system. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
136. 
$14,386. 
I am well aware of the recommendation by the National Health and Medical Research Council on the need for a repository for radioactive waste, which would include, for instance, by-products oi radioactive medical pharmaceuticals. Legislation in relation to the Australian Capital Territory is currently being drafted. I understand that action has been taken in the Northern Territory to draft legislation to make proper provision for the storage of radioactive waste in the Northern Territory. I am not aware of any approach by any Staje to make the Australian Capital Territory a durrVping ground. I will make inquiries, however, to see whether such a proposal has been made to my Department or officially to the Government. It would be rather extraordinary if any State were to expect the national capital, the Australian Capital Territory, to become a dumping ground for State radioactive waste. 
I thank the honourable member for the question. The incidence of tuberculosis in South East Asian countries is a great deal higher than in Australia. Refugees who have been admitted could be expected to reflect this situation. The refugees arriving in Darwin are all fully clinically examined and X-rays are taken. It is true that some of the Vietnamese children show high positive reactions to skin tests and this could result later in a breakdown of the disease. Details of all the refugees arriving in Darwin are sent to the State Directors of Health in the southern capitals. So a record is being kept on all the refugees as to their state of health and their risk as tuberculosis carriers. 
If refugees are shown to have a high positive reaction they are placed under treatment for a period of one year. This is the normal treatment applied to Australians who have a high positive skin reaction. The Department is well aware of the very serious problems in respect of tuberculosis and the possibility of increasing the incidence of the disease in Australia. It is taking every possible step, through increasing surveillance and the provision of adequate medical officers, to ensure that we keep this disease under control in Australia following the influx of refugees. We are very mindful of the problem but I assure the honourable member that we have the matter well and truly in hand at present. 
I thank the honourable member for his question, which I know would have been inspired by the dilemma confronting the North Richmond Community Health Centre which has a very high clientele- I think is the term used- of refugees and ethnic groups. I saw on a television program last night an example of the way in which bulk billing or assignment forms are filled out before the doctor has even seen the patient. As a matter of interest, that is one of the reasons we have abolished bulk billing. If ever I saw anything blatant it was those patients signing the assignment form before the doctor had even examined them. The doctor would then take the form and sent it off to Medibank. It only confirms my view that that procedure provides a pipeline to the mint. It confirmed my conviction that we should abolish bulk billing for all but pensioners and their dependants. I stress that bulk billing will still apply for pensioners and their dependants. 
In respect of ethnic people having difficulty in filling out forms, and so on, I am endeavouring to enter into an arrangement whereby, when the patient receives the doctor's account at the community health centre, the centre will assist the patient to fill out the form and despatch it to Medibank- it will be Medibank standard in many cases- and the cheque drawn in favor of the doctor can be sent, care of the patient, to the community health centre. Discussions with view to seeing whether this can be done are at present taking place. 
With respect to the benefit level, that has yet to be worked out with the Australian Medical Association in respect of pensioners; but in regard to the gap, I would expect that in community health centres, where doctors have chosen to serve the community, doctors would accept 75 per cent of the benefit as payment in full for their services. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The Department of Social Security employed 305 inquiry officers (also known as Field Officers) as at 1 May 1978. 
The duties of Field Officers include: verification of entitlement to benefit, assisting claimants to complete applications, advising claimants as to an appropriate benefit, investigating cases of suspected fraud. 
The honourable member would be aware that other categories of staff, for example those whose duties include determining entitlements to benefits, are also involved in examining the accuracy of information provided by pensioners and beneficiaries. 
-The answer to the honorable member's question is as follows: 
Charging practices in respect of overseas visitors admitted to recognised hospitals in the States are determined by the State Hospital Authorities. On the assumption that the visitor is not covered by Australian private health insurance, the State Hospital Authorities have provided the following information: 
New South Wales 
Recognised hospitals charge visitors to Australia $40 or $60 per day as appropriate for a shared ward or single ward respectively. 
Victoria 
Recognised hospitals charge visitors to Australia $40 or $60 per day as appropriate for a shared ward or single ward respectively. 
Queensland 
Charges are raised for overseas visitors accommodated in standard wards of recognised hospitals. The charge is based on the daily average cost per inpatient for the previous financial year of the hospital concerned. 
South Australia 
Daily charges raised by recognised hospitals are: 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped for the period ended December 1977 together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to the report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no evidence of any adverse effects arising from consumption of the minute quantities of pesticide residues currently permitted in food. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council (NH &amp; MRC) has set stria maximum residue limits for pesticide residues in food, as set out in the NH &amp; MRC Standard for Residues of Pesticides in Food, a copy of which I have placed in the Parliamentary Library. These limits have been established after critical examination of all available toxicological data and take into account the views of expert bodies both in Australia and overseas. The limits are maintained under continual review, and there is a large safety margin incorporated into all of the limits set. State and Territory Departments of Health and Agriculture and the Commonwealth Department of Primary Industry are all involved in the consideration of these standards. The NH &amp; MRC Standard for Pesticide Residues is in conformity with the internationally recognised Standard of the FAO/WHO Codex Alimentarius Commission. 
The NH &amp; MRC Standard has been adopted generally throughout Australia, and current consideration of the remaining areas where minor differences exist should shortly produce complete uniformity. 
In addition to the routine analysis of foods for pesticide residues by State Government Analytical Laboratories, the NH &amp; MRC in collaboration with States and Territories has, since 1970, monitored the levels of pesticides in the Australian diet, through its Market Basket Survey. Monitoring is in accordance with the recommendations of the FAO/WHO Joint Expert Committee on Pesticide Residues. 
Monitoring has shown that levels of pesticides in food in Australia are within the acceptable limits. 
National statistics on poisonings from crop spraying are incomplete but surveys have been conducted and reported in the literature. One report by G. R. Simpson in the Medical Journal of Australia, of 14 December 1974, covered 887 subjects including pilots (and others associated with aerial operations), growers, farmers, pest control operators and others associated with rural industry. The survey of 887 subjects revealed that five people were seriously affected and a further sixteen had been exposed to the extent that they needed to be removed from further exposure. The pesticides used included camphechlor, DDT, endrin, monocrotophos, parathion, azinphos, methomyl, methidathion, vamidothion, leptophos, aminocarb, methyl demeton and mevinphos. 
a ) The Australian Bureau of Statistics has a record of all deaths occurring in Australia. Deaths due to pesticide poisoning are recorded in the International Classification of Diseases category 'Pesticide, Fertilizers or Plant Foods'. This category excludes intentional poisoning but does not indicate whether the poisoning was due to the operation of crop spraying or identify the specific chemical concerned. Deaths recorded in Australia for 1 97 1 to 1 975 are as follows: 1971 six; 1972 two; 1973 two; 1974 ten; 1975 seven. Of these deaths 18 occurred in the age group 1 5 years and over. 
and (c) National records of poisonings due to pesticides are both difficult to obtain and diagnostically imprecise. My Department has been for some time attempting to overcome the difficulties of obtaining complete information on all cases of poisoning. Included in its considerations is the extended use of computerisation for reporting to facilitate continuous monitoring and immediate corrective action should any adverse trend appear. 
Statistics are collected in Queensland and Western Australia on persons treated as in-patients in hospital. 
Totals of cases of accidental poisoning due to pesticides, fertilizers and plant foods included therein were as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the provisions of Quarantine Proclamation 85a, the importation of eggs, egg pulp, dried eggs, egg noodles and egg albumen in any form is prohibited unless the Director of Quarantine or a person authorised by him by Instrument in writing consents to the importation and the Instrument is produced to a Collector of Customs or to a Quarantine Officer. Consent would only be given if it was considered that the importation could be made without risk. Because of the wide distribution of Newcastle disease throughout the world, permission has not yet been granted in any instance for the importation of eggs (fertile or otherwise), egg pulp, dried egg or egg noodles, unless as a sterilised product in cans. Permission is, on occasions, granted for the importation of small quantities (measured in grams or milligrams) of egg albumen as a laboratory chemical in other than veterinary and agricultural laboratories. Also, ' blown egg shells ' may be imported if commercially painted or if, not so painted, they are collectors' items which have been in the possession of the importer for at least one year and on arrival have been subjected to a disinfection process. Blown egg shells imported under these conditions do not constitute a quarantine risk. 
For eggs see ( 1 ) above. Breeding birds are prohibited entry into Australia unless the Minister or a person authorised by him is satisfied that the birds are to be imported for scientific purposes or in other special circumstances, and has by Instrument in writing consented to the importation and the Instrument is produced to a Collector of Customs or to a Quarantine Officer. Consent would only be given to the importation of breeding birds from any country if it was considered that the importation could be made without risk. 
Owing to the wide distribution of Newcastle disease throughout the world, such consent has not yet been given in any instance since the introduction of the legislation. 
The health insurance funds have a responsibility to pass on to the contributors the saving that will accrue as a result of their having to pay a lesser percentage of the benefit than they would otherwise have had to do. Therefore, the health insurance funds will be facing some very serious problems, so far as I am concerned, if they do not pass on that benefit to the contributors. I have power under the Act to take appropriate action, and I will not resile from taking that action unless they do the right and proper thing by the contributors. 
On the question of the cost of the patient contribution for the purchase of pharmaceutical benefits under the pharmaceutical benefit arrangements, the Government will be making an announcement, probably in the course of today or on Monday, about the cost of patient contributions for such benefits. Let me remind the House that had there been a wage freeze and a price freeze since 1976 the patients, and indeed the Opposition, would have had every right to expect there not to be an increase in patient contributions for pharmaceutical benefits but, in a situation where there are rises in costs and wages, one would expect there to be a rise in the patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits. People have to pay by one means or another for the services or items available to them. If there were to be a rise of the order mentioned by the honourable gentleman it would be completely consistent with the rises that have taken place generally in the consumer price index since 1976. 
Basically all that is required is that such a person make a statement that he is unemployed and is registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service for work. In regard to the type of person mentioned by the honourable member, the test whether such a person is self-employed or unemployed has to be applied realistically. The real problem is to find a proper interpretation of the word 'realistically'. Because I have had a number of inquiries about this interpretation, the Minister for Social Security has given, in definition of the word, the example that a person may be genuinely unemployed and eligible for the unemployment benefit even though he spends a certain amount of time on odd jobs in his business. If a person runs his business he is employed. Profitability, for instance, does not come into it. 
It is not possible to give a comprehensive list of all the factors which would indicate that a person has ceased to be self-employed, but it could well mean cessation of advertising or disposal of equipment. The Minister has informed me that it is necessary to examine each case on its merits, and the Department attempts to do that in order to establish whether the word 'realistically' can be applied to each case separately. 
I am very concerned about the North Richmond Community Health Centre. It is performing a very important role amongst an important ethnic community in Melbourne. It is providing a service to refugees. I am also concerned about some of the other underprivileged areas in some of our capital cities and country areas. I refer to the town of Bourke in my own electorate where there is a very high percentage of Aboriginals in the community. There has been justifiable concern that when a 'pay doctor' cheque, or a cheque drawn in favour of the doctor, is sent to some patients there is a very likely possibility that the doctor will never receive the cheque. I had discussions last night with the doctors ' reform group which also brought this question to my attention. 
I am looking at the proposition of enabling cheques to be returned by the Health Insurance Commission to the doctor rather than the patient in certain circumstances. Such an arrangement would avoid confusion and the possibility of doctors not receiving payment for services rendered. Many of the doctors who work in underprivileged areas are compassionate enough to accept the benefit as payment in full. This does not apply to all doctors in the community but it applies to the doctors who work in those types of communities. 
With the abolition of bulk billing the patient will at least have an opportunity of seeing the cost of the services rendered by the doctor. It is at that time that the doctor has an opportunity to recover the gap, that is, the difference between the benefit and the charge that he makes for the service rendered, if he chooses to do so. I assure the honourable member for Diamond Valley and all honourable members on both sides of the House that I will be looking very seriously at modifying the present arrangement which is far too inflexible. 
I will certainly convey the question and the concern of the honourable member to the Minister for Social Security. No doubt she will examine this matter in the course of her consideration of the Department of Social Security estimates during Cabinet Budget discussions. 
I respond on behalf of the Government to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  The Air Accidents (Commonwealth Government Liability) Act provides a maximum liability in respect of damages in the event of death or injury of $45,000 without the need to prove negligence. That point we accept. The limit under the Act has been tied to the limit under the Civil Aviation (Carriers Liability) Act which extends to all internal flights within Australia. International flights by Qantas Airways Ltd are similarly limited to the maximum carriers liability of $45,000. The level of damages applying under Australian aviation legislation reflects Australia's adherence to international civil aviation agreements. With the exception of the United States of America, these agreements have resulted in a uniformity of cover throughout the world. The Government will consider increasing the limit under the Australian aviation legislation in accordance with any further possible increases in the level of cover provided under the international agreements. Therefore, the Government does not accept the amendment at this stage. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will give effect to the Government's decision to abolish the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. The Commission was established as an interim committee by the Labor Government in 1973. The Act to provide for its formal establishment received royal assent on 19 December 1973. The Commission has achieved its purpose and it is time for a body with wider terms of reference to take over. Honourable members will be aware of the Government's determination to bring about a greater coordination of health and welfare programs. This determination was illustrated by the recent appointment of the Social Welfare Policy Committee of Ministers and its supporting Permanent Heads Committee. These Committees have been established to ensure the integrated development of plans and policies and to review existing policies and programs in the health and welfare field. To support the Permanent Heads Committee the Government has established a policy secretariat under the control of the former  Chairman  of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission,  Dr Sidney  Sax. It is this secretariat which will take over where the Hospitals and Health Services Commission leaves off. 
The social welfare policy secretariat will be physically located in the Department of Social Security. It will have responsibilities ranging over the whole field of health and welfare and will in fact absorb some of the ongoing activities of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. Let me emphasise that the new secretariat will have far wider responsibilities and a wider range of functions than the Commission. Detailed statements have been made on the duties and functions of the secretariat and I do not wish to repeat them here. Let me summarise by saying that  Dr Sidney  Sax and his secretariat will cover the whole range of social welfare and health programs, with a far-ranging brief that will support the planning and programming activities of many departments, but primarily, of course, those of the Department of Social Security and those of my own Department. The Bill before the House provides for the repeal of the 
Hospitals and Health Services Commission Act and makes necessary administrative provisions concerning the winding up of the commission. I draw honourable members' attention to clause 5 which provides for the transfer of the Commission's assets and liabilities to the Commonwealth, and to clause 8 which authorises me to give directions as to the disposal of the Commission's documents. Some former activities of the Commission will be carried on by my Department. The National Health Services Advisory Committee, which honourable members will recall was set up under the auspices of the Hospitals and Health  Services  Commission late last year, will continue to function and to provide the Government with independent advice on health matters.  Dr Sax  will continue to chair this Committee. The Committee provides a forum at which health policy issues can be debated and from which advice can flow to the Government. Its establishment was an experiment- a very worthwhile experiment- and only time will tell whether it will be as successful and worth while as I hope and anticipate it will. I would also draw honourable members' attention to clause 6 of the Bill. This clause provides that grants made under the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Act and subject to conditions will continue to be subject to those conditions and will be under the control of the Minister for Health. 
I would like now to pay tribute to the work of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, and particularly to its  Chairman Dr Sax. Dr Sax  has shown his ability to serve governments of very different political character and has become the kind of expert adviser that this Government and future governments should encourage. He has provided exceptional expertise and independent advice. He has worked splendidly through and with the Department of Health. The Government has tended to use the expertise of  Dr Sax  and his previous  Deputy Chairman, Mr John  Blandford, for special tasks as individuals. In this field, too, they have been most successful. There are many solid achievements by the hospitals and Health Services Commission. It may be invidious to pick on three but I would mention particularly the community health program, the report on rural health, and the health services research and evaluation activities. On behalf of the Government I wish to thank all those who have served on the Hospitals and Health Services Commission for the sound contributions they have made to the betterment of a more broadly based health services delivery system. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for amendments to the National Health Act to implement 3 separate decisions of the Government. Firstly, the Bill fulfils an undertaking by the Government to assist persons who live in isolated areas to obtain specialist medical treatment. I have previously stressed the Government's intention to improve accessibility to health services for people living in isolated areas. In particular, for these people, the costs of obtaining specialist medical treatment is considerably greater than if they were living in the major cities. I have indicated the Government's intentions to redress the disadvantage suffered by people living in remote areas, because of the high costs of travel and accommodation incurred in seeking specialist medical attention which is not available locally. 
Take for example, the case of a child living in Bourke who is referred to a Sydney specialist because there is no appropriate specialist closer. While the acceptable form of travel under the scheme will normally be surface travel, air travel will be permissible when medically necessary. If in this example it is necessary to travel by air, the costs of return economy class air travel for the parent and the child amount to $204.20, and when one adds the cost of accommodation for say 2 days and nights, the total cost to the parents could be of the order of a further $60. Therefore the total cost would be in excess of $250. The arrangements under this legislation will involve the parents in an outlay of $20 per person patient contribution, for fares and a refund of a maximum $ 1 5 per person for the overnight accommodation. Thus under the isolated patients travel and accommodation scheme, the parent of such a patient will be entitled to receive a maximum benefit of $224.20 for an approved specialist consultation while making a patient contribution of $40 towards the cost of the fare. 
People living in large urban and metropolitan centres do not always generally appreciate some of the disabilities suffered by people living in the remote regions of Australia. Many small communities do not have ready access to general practitioners and hospital services, let alone specialist attention. The Government, through its financial assistance to the Royal Flying Doctor Service; the community health program; the Mobile Dental Clinic under the school dental program; the encouragement to graduate doctors to practise in rural areas under the family medicine program, is endeavouring to improve the access of health services to people in remote areas. I pay a tribute to those employed by the Flying Doctor Service, the nurses, other health and social workers in the community health services, the dentists and therapists in the mobile dental clinics and the doctors who provide services to the people living in these disadvantaged communities. 
The isolated patients travel and accommodation scheme will add a new dimension to the efforts being made to help bring people in isolated areas within reach of services that others in the community take for granted. There are those who complain that decreasing the medical benefit from 85 per cent to 75 per cent of the medical benefits schedule will bear heavily on the sick. In cases where a specialist charges the schedule benefit as the fee for his consultation this will result in an increase of $2.60 per service. This remains a relatively small additional direct patient contribution compared to the high costs of travel and accommodation incurred by those sick people who have to travel great distances for such services. 
Although we are endeavouring to impose a sense of responsibility on both the providers and users of health services, we are also endeavouring to redress, at least to some extent the additional hardships of people living in remote areas, who have little or no service facilities available. The scheme provided for in this Bill is designed to ease this imbalance. 
The basic scheme is established by clause 4 of the Bill, which inserts a new Part in the National Health Act. The scheme will provide benefits to subsidise the costs incurred by patients, who reside away from major population centres, and who are required to travel long distances for specialist medical treatment. The isolated areas concerned will be identified by reference to local government areas in regulations under the Act. The Australian Capital Territory and the local government areas listed in regulations- urban and near urban- will be excluded from the scheme. All other areas, including all of the Northern Territory, will be included. Benefits will not extend to residents of external territories or for services rendered outside Australia. 
To be eligible a person must be referred for specialist treatment, which is available only at a centre more than 200 kilometres away. It will be necessary for the patient to obtain the prior approval of the Director-General of my Department by satisfying him that all the relevant criteria have been met. In cases of emergency this qualification will be dispensed with. In such circumstances the Bill provides for subsequent approval. 
The benefits will comprise a travel allowance and an accommodation allowance. New section 17 provides that the travel allowance payable will normally be the economy class return fare of the most direct scheduled road or rail service, less a prescribed amount. This amount which in effect is the patient's contribution to the fare, will be $20. Where the return fare is less than $20, no travel allowance will be paid. Other types of transport will be allowed where the referring medical practitioner certifies that the patient's medical condition would be likely to worsen if economy class surface transport were used. An accommodation allowance will be payable where, for the purposes of treatment, it is necessary for a patient to stay away from his residence overnight. New section 18 provides that the maximum allowance in this case will be $15 a night. The allowance will be payable for one or two nights, or up to eight nights where the consultant physician or specialist certifies the necessity for the extended stay. The accommodation allowance will not be paid to a patient, who becomes an inpatient of a hospital for the period he is in hospital, or in cases where the patient does not have to pay for commercial accommodation. 
The Government recognises that there will be some patients who, because of their age or particular medical condition, would need to be accompanied on their journey. The Bill therefore includes provision for payment of additional benefits, where it is necessary for a patient to be accompanied by a professional attendant or an escort. A professional attendant would be a nurse or other person with the capacity to attend to the patients medical needs, and an escort would normally be a parent, guardian or relative. As a general rule, allowances will be payable for either an attendant or an escort, but not for both. However, in certain circumstances, usually a child under 14 years of age and as provided in the new section 14, a patient may be accompanied by both an attendant and an escort. The allowances payable to attendants and escorts will be at the same rate and generally subject to the same conditions as apply to approved patients. 
There will be certain exclusions from the scheme, and these are set out in new sub-sections 13 (2), 17 (5) and 18 (3) of the Bill. In essence, benefits will not be payable where a journey to obtain a professional service is made by ambulance or any  form  of emergency transport, or where the patient has received or claimed an amount for compensation or damages, or receives assistance through some other scheme. Clause 12 of the Bill provides for appeals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of decisions relating to the approval of patients under new section 13 and to the approval of professional attendants and escorts under new section 14. The scheme is to come into operation as soon as the necessary regulations under the Act have been made. The estimated cost in a full year is expected to be $7m. 
While the Bill provides for the Commonwealth to administer the scheme, it is intended that Commonwealth and State health authorities will co-operate in that administration. Preliminary discussions have been held already between officers of my Department and representatives of the State authorities on this matter. It may well be that administration of the scheme will eventually pass to the States. The viability and scope of existing services in isolated areas will not be undermined, nor will services available through the community health program and other support programs be constrained by any travel and accommodation subsidy scheme. The primary aim should still be, wherever practicable, to bring the services to the people. One recognises that assisting people financially to travel to the services is only a 'second best' option. A continuing review of the utilisation of the scheme will be undertaken. This will assist in identifying any deficiencies in the scheme. 
The isolated patients' travel and accommodation assistance scheme is a major component of the Government's commitment to improve the accessibility of health services for isolated communities and to alleviate health costs to people in these areas. Further,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Bill introduces legislative provisions for the introduction into the health insurance arrangements of the concept of optional deductibles which I foreshadowed in my statement in the House on 24 May 1978. The proposed new provisions allow health insurance organisations to plan and, with the approval of the Minister for Health, operate benefit tables in addition to, or in place of, the basic medical and hospital benefits tables now operated by registered organisations. These new arrangements can apply to both medical and hospital benefits. The proposed provisions will operate from a date to be proclaimed. It is not intended that they should be brought into operation until the new concept has been discussed in detail with the health insurance industry and other interested organisations and appropriate guidelines adopted. 
These guidelines for deductibles will be the benchmarks against which the acceptability of proposed medical and hospital benefits plans, incorporating deductibles, will be measured. The Bill requires the guidelines to be prescribed by regulations. 
I would emphasise that contributors to medical and hospital benefit plans offering deductibles will be regarded as contributing to standard medical and hospital benefit tables and, for this purpose, payment of those medical and hospital contributions will exempt such contributors from payment of the health insurance levy. At this time nursing home benefits will not come within approved medical and hospital benefit plans offering deductibles. However, the Government will be prepared to consider their inclusion if, at some future time, it is shown that such a widening of the scheme would be desirable. Appropriate legislation would be enacted if such schemes were deemed to be desirable. As I stated previously, this innovation has two objectives: Firstly, to reduce health insurance contributions for those willing to accept a larger direct share of responsibility for the costs of their health care; and, secondly, to provide a deterrent against the overuse of health services. 
The Bill, in amending section 73BA, imposes a further condition to which the registration of medical benefits organisations are to be subject. This condition prohibits such organisations from entering into bulk billing arrangements for medical services other than those provided to eligible pensioners and their dependants. This amendment places medical benefit organisations in the same position as that which will apply to Medibank Standard under the new bulk billing arrangements. 
Finally, the Bill provides for an increase in the general patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits. I draw the attention of honourable members to clause 1 1, which will increase from $2.00 to $2.50 the maximum amount that approved pharmaceutical chemists may charge for the supply of a pharmaceutical benefit. This increase will take effect from 1 July 1978. As in the past, eligible pensioners- that is, those holding a pensioner health benefits card- will not be charged for pharmaceutical benefits. Similarly, no charge will be made for repatriation pensioners. 
It is now over two years since the patient contribution was set at $2. The increase of 25 per cent to $2.50 is broadly in line with the movements in prices and incomes since March 1976 and therefore is more of an adjustment than a change. The increase in the patient contribution is one of the means by which the increasing expenditure on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme can be reduced. This increase is expected to result in a saving of $20m in the financial year 1 978-79. 1 commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the House contains provisions which give effect to certain measures I announced in the House on 24 May. These relate to the levels of medical benefits to be payable for medical services and the abolition of bulk billing, except for persons with pensioner health benefit entitlements. Other major provisions in the Bill relate to changes in the public and private health insurance system and the cost sharing of the operating costs of the Australian Capital Territory hospitals. As I advised the House on 24 May, the level of medical benefits payable by Medibank and health insurance organisations for medical services is to be reduced from 1 July 1978. The Bill, in clause 5, provides for medical benefits to be paid at the rate of 75 percent of the schedule fees, with a maximum patient contribution of $10 for any one service where the schedule fee is charged. However, the level of medical benefits to be paid for services provided to eligible pensioners and their dependents is to be negotiated with the Australian Medical Association, the Australian Optometrical Association and the Australian Dental Association. The level of benefits specified in the Bill for services provided to these persons is 85 per cent of the schedule fees. 
The Bill enables a lower level to be prescribed by regulations following the negotiations with the professional bodies I have mentioned. The amendment effected by clause 7 abolishes bulk billing for medical services other than those provided to eligible pensioners and their dependants. The level of medical benefits payable in these circumstances will be the rate negotiated with the AMA, the AOA and the ADA. A consequential amendment resulting from the proposal to restrict bulk billing is contained in clause 9. 
Since the changes to Medibank from 1 October 1976 persons from overseas temporarily residing in Australia and Australian residents temporarily overseas, in general, have been either subject to the Medibank levy or covered as privately insured persons with private health insurance organisations in Australia registered under the National Health Act. Such persons from overseas may have eligibility for health care coverage provided by their overseas employer or a health insurance fund in the overseas country. Further, Australian residents temporarily absent from Australia may be adequately covered by an overseas plan or may take out adequate private insurance, suitable to local conditions, with an overseas fund. However, such coverage does not provide exemption from the health insurance levy. This means there are circumstances in which persons in the categories to which I have referred are financially penalised by being subject to the levy or by contributions to an Australian private health organisation registered under the National Health Act, while having adequate and satisfactory health insurance cover by an overseas operator. 
The Government has decided to vary the arrangements to assist these people. Accordingly the Bill, in clause 4, provides that such a person may be deemed to be a privately insured person by a declaration of the Minister for Health, where the Minister is satisfied that a person has adequate coverage and protection against liability for medical and hospital expenses. This action will exempt the person from payment of the health insurance levy. The declaration will apply for a period specified in the declaration and I propose that such approvals will be reviewed on a regular basis. Whilst introducing this concession within the health insurance arrangements, the Government is concerned that any change to the existing position should not lead to a breaking down of the universal coverage in Australia. For this reason permanent residents in Australia, Commonwealth and State public servants overseas whose conditions of remuneration adequately cover their position and Australian citizens overseas who are employed as locally engaged staff at Australian establishments outside Australia and entitled to the provision of health care reimbursement of expenses as part of the employment conditions, are excluded from the concession. 
From 1 August of last year the Government introduced measures directed to restraining medical benefits expenditure on pathology services. It has come to the Government's attention that over the past few years there has been a gradual but significant increase in health screening activity. In many cases such services are provided to apparently healthy people- for example, for purposes of recreation or sport and for testing of an individual's physical fitness. Under existing legislation medical benefits are payable for such services regardless of there being any indication medically for the necessity for the services or its effectiveness. I am sure honourable members will agree that the medical benefits system should not operate in such circumstances and that the costs of such services should be borne by the individual electing to have them rendered. 
The Bill provides, in clause 6, that unless the Minister for Health otherwise directs, a medical benefit is not payable in respect of a health screening service. Of course, it is not intended that benefits be prohibited where the examination or test is reasonably required for the management of the medical condition of the patient, and the direction power of the Minister will be for this purpose. 
Only where a doctor believes it is necessary in the management of the condition of the patient. Medical consultations by patients' own doctors for medical check up, in the course of normal practice, would continue to qualify for benefits. 
It is also intended that the services provided by several non profit organisations, namely Medicheck (Sydney) and the Shepherd Foundation in Melbourne should continue to attract medical benefits provided that they meet certain conditions. Broadly, these are that both Medicheck and the Shepherd Foundation use their records for specific research studies designed to establish the value of the screening services provided by these centres and that they bear the costs involved in undertaking the studies. This proposal conforms with the Government's policy of curtailing expenditure under the health insurance arrangements and eliminating abuses. It is estimated that savings up to $10m in a year could accrue to Medibank and the private health insurance organisations from the non-payment of medical benefits for these unnecessary services. 
Recently there has been considerable comment in the media on the claims of  Mr Milan  Brych to be an expert on cancer. I do not wish, at this time, to reopen the debate or the question of  Mr Brych  's qualifications, except to state, once again, that the Government does not consider  Mr Brych  to be a qualified medical practitioner, nor has it ever intended to give any impression of recognition of  Mr Brych  because of the payment of medical benefits for his services. Indeed an offer has been made to  Mr Brych  to allow his treatment, therapy and clinical methods to be evaluated by a top team of specialists and scientists. So far  Mr Brych  has not responded to this offer. The Government is still awaiting a response from  Mr Brych  to this specific offer. I have publicly stated that, at an appropriate time, the Health Insurance Act would be amended to exclude services rendered to Australian residents overseas, by persons such as  Mr Brych,  from attracting medical benefits. At the present time, the Act provides for medical benefits to be payable for such services when rendered by a person authorised to practise medicine under the law of the country concerned. The Act thus presently relates only to registration and not to qualifications. 
Clause 8 of the Bill enables the Minister for Health, where he is satisfied that a prescribed person is not acceptable as such for benefit purposes, because of lack of training, unavailability of proper medical or surgical facilities or for any other reason, to declare by notice in the Commonwealth Gazette that the person is unacceptable as a prescribed person. The notice does not take effect for at least one month after publication to enable persons who may be undergoing a course of treatment with the person concerned to make other arrangements. I would emphasise that the Government's action is motivated by a concern to avoid a situation where Australians are encouraged to seek treatment from unqualified persons overseas by virtue of the availability of medical benefits. I consider discretionary power to be necessary in these circumstances because of my concern that people may regard benefit payments as implied 'recognition' of what appears to be inexpert and possibly dangerous treatment. 
A further amendment in the Bill relates to Commonwealth payments in respect of recognised hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory. Under the hospital cost-sharing agreements between the Commonwealth and the States, the Commonwealth is obliged to pay 50 per cent of the net operating costs of recognised hospitals to the States, based on agreed budgets. Commonwealth payments are made to either the State Treasury or State health authority. No Commonwealth payments are made direct to individual recognised hospitals in the States. The amendments made by clause 10 of the Bill are designed to place Commonwealth payments under the Health Insurance Act for recognised hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory on a comparable basis to those payments made to States. 
Firstly, this is achieved by the Bill providing for Commonwealth payments under the Health Insurance Act to be based on an approved budget for a period, usually a financial year, covering all recognised hospitals in the Territory. The budget is to be submitted by the Capital Territory Health Commission. The Commonwealth payment for this purpose shall be 50 per cent of the approved net operating costs shown in the budget of recognised hospitals or 50 per cent of the actual net operating costs of the hospitals, whichever is the less. At present, the Commonwealth is required under the Health Insurance Act to meet 50 per cent of the actual net operating costs of the hospitals. Secondly, there is a new provision for the Commonwealth to make a further payment where the Minister for Health is satisfied circumstances justify the making of such a payment. However, the total Commonwealth payment under the Health Insurance Act shall not exceed 50 per cent of the actual net operating costs of recognised hospitals in respect of the period. Thirdly, the Commonwealth payment is to be made to the Capital Territory Health Commission. The Commonwealth payments are to be made, as they are to the States, subject to conditions determined by the Minister for Health who, in determining the conditions, must have regard to the heads of agreement set out in Schedule 2 of the Health Insurance Act. This will ensure that obligations accepted by the States under the agreements, such as free treatment for Medibank standard persons and levels of hospital charges, will also apply in respect of recognised hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Recognised hospitals in the Northern Territory will continue to be administered by my Department until their operation is transferred to the control of an independent Northern Territory administration. This transfer is expected to take place from 1 January 1979. At that time it would be appropriate to examine the position of recognised hospitals in the Northern Territory. In the meantime, my Department will institute administrative procedures for the Northern Territory which in effect establishes the application of principles of cost sharing along the lines adopted with States. Provision is also made in the Bill to rectify an anomaly resulting from the hospital agreements entered into in 1975 between the Commonwealth and the States being declared invalid in May 1976. Section 17 and repealed section 18 of the Health Insurance Act, which was repealed with effect from 1 October, 1976, prohibited the payment of medical benefits in certain circumstances. The legislation before the House provides that medical benefits shall not be payable on any claim received by Medibank, unless an account was rendered prior to the date of this announcement, in respect of medical services provided for a patient who would have been a hospital patient or an outpatient of, or diagnostic services provided to an inpatient of, a hospital that would have been a recognised hospital if the relevant hospital agreements had been valid prior to 1 October 1976. Any claims received in respect of that period and rejected on the basis of sections 17 and repealed section 18 being applicable will be re-examined. Of course, if the doctor has already received payment from a hospital for such services, medical benefits will not be paid. A remaining provision of the Bill, clause 1 1, contains a consequential amendment resulting from the abolition of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will amend certain health insurance levy provisions of the taxation law. It provides that, commencing in the 1978-79 income year, where a child of a divorced or separated couple would, under the existing law, be taken to be a dependant for levy purposes of both parents, the child will be taken to be a dependant solely of the parent who is paid family allowances for the child. This will avoid the situation that could arise at present where both parents may be required to pay levy up to the full family ceiling through the same child being taken as a dependant of each of them. 
The Bill will also exempt from levy for the 1978-79 and subsequent years foreign government representatives in Australia, and their families, unless the person concerned is an Australian citizen or a person who ordinarily resides in Australia. At present these people may be liable for the levy but not eligible for standard Medibank benefits. 
Another change to the health insurance levy arrangements will follow from an amendment to the Health Insurance Act that has just been proposed by me as Minister for Health. Under that amendment, an Australian resident temporarily overseas, or a non-resident temporarily in Australia, who has adequate health care cover under an overseas health fund or plan, may be treated as a privately insured person. Broadly, the effect of this will be that such persons will be exempt from the health insurance levy. At present only those whose private insurance is with an Australian health fund qualify for exemption from the levy in this way. 
The Bill also makes some changes of a technical kind, which I do not think I need discuss in this introductory address. A memorandum explaining the Bill in detail is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I cannot give a detailed answer to the honourable gentleman. I shall obtain the information and shall make sure that he receives it during the course of the day. 
I will reply firstly to the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  who stated that the Opposition opposes the principles embodied in this clause. Governments of all political persuasions have supported the principle of a gap and of the benefit not being paid in full. In fact, between 1953 and 1970 the gap between the medical benefit payable and the usual fee charged never fell below 30 per cent of the fee. When the Whitlam Government was in office it set the benefit at 85 per cent of the scheduled fee and the gap was left at $5. The $5 gap goes back to 1969. Eight years have passed. If we make a calculation we will find that the appropriate gap is in fact $10. Clearly the principle has been embraced by all parties. I think the reason for the gap has been to encourage a sense of personal responsibility in respect of the way in which both the providers and users of health care use these services. 
The matter to which the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  referred concerns a letter from the general manager of Medibank to State managers. I am not aware of the letter but if Medibank is faced with the prospect of increasing its medical benefits premiums, obviously it would be because it set its premium levels too low the last time it reviewed its medical table. One thing is certain: When the benefits registration committee of my Department examines any application from Medibank Private it will be treated in the same way as any other fund. My Department will make certain that Medibank Private, indeed any health insurance fund, confers upon the contributor the benefit from what the Department has calculated to be on average a 46c per week family reduction in the health insurance premium rate. 
Clause agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
In reply to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  in giving consideration to questions relating to bulk billing- indeed, its abolition- the Government felt, once the decision was taken to abolish bulk billing for all but pensioners and their dependants, that it would not make sense to abolish it for Medibank and leave it available for the private health insurance funds. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 (Provision of services by organisations). 
Firstly, I want to make it perfectly clear that the Government has taken quite a firm decision in respect of the abolition of bulk billing for all but pensioner patients and their dependants. I must quote from the report that was produced by the Hospitals and Health Services 
Commission, which quotes  Dr Cummins  as having said: 
The one system most devoid of incentives to induce efficiency in the production of health care services and to encourage economy in the consumption of those services happens to be bulk billing. 
There is quite a body of thought that believes firmly in that. Nonetheless the Government does recognise that bulk billing confers very real advantages on low income families, to ethnic groups and to Aboriginal communities and the Government will certainly not abolish bulk billing until satisfactory arrangements have been made. That was embodied in my statement. 
We are investigating what alternative arrangements need to be made, for instance, for the Aboriginal medical centres. There is one well known centre at Redfern, for instance, that has been financing its operations to some extent out of bulk billing to Medibank. It does get grants from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs but it has in fact been employing salaried doctors and they have been bulk billing for services rendered to those patients and then the benefits have been coming back to help run the medical service. Quite clearly this is a practice that we cannot allow to continue. The service needs and requires funding and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner,  and I, as well as our departments, are in discussion at the present time to ensure that alternative funding arrangements are made. The Government has taken a firm decision but has also made it quite clear that bulk billing will not be abolished until satisfactory alternative administrative arrangements are made to replace bulk billing for all but pensioner patients and their dependants. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 (Medical Service Outside Australia). 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) to ( 5 ) There are no statutory authorities, corporations or undertakings for which the Minister is responsible. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Waste paper from the Department of Social Security is recycled by arrangements with the Department of Administrative Services. 
The concern of the Queensland Government, the South Australian authorities and the Victorian Minister for Health about recent suggestions that there is a relationship between the chemical weedicide 2,4,5-T and human birth defects has been conveyed to me. Top scientists in this country, through the National Health and Medical Research Council, and in other parts of the world have been investigating for some time the suggestion of a link between congenital defects in humans and 2,4,5-T. To the present time none of those investigations has established any link between the chemicals involved and congenital defects. But I am sufficiently concerned to respond to the wishes of the Victorian Minister for Health,  Mr Houghton,  in particular, who rang me last night about the issue, and to ask the National Health and Medical Research Council to undertake a reexamination of all the additional evidence that may be available to it. I understand that the National Health and Medical Research Council will be meeting in Adelaide next week. I have been having discussions with the  chairman  of the Council and he informed me this morning that he will refer this matter to the Council for consideration. The Council has a sub-committee of scientists eminent in this area who are quite competent to re- examine all the available evidence. 
I noticed in one of the newspapers that I read this morning that the honourable member for Prospect said that my attitude to this matter was depressing. I hope he was misquoted. Until this morning I have not really expressed one view or another on the issue. I did call for a report from my Department. I have read a lot and I have heard quite a lot through the media about suggested links between congenital abnormalities and 2,4,5-T. I have consistently received reports from my departmental advisers that there is no established link between the two. However, because of more recent expressions of concern I feel that it is absolutely imperative now that people who are highly qualified to give an opinion should re-examine the whole issue. I notice that the Victorian Government has decided to take - 
The changes in health insurance previously announced by the Government should mean a saving- I repeat the word saving'- of 46c a week to the individual insurance funds in respect of each contributor. I expect all funds to take this into account fully in assessing their present insurance rates. In fact, I have instructed my Department to ensure that the full flow-on benefit to contributors is effected. However, I am informed that this does not necessarily mean that all funds will reduce their premiums by 46c as such. I understand that some funds have had a higher usage rate of their medical tables than they had anticipated which could well result in an application for an increase in their medical tables. 
-This has nothing to do with bulk billing. My Department will ensure that in every case where a health insurance fund makes an application for an increase in the premium payable on the medical table, the 46c on average- that is, the calculated difference between the present benefit and the smaller benefit that is payable as from 1 July- will be taken into account and will be passed on to contributors. 
in reply- In closing the debate on the motion for the second reading of this Bill I thank honourable members who have participated. Some very interesting points have come forward. It was quite obvious that the Opposition, predictably, supports the attractive aspects of the proposals but opposes those aspects which will impose additional responsibility upon the people who use the services. Some honourable members opposite have said that the proposal to widen the gap- to reduce the benefit to 75 per cent of the scheduled fee- will in fact only hurt the patients and will not really go to the source of the problems. They said that basically doctors are the people who initiate all the services- that they are the ones who make the decisions and who admit people to hospitals. 
Perhaps on the surface that might appear to be correct; but I cannot completely agree with the contention because in many instances the doctors, particularly in some of our country areas and in some of our suburbs, will be affected by the reduction of the benefit. Clearly in many cases the doctors will receive only the benefit; they will not receive any cash payment, nor will they receive what is represented by the gap. So to some extent the doctors will be expected to make a contribution and certainly will be taking a reduction in income in certain circumstances. As I have said to the House on other occasions, I would expect the medical profession to treat each case on its merits and where hardship obviously exists one would expect it, on ethical grounds alone, to accept the benefit and not demand cash before service is rendered. I will be continuing to have talks with representatives of the profession. In all my discussions with them I have not had any view put to me that is contrary to that as being their general approach to professional conduct. 
Much has been said about the role of doctors as part of the Australian community. A lot of people quite unnecessarily engage in doctor bashing. We know that there are members of the medical profession who abuse the system but we must remember that there are people in any profession who will abuse the system. It would be very unfortunate if we were to adopt the attitude that, because there are certain people in a profession who flagrantly abuse the system, the whole of the profession is bad. I cannot accept that view. I think that the changes that have been made- they are not basic changes; they are changes of degree- will impose additional responsibility on doctors as members of the community. Undoubtedly the medical profession will react to the attempts the Government is making to achieve a more responsible use of resources and services in this country. No government can stand by and see health costs explode at the rate of 225 per cent in a six -year period and not attempt to come to grips with the problems. I do not suggest for one moment that the answers we have provided in these minor modifications are the complete answer to the problem. In fact, no Western country has yet been able satisfactorily to deal with an escalating health cost system. But we are making a valiant attempt. 
The changes made by the Government on 1 October 1976 quite clearly have resulted in a greater appreciation of the health cost problem in the community. I believe that they served to expose the health cost problem generally. They made people more mindful of the problem. When most of our health costs were buried in Consolidated Revenue it was very easy to ignore the fact that health costs were rapidly exploding. The only direct effect on the individual was, of course, the effect of rising income tax. By making the changes that we made on 1 October 1976, quite clearly we have exposed the problem to the people. The people can appreciate the problem of health costs. I think this is terribly important from the public's point of view. I think it is also terribly important from the point of view of the providers of health services. Since that time the Government has had many discussions with State governments. There have been meetings at the ministerial level. There have been numerous meetings at the officer level relating to the operating costs of hospitals. Already there is some indication that the mechanisms we have set up to achieve a budgeting process for meeting half the net operating costs are in fact working. It is clear that both the Commonwealth and State governments have recognised the dilemma and the need to constrain costs where possible without reducing the level of effective services to the Australian community. 
Nonetheless, one does not undertake this sort of task without causing some opposition, concern and protest. But this Government is not in the position of being able to let the whole thing go and of witnessing the crowding out of its opportunity to meet expenditure in other very important areas of public concern. There is a great challenge facing this Government and the community. I believe that we are facing up to it. There are those in the community who have said that the proposals do not go far enough. To those people let me say that a complete review is still in process. The Government has attempted to gather as much data and statistics as is available to it. I expect a better profile of statistics to be available to the Government in the next few weeks. 
I would like to reply to some of the comments that have been made, particularly in respect of nursing homes. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  sought an understanding from me that the Government would take into consideration the very real concern that exists in the minds of some pensioner patients now in public hospitals and other pensioners who apparently believe that if they are admitted to hospital now they will have to pay out some of their pension. In view of those representations, I feel that it is necessary for me to reiterate the Government's intentions in relation to the accommodation in hospitals of long term patients who would normally be under nursing homes care if nursing home accommodation were available to them. The first point is that this is not a new policy. Pensioner patients have contributed from their pensions to board and lodging in registered private nursing homes for many years. During the terms of previous Liberal-Country Party governments, a pensioner in a nursing home registered under the National Health Act retained over $6 a week of his or her pension for personal needs. When the Australian Labor Party came to office this amount was reduced to $4.20 a week. Opposition members should face up to that fact when they are referring to this matter. In 1976 the Fraser Government increased the amount of pension retained by the pensioner for personal needs to over $5 a week. Since then the Government has further increased the amount to $7.20 a week. This year the Government went further by indexing the amount the pensioner retains from his or her pension to 12.5 per cent and ensuring that this amount will not fall below $7.20 a week. In State government nursing homes larger amounts are retained by pensioner patients who also generally make contributions to their board and lodging from their pensions. The Government will take these varying amounts into consideration when negotiating with State governments to rationalise the use of expensive hospital facilities. 
Some States have shown a disposition to apply the same rules to nursing home patients in State nursing homes as apply in their own State public hospitals. The Government would take that into account also. The present situation has arisen because of a mal-distribution of nursing home beds. Where there are either no nursing homes or special facilities to care for frail aged people, the hospitals have been providing care for such patients. The average public hospital bed occupancy rate throughout Australia is only about 66 per cent. There is therefore little point in building unnecessary additional nursing homes while unused capacity exists within the hospital system. There is general agreement between the State Health Ministers and me that positive action should be taken to regularise this situation by reclassifying the long-term patients in public hospitals whose situation is similar to that of nursing home patients. The need to reclassify such patients has been recognised for some time and has been the subject of discussions at the Australian Health Ministers Conference over the past few years. In addition, the Committee on Care of the Aged and the Infirm, in its report issued in January 1977, considered the subject and reported that nursing home type patients in public hospitals should contribute to their upkeep in the same way as do patients in nursing homes. 
The Government agrees with this proposal as part of its overall policy of reducing the rising costs of hospitals which, as I nave mentioned on previous occasions, are by far the most costly component of health care. That is the first point. This is not a new policy but a move to regularise the situation of nursing home patients who happen to be in public hospitals. It is a recommendation from an expert committee. It has been agreed to in principle by State Ministers from both parties. 
I repeat that where it is possible to use excess hospital capacity to care for nursing home type patients it makes good sense to utilise these facilities to care for these people. However, it was neither logical nor equitable for nursing home type patients to be making their patient contributions to board and lodging while similar patients in hospitals were not being classified in a similar category. The principle of patient contribution towards board and lodging in nursing homes is not new in its applicaton to nursing home patients. Therefore, application of the policy within the hospital system cannot be regarded in any sense as a radical departure from the practice of many years standing provided that it is applied with care and consideration of the needs of the aged people, as it will be. 
The second point is equally important. In view of the attempts to confuse the whole issue which are regrettable, there is a clear distinction between nursing home type patients to whom I have just referred and other pensioners. I make it quite clear that the proposals I have repeated will not affect pensioner patients who require to enter hospital in the normal way for illness, injury or other treatment. These patients will be treated as normal hospital patients. They will be entitled to receive hospital treatment as long as they require it. They will not be required to contribute part of their pension towards their care and accommodation. I emphasise that the assessment of the patient's medical condition as reported by the doctor actually treating the patient will determine whether he or she continues to require hospital treatment or is reclassified as a nursing home type patient. 
The important point is that the responsibility for deciding whether a patient is to be reclassified as a nursing home type patient will, in the first instance, rest in the hands of the doctor who is treating the patient. At some length I have endeavoured to put the record straight in respect to some of the rumours that have emanated from radio station 3AW in Victoria and have terrified a lot of pensioners throughout the State into believing that if they become ill they will have to contribute their pension to get medical and surgical treatment in a hospital. That is a lot of rubbish. I regret that the person concerned, whose name is Paul Barber, has indulged in a campaign to scare unfortunate people in such a manner. 
-I doubt that he will. He is out on a limb on the issue. I have spoken on a talk-back program with him. I have tried to put the record straight. I hope that no pensioner in Victoria or anywhere else will be deluded by scare tactics designed to promote the cause of individual people in the community or for political motivation. I am very sad that so many people have been disturbed by that action. 
It has a fair bit to do with the way in which people have acted. Time is getting on. It is obvious that many honourable members want to get home. There are so many other things I could have said. I conclude by saying that if any honourable member has any further questions he wishes to put to me he should not hesitate to come to me but not today. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Klugman's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I would just like to respond to those speakers who have addressed themselves to the question of deductibles, particularly to the comments of the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  who quite rightly raised the issue of universality and the dangers inherent in developing a front end deductible type system to confer inordinate amounts of personal patient contribution in return for a very substantially reduced premium. The ultimate result of that, if it were carried to absurdity, would be to destroy universality and the community rating principle in health insurance. So quite clearly one has to be very careful not to allow guidelines to be such that they could in fact distort community rating and also the principle of universality of cover. I think the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  yesterday raised the point of what would happen if a health insurance fund offered a $5,000 deductible. He asked how I, as Minister, would react to that proposition. I would plainly consider it to be unacceptable to allow such an example to be within the guidelines. We would be looking to a health insurance organisation maintaining full non-deductible basic tables where it wishes to offer a reasonably attractive optional deductible table. 
Yes, in fact I would be taking the general view that where an organisation wishes to offer a basic optional deductible table, it could continue to offer and operate a full basic table. The only exception to this system would be where the optional table was equivalent to the full basic table with minor exclusion from benefit of a small number of scheduled medical services, or perhaps restricted to a limited category of services. I am referring, of course, to the obvious applications that the Government is likely to receive with respect to certain items. I will certainly be determining these issues and it will not be open season for the health insurance funds to adopt the exorbitant plan that was cited to me as an example. 
I shall conclude by saying that most of the debate on the issue of deductibles seems to have revolved around the concept of front end deductibles; yet there are quite a lot of possibilities with respect to rebates and back end deductibles, for the want of a better word. A back end deductible could be considered where, at the end of a financial year, a person could be eligible to receive a rebate if a certain number of services had not been availed of during that year. We have talked about the deletion of items as a form of deductible. I think a very much more important possibility is where a fund might offer, as a result of the flexibility that is offered to it, a deductible as an incentive to contributors to adopt healthy life styles. Those people who choose not to smoke, those people who choose not to drink alcohol and those people who choose to adopt a fairly sensible life style could use a deductible scheme. How on earth a health insurance fund could administer such a proposal I do not know, but I understand that some health insurance funds are investigating the desirability of offering such tables. 
What I think is very important is that this proposal will offer the opportunity for innovation. It will offer the opportunity for experiment and it will offer the opportunity for evaluation. Some countries have adopted the principle. The United States is one such country. But very limited research material is available to us and I would hope that some pilot studies could be carried out from time to time. At least we have provided the opportunity for them. We will be watching them very closely and monitoring the results. They could provide some very useful information on the direction that health insurance should take in the years to come, not only in this country but also other Western countries. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Under the Hospitals Development Program the Commonwealth makes funds available to the States to assist them in their hospital capital building and refurbishing programs. Commonwealth funds are in the form of block grants to supplement an overall State Program and are not directed towards individual projects. 
and (4) Projects at the Ipswich Hospital which have been included in the approved schedule of works for Queensland for which Hospitals Development Program grants are provided are as follows: 
Total 
Description of project estimated cost $m 
New ward block......... 10.013 
Renovation of ward kitchens..... .036 
Improvements to nurses quarters . . . .204 Additional X-ray equipment..... .077 
See (2) Assistance to Queensland is in the form of a block grant to supplement a total program. Queensland has the final responsibility for managing total funds both Commonwealth and State. The decision to alter funding priorities by bringing forward or deferring projects rests with Queensland. 
Since the Hospitals Development Program commenced in 1974-75 the following block grants have been made to Queensland: $m 
1974- 75............ 5.084 
1975- 76............ 15.280 
1976- 77............ 17.000 
1977- 78............ 7.130 
44.494 
The honourable member will also be aware that Ipswich Hospital is a recognised hospital included under the Agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia and the State of Queensland in relation to the Provision of Hospital Services (1976). Under this Agreement the approved net operating costs of the hospital are shared equally. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The  Sydney Morning Herald  has advised that no such article appeared in that newspaper on 3 August 1977. 
The disease known as Equine Rhinopneumonitis has been present in Australia as an equine respiratory disease for many years. The disease is caused by Equine Herpes Virus Type 1 (EHV1). Abortions due to the disease have been reported only recently, the disease first being suspected as a cause of abortion in 1975 when virus was isolated from an aborted equine  foetus  in  Western  Australia. In Tasmania the disease was confirmed as the cause of a single neo-natal mortality in December 1976, but has not been diagnosed as a cause of abortion. The disease has not been confirmed previously as a cause of abortion in other States or the Northern Territory. However, the disease (with or without abortion) has never been notifiable in Australia until it was made so in 
New South Wales in November 1977 and in Western Australia in December 1977. 
Since August 1977, the disease was confirmed as the cause of abortion in single cases on two properties near Melbourne and in New South Wales, 1 property near Bathurst, 3 properties in the Scone area and 1 property at Cobbity have been affected by EH VI abortions. A further property near Scone is suspected to have been affected but the diagnosis of EHV1 abortion has not been confirmed. 
Source of the virus causing these outbreaks has not been determined as yet. 
There is a difference in scientific opinion on whether the abortions are due to the Equine Herpes Virus which has been present in Australia for many years or whether an exotic biotype of the virus has been introduced. As horses have been imported for many years and there is no serological test which can differentiate between the suggested types of this virus, it is difficult to determine the source of the virus which is causing these abortions. 
Equine Herpes Virus Type 1 abortion has been gazetted as a scheduled disease in Western Australia, and made a notifiable disease in New South Wales. Changes to import requirements are not currently under consideration, having been considered in depth in consultation with State authorities in 1977. There is no serological test, for use on horses before export to Australia that would differentiate possible strains of this virus. 
The importation of an inactivated vaccine from the United States for trials has been considered. However, the information available from the manufacturers, to this time, is not adequate to ensure inactivation to Australian requirements. Incomplete inactivaton of vaccine would carry the risk of introduction of diseases which do not at present occur in Australia, through vaccine contaminants. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

As Standard Medibank operates on a national basis, details of the number of persons resident in the Northern Territory covered are not listed separately and therefore are not available. 
The Health Insurance Commission in respect of its private health insurance activities (i.e. Medibank Private) is registered under the National Health Act to operate medical and hospital funds in each State, including the Northern Territory. This means that for the purposes of the National Health Act, the Health Insurance Commission represents six separate private health insurance organisations. There is no separate registration of organisations in the Northern Territory. Accordingly, details of the number of persons resident in the Northern Territory who contribute to Medibank Private in respect of a particular State are not available. 
The Medibank Branch Office in Darwin pays cash benefits up to $100 and hospital benefits by cheque for hospital bills representing not more than 12 days in hospital. The Darwin Branch Office also pays benefits in respect of ancillary tables. Claims falling outside these categories are processed in Adelaide and paid by cheque. 
The average time from the date of receipt of a Medibank bulk-bill claim to the issue of the benefit cheque is 10.5 days. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Government has not yet had the opportunity to consider the recommendations contained in the Nossal/Reid report following their independent inquiry into the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories ' internal operations and capital works program. However, I am hopeful that I will be in a position to bring forward for consideration by the Parliament in the Autumn 1979 Session, appropriate amendments for the CSL Act, following Government consideration of the report. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) $2,618.45; (b) $3,770.36; (c) $81,959.03; (d) $3,385.47. (a), (b) and (d) reflect localised publicity advertising. No major campaigns were undertaken in these periods. 
Reflects advertising in foreign language newspapers dealing with family allowances, pensions and benefits. 
) See following table. 
3 ) Publicity Vote-590.2. 10. 
See following table. 
5 ) See following table. 
Advertising was lodged with agencies by the Australian Government Advertising Service in accordance with normal practices. 
The estimated cost of publicity advertising in 1977-78 is $5,000. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)and(2)- 
Percentage of total G.P. consultations identified as: 
Brief Standard Long Prolonged 
Notes: (i) The figures cover surgery consultations and home visits. No distinction as between brief, standard, long or prolonged is made for consultations at hospitals or nursing homes. 
The figures for Medibank relate to services rendered during the 3 months ended 31 December 1977 for which benefits have been paid. It is estimated that they represent 90 per cent of the services rendered for which claims on Medibank are expected. 
The figures for other private health funds (i.e. other than Medibank Private) are estimates based on information of medical benefits claims paid supplied by the larger private health funds for the six months ended 3 1 December 1977, or a lesser part of that period. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following numbered statements relate directly to the numbered recommendations appearing on pages 133 to 137 inclusive of the Report 'Review of Australian Quarantine Arrangements' tabled in Parliament on 26 October 1 977. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has produced a list of recommended notifiable diseases; however, individual State lists differ from this list where a State's particular requirements need to be met. The powers available under the Quarantine Act in relation to quarantinable diseases are not circumscribed in any way by their non-inclusion in the list of prescribed diseases set out in Regulation 8. However, this matter will be kept under review. 
Section 84 of the Quarantine Act provides a penalty for any Quarantine Officer who maliciously and without reasonable cause orders any vessel, person, goods, animal or plant into quarantine. Also, any individual who considers any such action was taken without due cause may seek appropriate legal remedy through the courts. No amendments to the Quarantine Act on this matter are proposed. 
Deletion will be effected at an appropriate future time. 
Present controls have been examined in the light of the Report and no change to the present system of controls is considered to be necessary at this stage. 
New procedures have been implemented which provide that ships which give satisfactory responses by radio to a series of standard questions will be permitted to move directly to berth without the necessity for quarantine clearance at the quarantine line. On berthing a Quarantine Officer will issue a certificate of pratique on being satisfied as to the health conditions of the ship. The normal quarantine inspection for rodent and insect infestation and general sanitary condition of the vessel will then be carried out. 
The matter arose from the fact that, in Melbourne, the operational aspects of control were undertaken by General Quarantine staff whilst in other States this function was performed by the Plant Quarantine Branch of the Service. The function has been performed satisfactorily in Melbourne for many years. However, in view of the comments in the Report and in the interests of national uniformity, arrangements have been made to transfer the functions to Plant Quarantine in Melbourne as soon as an appropriate trained workforce is available. 
No action has yet been taken on this recommendation. There is no objection in principle, subject to retention of powers under the Quarantine Act, to take all appropriate measures in relation to 'domestic' shipping which may be necessary to prevent the introduction or spread of disease. 
The proposal that quarantine clearance procedures at airports be included in the duties of the Primary Customs Officer is being examined jointly by officers of the Bureau of Customs and the Department of Health. 
The merger of Plant and Animal Quarantine functions for baggage inspection was investigated in 1975 by the Department of Agriculture, NSW, on behalf of the Standing Committee on Agriculture. The report from this investigation indicated that there were advantages in the existing arrangements and that no saving would accrue from a merger. 
In the absence of specific developments indicating that the findings of the evaluation may no longer be valid, it would be premature to raise the matter with the States. It is proposed however to bring the matter forward again when the opportunity presents. 
The Government has agreed in principle to: 
progressive closure of human quarantine stations; 
construction of a high security quarantine treatment unit at the Fairfield Infectious Diseases Hospital in Victoria. The unit would operate as a national centre for Australia and as such it would be available for the treatment of any quarantine case referred from other States; 
the transfer to the States of responsibility for the treatment, care and investigation of individual quarantine cases- the Commonwealth would retain direct responsibility for quarantine policy, coordination, central administration and general surveillance. The States would be reimbursed costs which they incur in carrying out quarantine activities on the Commonwealth 's behalf. 
The new plans will be implemented progressively in consultation with the States, each of which has indicated agreement in principle. 
The question of recovery of capital and interest charges thereon for additional onshore animal and plant quarantine station facilities is currently under consideration by the Government. 
2. No action is required. 
The problem of weed seeds in imported seed is being examined by a Working Party of the Standing Committee on Agriculture. Changes to legislation and/or procedures will be considered when the report of the Working Party is available. 
Coastal surveillance activities in the north-west of Australia have been increased in response to reports of landings by foreign fishing vessels and to the unscheduled arrival of Vietnamese refugee boats. Future coastal surveillance arrangements are currently under examination in the light of quarantine needs and those of other responsible Departments. 
The Department assumed responsibility for disposal of quarantinable airport garbage on 1 July 1 977. Qantas, TAA and Ansett were approached with the proposal contained in the Recommendation but did not favour the concept. Under present arrangements, the Department of Transport undertakes the operational aspects of airport waste disposal on behalf of the Department of Health. 
The Prime Minister has written to all State Premiers advising that the Government had agreed to the negotiation of new Commonwealth/State arrangements for the provision, operation, maintenance and replacement of incinerators at sea ports. This would replace the 1 966 agreement under which the Commonwealth reimbursed the States for construction costs only. Specific proposals have been conveyed to the States at officer level. Responses from all States have not yet been received. 
7. No action has yet been taken on this matter. 
8. No action has yet been taken in this matter. 
The evaluations undertaken by the Bureau of Customs are of value in assessing the efficacy of quarantine screening procedures at airports. However, the techniques employed do not necessarily have application as a model for the evaluation of all quarantine control procedures. 
Following Departmental evaluation, an automatic disinfection device developed by Qantas has been approved for use in cargo compartments of Qantas 747 aircraft on flights of up to 12 hours duration. It is expected that these devices will be fitted to all Qantas 747 aircraft and brought into service by May 1978. 
Quarantine charging policy including the question of capital cost recovery is currently under consideration by the Government. 
The Government is to proceed with the construction of the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong to facilitate testing and research in respect of exotic diseases. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories are undertaking limited work in this area pending completion of that laboratory. 
No action is required. 
No action is required. 
Proposals are under consideration to amend the Quarantine Act to provide amongst other things that a Quarantine Officer may make enquiries and enter, inspect, restrict access to and detain goods under certain circumstances. 
The question of increased penalties for breaches of the Quarantine Act and Regulations is currently under consideration by the Government. 
Quarantine charging policy, including the question of capital cost recovery, is currently under consideration by the Government. This review will include consideration of the need to amend the Quarantine Act. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The number of staff employed in each of the benefits sections for the quarterly periods concerned are shown in the tables below. However, it is relevant to bring to the honourable member's attention the fact that statistics of staff employed in Regional Offices of the Department according to the various benefit sections have only been recorded since the June quarter 1 976. Before that, quarterly statistics of staff employed in State Headquarters of the Department were recorded separately for the various benefit sections but no such breakup was maintained for regional offices. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following are the estimated additional  costs to  the Commonwealth in a full year of abolishing the income test on age pensions for persons aged: (a) 69 years, $43m; (b) 68 and 69 years, $95m; (c) 67 to 69 years, $159m; (d) 66 to 69 years, $237m; (e) 65 to 69 years, $330m. These costs are based on the estimated population and number of pensioners at the end of June 1978 and the pension rates applicable from May 1978. The costs are gross costs in that they make no allowance for the additional revenue which may result from the taxation of the payments concerned. 
Ministerial Travel by Qantas Airways Ltd Within Australia (Question No. 945) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: ( 1 )-(6) The land in question at Broadmeadows is part of Crown Portion 5, Parish of Will Will Rook, County of Bourke and is Commonwealth Property. This land was acquired in various parcels between 1936 and 1956 and was vacated by Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in 1969. Tentative arrangements were made some time ago between the Department of Social Security and the Department of Administrative Services to reserve part of this land for the possible establishment of a Rehabilitation Centre. However the Department of Social Security is now looking at alternative sites which will be better suited to the needs for rehabilitation services in Victoria and it is unlikely that the Broadmeadows site will be required for this purpose. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(D- 
1971- 72........... 5,383.38 
1972- 73........... 80,511.82 
1973- 74........... 134,999.47 
1974- 75........... 96,144.72 
1975- 76........... 98,709.06 
1976- 77........... 93,464.24 
1977- 5 May 1978....... 109,208.58 
Total........... 618,421.27 
As records are retained for a six year period only, information prior to 1971-72 is not available. 
Given the large number of individual claims received from Connair during the period 1971-72 to 1977-78 I would be reluctant, at this time, to authorise the major diversion of resources to undertake a detailed analysis of the reasons for the claims. However, if the honourable member has some particular matter in mind, I would be pleased if he would bring it to my attention and I will endeavour to provide him with the relevant details. 
Employment of Women in Defence Services (Question No. 994) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Department of Social Security has no record of any such cases. 
No. However, I am informed that under the Home Purchase Assistance program to be implemented by the new Commonwealth-States Housing Agreement, provision is made for variation in repayment in the event of hardship for those borrowers who obtain a subscribed loan from that source. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) At 2 1 March 1978 there were 765,000 age, invalid and widow pensioners aged 70 years and over. 
(a) and (b) Information on the country of residence of pensioners is not available by ages of pensioners. The following table shows the estimated number of age, invalid, wives and widow pensioners aged 65 to 70 years receiving full and pan pensions at 2 1 March 1978: 
The following table shows the estimated number of persons aged 65 to 70 years qualified by residence, at 31 December 1977, who were not in receipt of a Social Security pension: 65 years........... 40,700 66 years........... 33,800 67 years........... 24,700 68 years........... 21,200 69 years........... 20,000 70 years........ negligible 
The above figures include 28,500 persons aged 65 to 69 years in receipt of Repatriation service pensions. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to question number 1090, page 3163 of  Hansard  of 8 November 1977. This information is the latest available as statistics on programs administered by the Department of Social Security by electoral divisions are not routinely kept. I will ensure that the honourable member is informed when additional information is available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The report on the operations of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations under section 76a of the National Health Act, in respect of the year 1976-77, is expected to be ready for tabling by October 1 978. 
The Government recognises that the effectiveness of information contained in the report must be reduced by delays in its publication. Steps are being taken to minimise such delays. 
The main reason for the delay in tabling the report under section 76A of the National Health Act in recent years including the 1976-77 Report has been the late lodgment of annual returns by many of the registered organisations. It seems that these delays have been largely due to administrative difficulties within the respective organisations caused by changes to the health insurance arrangements. I understand, for example, that a number of organisations have had transitional problems following major changes to the Scheme from 1 October 1976. 
The organisations in each State which failed to furnish their annual accounts for 1976-77 within the statutory time of three months after the close of the financial year are: 
New South Wales 
Grand United Order of Oldfellows, Friendly Society of New South Wales 
Health Insurance Commission 
Hibernian Australasian Catholic Benefit Society of New South Wales 
Hunter Medical Benefits Fund Limited 
New South Wales District, No. 85, Independent Order of Rechabites, Salford Unity, Friendly Society 
Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited 
Manchester Unity Independent Order of Oddfellows, Friendly Society in New South Wales 
New South Wales Teachers ' Federation Health Society 
NIB Health Funds Limited 
Protestant Alliance Friendly Society of Australasia 
Grand Council of New South Wales 
Store Hospital and Medical Fund 
Wollongong Hospital and Medical Benefits Contribution Fund 
Victoria 
Australian Natives ' Association 
Army Health Benefits Society 
Ancient Order of Foresters in Victoria Friendly Society 
Cheetham Hospital Benefits Fund 
Geelong Medical and Hospital Benefits Association Limited 
Grand United Hospital Benefit Society in Victoria Friendly Society 
Grand United Order of Free Gardeners of Australasia 
Hospital Benefits Association Limited 
Health Insurance Commission 
Hibernian Australasian Catholic Benefit Society, Victoria District No. 1 
Independent Order of Odd Fellows of Victoria 
Irish National Foresters ' Benefit Society 
Victorian District Independent Order of Rechabites Friendly Society 
Latrobe Valley Hospitals and Health Services Association 
Manchester Unity Independent Order of Odd Fellows in Victoria 
Mildura District Hospital and Medical Fund 
Naval Health Benefits Society 
Order of the Sons of Temperance National Division Friendly Society 
Protestant Alliance Friendly Society of Australasia Grand Council, of Victoria 
Tramways Benefit Society 
United Ancient Order of Druids 
Yallourn Medical and Hospital Society 
Queensland 
Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society in Queensland 
Hibernian Australasian Catholic Benefit Society. Queensland District No.5 
Health Insurance Commission 
Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited 
Queensland Teachers' Union Health Society 
South Australia 
Fire Service Health Fund 
Health Insurance Commission 
National Health Services Association of South Australia 
South Australia Police Department Employees' Hospital Fund 
South Australian District, No. 8 1 , Independent Order of Rechabites Friendly Society 
Western Australia 
Friendly Societies Health Services 
Goldfields Medical Fund (Incorporated) 
Health Insurance Commission 
Hospital Benefit Fund of Western Australia Incorporated 
Government Employees ' Hospital and Medical Benefits Fund Incorporated 
Tasmania 
Druids Friendly Society of Tasmania 
Electrolytic Zinc Employees' Medical and Hospital Funds 
Health Insurance Commission 
Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited 
Queenstown Medical Union Ancillary Medical Benefits Fund 
Queenstown Medical Union Hospital Benefits Fund 
St Luke's Medical and Hospital Benefits Association 
Sub-section 76 (2) of the Act provides that an extension of time for the lodgment of annual accounts may be granted at the Permanent Head 's discretion. In view of the administrative difficulties being experienced by many organisations, extensions have usually been granted when applied for. However, action has been taken against organisations under the provisions of sub-section 75 (3) of the Act on specific matters, although it has not been found necessary to initiate prosecutions under these provisions to date. 
I might add it has been decided that in future extensions under sub-section 76 (2) of the Act will only be granted in extreme circumstances. ( 5 ), (6 ) and ( 7 ) No directions have been served under section 74G of the National Health Act. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Committee on Medical Schools' Report 'Expansion of Medical Education' (1973) recommended a supply target for medical manpower of one doctor per 543 population by 1991. The supply of doctors is currently running in excess of the Committee's projections because of three main factors: population has grown at a slower rate than expected; the immigration of doctors is much greater than expected; and medical schools are producing more graduates than expected as a result of lower student wastage rates and adjustments to courses. 
Unless there is substantial change in these factors, the target set for 199 1 is likely to be achieved in 1982. In the sense that the target is being achieved earlier than planned there will be an oversupply of doctors from 1982. 
On the question of costs, it would appear from overseas studies that a substantial oversupply of doctors practising curative medicine would add considerably to the national health bill. 
These matters are currently under review at both Commonwealth and State levels. In respect of the Commonwealth, for example, arrangements are currently being made for a committee of officers of the Departments of Education, Health, and Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Tertiary Education Commission to examine the issues further. 
Interdepartmental Committee on Freight Rates  (Question No. 1193) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. The British Depanment of Health and Social Security recently decided that the payment of its National Insurance pensions in Australia should be made by order direct from its United Kingdom Central Office in the same way as its pensions are paid in all other countries. 
) See answer to ( 1 ). The amount that UK pensioners receive for their sterling orders would depend on the rate of exchange applicable at the time that they cashed the order at the bank. 
No. 
None. 
The fee charged by Banks for cashing sterling orders varies and is a matter for individual Banks to decide. 
No cases of hardship have come to notice resulting from changes in arrangements between the UK Government and the Depanment of Social Security. It is emphasised that these changed arrangements were the result of initiatives by the United Kingdom authorities and were not sought by the Australian Depanment of Social Security. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) A joint press statement was issued on 1 1 April 1 978 by the Minister for Construction and the Minister for Social Security endorsing the Australian Standard AS1428 and reaffirming the Government's commitment to an earlier policy of ensuring that Commonwealth public buildings provide access and facilities for disabled people. In the statement it was also said that State and local governments will be encouraged to adopt the new standard in an effort to establish a national building code. The Standing Interdepartmental Committee on Rehabilitation (SIDCOR) has considered the new Standard and is currently examining ways in which improved access can be achieved through existing policies and programs. 
The honourable member would need to ask the respective State ministers for the precise information he is seeking in respect of the adoption of the standard in the States and municipalities. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Yes. 
The word 'realistically' means that a practical view is taken. The instruction mentioned by the honourable member goes on to quote the example that a person maybe genuinely unemployed even though he spends a certain amount of time on odd jobs in the business. 
) As self employment may take many different forms no set of criteria has been laid down to determine if a formerly self employed person is unemployed. Clearly a person who closes down a business and in the course of efforts to find paid employment registers for work with the Commonwealth Employment Service would be regarded as unemployed. At the other end of the scale a person may be seeking paid employment but continues to keep open and operate an unprofitable business and actively seek fresh business. Such a person would not in fact be unemployed. 
Categorically it is not a prerequisite that a self employed person (a) cease advertising for work (b) surrender licences which give him self employed status and (c) sell his equipment and tools, in order to qualify for unemployment benefit. However the performance of any or all of these actions would be matters that, taken into consideration with the other circumstances of the particular case, would indicate that the person was unemployed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Whilst my Department has completed a preliminary analysis of the Report of the Australian Government Committee of Inquiry into Chiropractic, Osteopathy. Homeopathy and Naturopathy, the Government has not yet determined its attitude to the recommendations contained in the Report. 
The matter of conditions under which these groups may practise is one for consideration by the respective State Governments. These aspects and the report mentioned were discussed at recent meetings of the Federal and State Health Ministers. 
Further discussion may well be necessary after the States have settled their views. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At 20 March 1978 an estimated 1,346,400 Social Security pensioners were holders of pensioner health benefit cards. This figure includes age, invalid and widow pensioners, and recipients of wife's pension. Not included in this figure are those pensioners holding pensioner health benefit cards who are paid by the Department of Veterans' Affairs. 
-by leave- In his Budget Speech, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  advised that changes will be made to the health insurance arrangements from 1 November this year. Before outlining the proposals in more detail, it would be appropriate if I commented briefly on the recent history leading to these changes. 
Background to changes 
The House will recall that the Government in 1976 made certain modifications to Medibank and renegotiated the hospital cost-sharing agreements with the States. Although Medibank provided universal health insurance cover, it did so in a way which was open-ended and costly. Health costs were escalating at an alarming rate, and when the Government took office it was apparent that modifications to the scheme were necessary in order to reduce this rapid acceleration. 
As recently as May this year, I announced on behalf of the Government further modifications designed to reduce excessive use of medical services and to rationalise the use of hospital resources. The changes to Medibank which became effective on 1 October 1976 and the subsequent amendments have resulted in a significant decline in the rate of acceleration of health costs. This is confirmed by figures which were released earlier this year. 
The figures, announced in March, indicated that in relation to expenditure, including capital, on a financial year basis, the rise in health costs of 27.1 per cent in 1975-76 had been slowed to 19.7 per cent in 1976-77. 
The figures also showed that the rate of increase in health expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product has been slowed. Further statistical information on these matters will be available in due course. 
Nevertheless, the rate of increase of health costs has continued to be unacceptably high. In addition, although the existing arrangements have been achieving their original purpose, they are none-the-less complex and involve the imposition of a high degree of compulsion on the individual. Indeed the cost of health insurance premiums has become uncomfortably high for many people. 
Because of these factors, the Government has continued its review of the health insurance system. In October last year, I asked the Hospitals and Health Services Commission to review the financing of health services in Australia. The Commission's report, 'A Discussion Paper on Paying for Health Care', was tabled in this House on 1 5 March this year. That report was one important component of the very comprehensive reconsideration of the health insurance system undertaken by the Government in recent months. 
Our review has pointed to an obvious fact: That to maintain a balance between the numbers of health insurance levy payers and those privately insured- an essential element in the existing scheme's strategy to contain costs- clearly the levy rate could not be held at its present level much longer. 
A further complexity has emerged because of the different health cost structures in different States, and the consequent variation in private insurance rates, which suggest a need to examine the imposition of different levy rates in different States. This, of course, could not be countenanced in a federal levy. Accordingly, we reached the conclusion that, rather than make any adjustments to the health insurance levy, it was more practical and desirable to introduce a new and better Medibank system by abandoning the levy and introducing a new Commonwealth medical benefit and other changes. 
Summary of changes 
Let me now summarise the major features of the changes: 
As announced by the Treasurer, the health insurance levy will be abolished. 
The Commonwealth will pay a new universal medical benefit from Consolidated Revenue. 
This new Commonwealth benefit, to cover 40 per cent of schedule medical fees with a maximum patient contribution of $20 for any one service where the schedule fee is charged, will be paid through private health insurance funds, including Medibank Private. This is not to say that where the doctor charges in excess of the schedule fee the patient will be denied the advantage of the universal Commonwealth medical benefit. 
Medical insurance premiums should fall considerably for comparable levels of cover. 
The present compulsion on every Australian to pay for one type of health insurance or another will be removed, although those people currently covered by Medibank Standard will need to consider whether they wish to insure for their present level of benefits. 
Private health funds, including Medibank Private, will offer medical benefits in addition to the new Commonwealth benefit, and will continue to provide hospital benefits. 
The funds will be given considerable freedom and flexibility to devise attractive benefit packages. 
Accommodation in standard wards of public hospitals, with treatment by doctors engaged by the hospital, will continue to be available free of charge to those who are not privately insured for hospital care. 
Bulk billing of Public Health Benefit pensioners and their dependants who are not privately insured for medical benefits will continue as at present. As previously announced* the new concept of bulk billing for socially disadvantaged patients will be introduced. 
Subsidies for hospital-only insurance will be discontinued. The subsidy of $ 1 6 per occupied bed day paid to private hospitals will remain. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The direct cost incurred by the Department of Health in actions taken against  Mr W.  F. Toomer in 1 974 and 1 977 is approximately $13,700. This figure includes counsel fees and costs of transcription of evidence in appeal hearings held during September/October 1974 and October 1977, fares and travelling allowance for Departmental representatives on the Appeal Boards and the costs associated with the transfers of  Mr Toomer  and his family. Departmental officers were involved in these actions as part of their normal duties but because records have not been maintained which would enable the time commitment of these officers to the case to be identified, an accurate costing of the proportion of salaries attributable to these actions cannot be provided. The Department continued to pay  Mr Toomer's  normal salary during the periods of his suspension from duty and the total salary paid to him during those periods was approximately $17,600. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. The Government decided early in 1977 that all Commonwealth employee food services would be operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. Handover of these services to the company was completed on 13 November 1977. However, in 1976-77 the only cafeteria operated by my Department was the Phillip Offices Department of Health Canteen, Woden, ACT. 
Commonwealth employee food services are required to operate on a self-supporting financial basis, within the division of costs prescribed in Treasury (Finance) Directions, Section 8. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 8 November 1977  (Hansard,  pages 3024 and 3026) in answer to two questions without notice I fully disclosed the substance of communications between the various parties which led to the temporary deferment of the screening program in Queensland. 
The honourable member will no doubt be aware that the teams moved back into Queensland during the latter pan of May 1978. 
The delays that have resulted from the temporary deferment of the screening program in Queensland are: approximately eleven days screening time deferred until later, resulting from the decision that the teams should move to New South Wales and continue their screening survey there. the consequential need to await the end of the wet season before resuming activities in Queensland. 
As against these delays, it should be noted that survey and screening activities continued in New South Wales and extensive surgical procedures have been carried out throughout Australia. 
The program has not been curtailed. 
Officials of the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists estimate that the following additional expenditure was incurred because of the temporary deferment: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that the game eggs were brought into Australia in hand luggage in a wicker-type basket with shaving gear. The eggs were not declared by the traveller concerned on his Customs declaration form. The hand luggage concerned was not included in baggage inspected at the Customs barrier at Brisbane airport. It is not practicable to inspect the baggage of all travellers entering Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
498 officers and employees of the Department of Health have their home telephone rentals or charges fully or partially paid by the Department. These are staff who must be able to be contacted by telephone outside of normal hours of duty in relation to special services provided by the Department, and for emergencies. These include: medical and para-medical services at hospitals and medical centres in the Northern Territory; quarantine clearances of aircraft and ships; diagnostic pathology services to hospitals and medical practitioners at 1 5 country centres throughout Australia. 
$78,900. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Hospital admissions in the Northern Territory are not statistically categorised in a way that could confirm the honourable member's statement. However, statistics from the Northern Territory hospitals in 1976 indicate that 19.65 per cent of total hospital separations related to the conditions mentioned by the honourable member. 
It is believed that many of the admissions to hospital are associated with alcohol or drug misuse but detailed information is not available. 
The safe limit of alcohol use is generally accepted as 40 grams per day with 80 grams per day seen as a hazardous level. Adult male average consumption in the Northern Territory is 48.9 grams per day which would indicate that many may be drinking at a dangerous level. 
(a) The percentage of Aboriginal income spent on alcohol varies from community to community. The few figures available for the Northern Territory vary from 5 per cent on Maningrida outstations to 27 per cent at Bamyili and 50 per cent at Oenpelli. 
While statistics are not available it is considered that the level of clinical alcoholism would be well below this rate. Problem 'binge' or episodic drinkers would be likely to reach the level stated in many communities. Unless this group can modify its drinking behaviour there is a danger of a higher level of clinical alcoholism developing. 
Yes. However it would appear that alcohol abuse is mainly a means of escape from a depressed physical, social and economic environment. It is obvious that this form of escape mechanism adds to the severity of the problem being faced. 
No. Some element of control over the provision of alcohol in Aboriginal communities exists in the permit system where permits are only issued with the approval of the local Aboriginal council. Other Aboriginal communities have decided either that they wish to be dry or that limits are to be placed on the type and quantity of alcohol on sale. Some communities, using legal means, have caused storekeepers to lose liquor licences. In some instances Aboriginal communities have made arrangements with local liquor sales outlets for restrictions on the type and quantity of alcohol sales. Following a number of recent reports on alcohol problems faced by Aboriginals, the Northern Territory Legislative Council has sought Aboriginal viewpoints on the development of new liquor legislation. 
6 ) The development of liquor outlets in the wake of both mining development and the expansion of tourist areas has meant that many Aboriginals have easier access to alcohol supplies; this has led in some instances to increases in alcohol abuse. While this is unfortunate, prohibition either by direct legal measures or by the restriction of sales outlets is not a long-term solution to the problem. People must develop attitudes and behavioural patterns that allow them to cope with such social dangers as the availability of alcohol and this is essential for all Australians not merely Aboriginals. 
I am willing to negotiate on any matter relating to the health of Aboriginals. Arrangements have been made for me to discuss with other Ministers the final report on alcohol problems of Aboriginals prepared by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. My Department has also been involved in discussions on the control of alcohol and the protection of Aboriginal interests in the new liquor legislation now being prepared in the Northern Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because detailed accounting records are no longer available for the years 1962 to 1972 it is not possible to provide the details requested for this period. 
Details of the claims for payments made by individual aircraft operators for matters related to the provision of health services in the Northern Territory during each financial year since 1972-73 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission; Capital Territory Health Commission; Health Insurance Commission: 
Fawnmac' group of companies comprising: 
Fawns and McAllan Pty Ltd 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of the recent press report concerning alleged views of the GROW organisation on drug education. The claim that the Federal Government's National Drug Education Program is doing more harm than good is not in accordance with the true situation. Demands from all sectors of the community are increasing for the programs, which are conducted by Federal and State Health authorities. 
The Commonwealth Government, in 1977-78, provided $825,000 for the National Program which is developed, coordinated and evaluated by the Drug Education SubCommittee of the National Standing Control Committee on 
Drugs of Dependence. The Sub-Committee comprises Federal and State Health education administrators as well as members with special expertise in the education, management and law enforcement fields and has developed a national approach to drug education. 
This approach stresses the fact that all drugs can cause harm depending upon the dose taken, the frequency of use, the kind of individual and the setting in which the drug is taken. 
The Drug Education Sub-Committee considers that the provision of information on drugs is only one aspect of an education program. It recommends that drug education be conducted in the broad context of health education with emphasis on personal relationships, lifestyles, decision-making and 'alternatives' to drugs. The National Program follows the principles advocated by the World Health Organization and UNESCO for effective drug education. 
Developments, both local and overseas, associated with all aspects of drugs of dependence are closely watched by my Department and up-to-date information from authoritative sources is provided in various publications for use by people working in related areas as well as the public. 
You can be assured that there is no substance in the alleged views of the GROW organisation concerning the Federal Government's Drug Education Program. 
Drugs: Allegations against Australian Broadcasting Commission (Question No. 1410) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
28 February 1978. 
At its 85th Session, June 1978, the National Health and Medical Research Council stated: 
Lead content of petrol 
Council noted available information, including the report Motor Spirit- Octane Ratings and Lead Additives' prepared by the National Energy Advisory Committee, February 1978 and a paper issued recently by the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries, related to lead in petrol. Council saw no reason to modify its previous recommendations on the lead content of petrol. 
The previous recommendations, made at the Council's 77th Session in November 1973 related to quantitative limits to the concentration of lead in petrol. 
Council considered available data on the effect of human health of the emissions of lead from motor vehicles. 
Council recommended, pending the results of further studies on the biological effects of lead that measures be adopted to ensure that emissions of lead from motor vehicles are not increased. To satisfy this requirement, Council recommended that the concentration of lead in petrol be limited to: 
0.60 gram per litre (3-month average) with a maximum of0.84 gram per litre as from1 January 1974; 
0.50 gram per litre (3-month average) with a maximum reading of 0.60 gram per litre for any one sample as from1 January 1975. 
Council recognised the possible need for further progressive reductions in the concentrations of lead in petrol in order to ensure that lead emissions from motor vehicles are contained at existing levels; however, Council agreed that a valid projection of this need could not be made until developments in the uses of alternative energy sources and the viability of the lead filter are made known. 
The emissions of lead from motor vehicles means the total mass emission of lead emitted into the atmosphere by the total population of motor vehicles in Australia. 
Of the 45 papers and reports studied in the past year by Council's ad hoc Subcommittee on Lead in Petrol, 33 were of Australian origin and 12  from  overseas. They included: 5th Report, the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
February 1978 report of the National Energy Advisory Committee. 
Papers drawn up under the aegis of the Australian Environment Council. 
Papers prepared by specialist committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
Papers prepared by State government departments and Universities, by Australian industries and other interested organisations. 
Papers and reports from Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and America. 
Pesticides in Foodstuffs (Question No. 1530) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The NHMRC carried out such a survey in 1 970 and has since 1 973 carried out similar surveys annually. 
The report of the 1975 Survey, which was accepted by Council at the 83rd Session in September 1977, was published in the report of that Session. 
All laboratory work has been completed for the 1976 Survey. The results are being processed and will be presented to Council in the near future. 
Delays in the analysis of the samples from the Surveys have occurred in the laboratory normally undertaking the work because of staff shortages. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
December 1976. 
Information had become available from the Environmental Protection Agency in the United States of America that exposure to leptophos in food had caused the death of water buffalo and other species and that there were indications that neurological effects may have occurred in workers involved in the manufacture, packaging and application of the substance. 
Although the matter was under consideration, the voluntary withdrawal of the substance by the company marketing it in Australia rendered the need for further action by Council unnecessary. 
See (3). 
In November 1972 Council had recommended that leptophos be included in Schedule 7 of the Uniform Poisons Standard with the restriction that it be 'available only to licensed pest control operators, bona fide primary producers for approved pesticide purposes and for research purposes'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Divisions of Occupational Health within the State health authorities and various professional, trade union and employer associations are available for expert advice and /or recommendations in the field of occupational health. Within my Department itself there is an Occupational and Social Health Branch and specialised expertise is also available from the Occupational and Environmental Health Section of the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine which includes six staff who, together with the Professor heading the School, hold honourary academic appointments at the University of Sydney. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'A Place of Dignity', which is based on a survey of homeless people and homeless persons assistance centres. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2)- 
It was brought to my attention this morning that the Leader of the Opposition, either deliberately or accidently, confused the issue on an Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program by suggesting that the new universal Commonwealth medical benefit will cover only $20 for any medical service. This is absolute nonsense. He should know better than that. The new universal Commonwealth medical benefit will cover 40 per cent of the schedule fee. It will ensure that no patient will pay more than $20 for any medical service rendered by a doctor who charges the schedule medical fee. It is a lot of rubbish to suggest that the Government is trying to diddle the people, as the Leader of the Opposition has sought to make out. I repeat that in the case of a service costing, say, $100- I did say this on a radio program this morning- the Commonwealth medical benefit will cover $80 of that fee and the patient will pay $20 if he is not insured for the gap. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of an independent inquiry into the operations and capital works program of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. This report is tabled in substitution for the paper of the same title tabled on 3 1 May 1978. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to increase the penalties that may be imposed upon persons convicted of offences against the quarantine laws of Australia. The existing penalties have remained unchanged for almost a decade and are not now commensurate with the gravity of quarantine offences; nor do they provide an adequate deterrent to persons contemplating a deliberate breach of quarantine. Quarantine breaches should be regarded as particularly serious in view of their possible outcome. Notwithstanding the remarkable success achieved in the world fight against smallpox, many other human diseases continue to pose serious problems overseas. These, and the newly emergent and dangerous viral haemorrhagic fevers, such as lassa fever and marburg virus disease, emphasise the need for continuing vigilance and an effective and responsive quarantine service. 
Honourable members will no doubt know that despite the best efforts of health authorities in the countries concerned, rabies continues its steady spread across Western Europe. We have succeeded in keeping this dreaded disease out of Australia for a century and continue to apply the most rigorous controls on the importation of animals which could be a source of infection. The establishment of this disease in Australia, which could follow an illegal importation of a cat or dog, would have profound effects on all Australians, requiring them to adopt a whole new lifestyle and a change in their attitudes to domestic pets and indigenous animals. 
In the animal and plant health fields, I am sure all honourable members appreciate that Australia's rural production and the advantages we enjoy on overseas markets for our livestock and agricultural products depend critically on our comparative freedom from serious pests and diseases. It has been estimated, for example, that an outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Australia could cost this country up to $600m per annum. Such a disaster would have grave economic and social consequences for all Australians. It has been shown that illegal importation is a most important factor in the world spread of animal and plant diseases. In this regard I refer honourable members to a recent incident in Australia where Newcastle disease was diagnosed in a consignment of illegally imported Indonesian birds. If this disease spread amongst our bird population there would be an immediate and substantial drop in our export earnings and complete disruption of our poultry industry. Prompt action by quarantine authorities in this case averted any spread of the disease from the smuggled birds. Nevertheless, the importance of this incident is well illustrated by overseas experience. A Newcastle disease outbreak in California in 1971-72 involved the destruction of some 12 million birds and cost the American people well over $56m. 
It is only in comparatively recent decades that the natura] quarantine protection afforded by Australia's geographic location has been eroded. The comforting isolation of our island position and the natural barriers of time and distance have become less relevant as transport has become speedier and more flexible, and trade and travel have increased, particularly from areas where many exotic diseases are well established. In the face of these developments, honourable members will know that conventional entry of persons, animals and goods into Australia is rigorously controlled. No country can guarantee continuing exclusion of all exotic diseases. However, the Government is firmly committed to continue all practical measures necessary to minimise the possibility of such diseases being introduced and to maintain the quarantine record which continues to be the envy of other countries. 
Honourable members will be aware from the announcement by my colleague the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on 9 July that the Government has become increasingly concerned at the activities of foreign fishing vessels and others off our northern shores. Any unauthorised landing on the Australian coast constitutes a risk of disease introduction. This factor, coupled with the special problems of distance and remoteness across our northern shores, and our relative proximity to countries where major exotic diseases exist, was a major consideration in the decision announced by my colleague to upgrade Australia's northern surveillance. The new arrangements, which will be implemented as soon as appropriate arrangements can be made, will include a daily aerial search by charter aircraft of the northern coastline between Geraldton in Western Australia and Cairns in Queensland. The purpose of this program, from a quarantine viewpoint, will be to alert quarantine authorities to any matters of quarantine significance and provide a basis for immediate quarantine follow-up where necessary. 
The Government is acutely aware that there is a greater need than ever before to maintain an effective quarantine system and the legislation which provides the framework for that system must be adequate for the task. The Government, however, accepts that a sound quarantine system not only requires tough penalties for quarantine breaches but also must provide a framework which will encourage public co-operation. In this respect, honourable members will know that we have embarked on a comprehensive program of quarantine station development initiated, amongst other things, to facilitate importation of small animals into this country. Extended waiting periods for quarantine station accommodation increase the incentive for illegal importation. 
As an example of the seriousness with which the Government views breaches of quarantine, I draw the attention of honourable members to the proposed maximum penalty in respect of offences against section 50 of the Act. This section prohibits the landing of any imported plants or animals in a place other than a proclaimed port. The Bill proposes to increase the maximum penalty for a breach of that provision from $500 or six months imprisonment to $5,000 or two years imprisonment. As another example, I would draw the attention of honourable members to the proposed maximum penalty provided under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 67 of the Act, which prohibits a person from knowingly bringing into Australia any goods, animals, plants, disease agents, et cetera, in contravention of the Act. Offences of this sort strike at the very foundation of our quarantine barrier and call for an extremely severe penalty. It is proposed therefore that the maximum monetary penalty be increased from $2,000 to $10,000. I have directed my Department to maintain a rigorous approach to quarantine enforcement backed by firm prosecution action where appropriate. All quarantine personnel have been assured that they have the strong support of the Government in carrying out their quarantine duties and responsibilities. 
I now turn to the manner of dealing with offences. At present, offences against section 79, forging documents, and section 83, misleading a quarantine officer, are expressed as indictable offences and cannot be dealt with in a court of summary jurisdiction. In line with provisions in other Acts, the Bill proposes that these offences may be prosecuted in courts of summary jurisdiction and that these courts, when disposing of a matter, be empowered to impose a maximum fine of $2,000 or one year's imprisonment. However the Bill also provides that where an offence may be prosecuted summarily or upon indictment and that prosecution is brought in a court of summary jurisdiction, that court may commit the defendant for trial or, if it is satisfied that it is proper to do so, with the consent of the prosecutor, as well as the defendant, may determine the proceedings summarily. At present, the consent of the defendant only is required. This amendment would protect the right of the prosecution in appropriate cases to require proceedings to be determined in a jurisdiction where higher penalties are available. 
The Bill further provides that the maximum penalty which may be imposed by regulation under the Act be increased from $1,000 to $2,000. Amendments to the penalties applicable for specific offences against the regulations are being prepared. Finally, the Bill provides that the value of goods which cannot be effectively treated and which may be destroyed without prior ministerial approval be increased from $20 to $200, the present $20 limit is administratively inefficient and out of line with present day values. The Bill before the House reflects the Government's firm commitment to an effective quarantine system for Australia. A realistic set of penalties for quarantine breaches is a most important component of this system. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to extend for a further period of 12 months, those provisions of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act which are due to expire on 13 December 1978. This is to allow for full consultation with State governments on future arrangements to meet the needs of homeless people in the light of the experience with the program to date. As honourable members will be aware, the Homeless Persons Assistance Act was introduced in December 1974 on the basis of a report by a working party on homeless men and women. The program has been kept under close review since then, and has been the subject of specific evaluation by the Department of Social Security including careful scrutiny by the homeless persons advisory committees established in each State. A report on the process of evaluation, entitled 'A Place of Dignity' was tabled by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on 9 June 1978. 
The working party on homeless men and women recommended amongst other things, that capital grants totalling up to $5m a year should be made available over a three-year period to voluntary agencies and local and statutory authorities for approved projects- such as night shelters, reception and assessment centres, hostels, flats, day centres, special clinics and detoxification units- in order to upgrade and replace existing inadequate accommodation and to build new facilities for permanently and chronically homeless men and women. The Act provides for capital grants to be made to eligible organisations, which are defined as non-profit organisations, local governing bodies and charitable or benevolent trusts, towards the full cost of purchasing, constructing or renting buildings, including the purchase of furniture and equipment. It also enables the Commonwealth to pay 50 per cent of the salary of a social welfare worker employed at a homeless persons assistance centre. Approved organisations may also be paid a daily subsidy at prescribed rates for each homeless person to whom both food and accommodation are provided, at a rate of 75c a day, and a subsidy of 25c for each meal supplied to non-resident homeless persons. 
For the information of honourable members, capital grants totalling $9.8m have been approved under the Act to date. Of this amount, $3. 5m had been actually expended by 30 June 1978, $3.6m has been allocated for expenditure in 1978-79 and the remaining $2.7m will be carried forward to 1979-80. Expenditure on rental and salary subsidies for the period from 13 December 1974 to 30 June 1978 totalled $646,665. The appropriation for these subsidies in 1978-79 is $285,000. Expenditure under the national welfare fund on accommodation and meal subsidies for the period from 13 December 1974 to 30 June 1978 amounted to $2.6m. Estimated expenditure on these subsidies in 1978-79 is $lm. As at 30 June 1978, financial support was being given towards the running costs of 106 homeless persons centres, with a total bed capacity of 3,410. Subsidy made available in 1977-78 represents 990,759 people assisted. In addition 847,774 meals were served to non-resident homeless people. Salary subsidies were paid for 37 social welfare workers. 
The Government has no doubt about the importance of this program, nor its effectiveness in helping to upgrade the standard of facilities for homeless men and women in many areas of Australia. Complementary to the assistance that has been provided under this program, 76 women's refuges have been approved for funding, at an estimated cost of some $3m this financial year, through the community health program. Because of the involvement of the State governments in many aspects of services for homeless people, the Government has decided that it is appropriate at this stage to extend the Act for a further year, to allow full consultations with the States on future arrangements. This is in line with the spirit of the report of the working party on homeless men and women, which recognised the need for consultation concerning the continued development of service by all levels of government and voluntary agencies to meet the needs of homeless people. 
As honourable members will recall, the Act was extended for a further period of one year from December last, so as to allow time for further development and review. The Government believes that the program is now sufficiently well established to warrant discussion with State governments on their views about the sharing of responsibilities in this area. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to provide for direct matching grants, with the States for a range of home care services, and for the salaries of approved welfare officers employed at or in association with senior citizen's centres. The Bill provides for continuation of subsidy on a $2 for $ 1 basis, for the capital cost of senior citizen's centres. Thus, the Bill gives effect to policies announced at the most recent Premiers Conference which recognise that the State governments are in the best position to assess the requirements for home care services and to determine their priorities accordingly. 
As announced at the Premiers Conference, the new subsidy arrangements are to have effect on and from 1 July 1978 in respect of home care services, and for welfare officer salaries for a salary period commencing on or after 1 July 1978. The States Grants (Home Care) Act was introduced in 1969 on the basis of a recommendation made at the 1968 health Ministers conference. The Act broadly provides three forms of assistance: 
Firstly, for home care service schemes which provide housekeeping and other domestic assistance to aged people in their own homes; secondly, for the building and equipping of senior citizens' centres; and thirdly, for the employment of welfare officers employed by, or in association with, senior citizens ' centres. 
A later amendment to the Act increased the subsidy from one-half to two-thirds of expenditure through the States. The importance of locally based home care and welfare officer services for aged and infirm people is fully recognised by the Government. Indeed, provision is made for significant overall increases in assistance for domiciliary services in this year's Budget. For the states grants home care program overall, there is an increase of 12.28 per cent in the estimates for this financial year, over the expenditure for last financial year. For the home care services component of the program, there has been an 83.5 per cent increase in estimated expenditure for this year over that for the financial year 1975-76, when the Government took office. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table outlining Commonwealth expenditure over the past three years. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197808166_40_0.jpg"></graphic>

Because of the need for continuing constraint in the Government's expenditure, it has not been possible recently to approve new welfare officer positions or new home care services. Nevertheless, there has been a significant expansion of existing services to meet new needs. Further, this particular legislation is but one avenue of Commonwealth financial assistance for those requiring support services to continue to live independently in their own homes. Other important services include meals-on-wheels, subsidised under separate legislation also administered by the Department of Social Security, expenditure on which has increased by nearly 30 per cent in the last three years to an estimated $2.3m this financial year, and domiciliary nursing care programs, which involved Commonwealth expenditure last financial year of $ 10.7m. The estimate for the current financial year is $ 12.1m. It has been suggested in some quarters that the Government is suddenly withdrawing from funding home care services, causing large numbers of aged and infirm people to look to nursing homes and other institutions for help. The fact is that the Commonwealth will continue to match every dollar allocated by the States for approved welfare officer and home care services. 
As I have already indicated, the new arrangements for the program were announced at the time of the Premiers Conference in June, and of course are fully in line with the Government's policy of federalism, which recognises that State and local governments are well placed to assume greater responsibility for locally based programs of this nature. Provided that State governments act responsibly within the framework of the federalism policy, there is no reason to believe that there will be any reduction in the level of welfare officer and home care services. Indeed, it could be anticipated that the States will allot a high priority to these services, which make a contribution to maintaining people in their own homes. There are currently 1 12 welfare officers whose salaries are being subsidised under the States Grants (Home Care) Act. Of this number, more than 100 are employed directly by local governing bodies. The main function of a welfare officer is to provide a link between aged persons living in their own homes and domiciliary and other supportive welfare services. 
The activities and responsibilities of welfare officers vary according to local needs and priorities, but in general include determination of the needs of the aged population and the development of services and facilities to meet these needs; liaison with committees of senior citizens' centres and service clubs for the purpose of establishing or extending the centres' services and facilities; supervision of the services provided; fostering co-operation and liaison among various welfare activities for aged persons and encouraging interest in these activities; and providing an education program which will encourage senior citizens' centres to promote purposeful activities. Home care services which can be subsidised under the legislation include home visiting, laundry and shopping services, home handyman and related home maintenance schemes, housekeeper and other services which complement health or welfare programs designed to enhance the independence of aged and infirm people living at home. 
I am sure that all honourable members will recognise the importance of every encouragement being given to the States to maintain, and as necessary expand, their commitment to the home care program which will encourage independent living of aged and infirm people for as long as possible, and help to reduce the need for people to seek institutional care. As I have shown, it is simply not true that the Commonwealth has in some way absolved itself of responsibility in this field. Rather, the Government is seeking to build on the present partnership with State and local governments in the context of increased overall funding for these services. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to question No. 844 provided the total and payments made to the Reinsurance Trust Fund by (b) registered hospital benefit organisations for the period I October 1976 to 31 December 1977. 
The information provided below is based on net payments to the Reinsurance Trust Fund (that is payments to the Fund less payments from the Fund to the same organisation). The use of net payments to the Reinsurance Trust Fund to determine the per capita effect on members of reinsurance reflects the actual position per head of membership. 
There will be considerable savings to most people in Australia as a result of the changes that will come into force on 1 November 1978, particularly for those people who are paying the maximum Medibank levy at the present time. As from 1 November, all those people paying the Medibank levy will no longer be required to pay the levy because it is being abolished from that date. The maximum amount of Medibank levy being paid by families at the present time is $300 per annum and the single rate is $ 1 50 per annum. Therefore, those people paying the levy will save as a result of its abolition. As from 1 November, all Australians will be eligible to receive a universal medical benefit set at 40 per cent of the schedule fee with a maximum payment by a patient of $20 for any service rendered by a doctor who charges the schedule fee. Of course, in some instances doctors charge more. Nonetheless, that will be the extent of the Commonwealth's contribution. 
Moreover, all Australians will be covered fully for standard hospital accommodation at no cost to them when treated by a doctor engaged by the hospital. Former levy payers will have the choice of taking out medical insurance with a private health fund, including Medibank Private, to insure themselves for the gap- that is, the gap between the 40 per cent and the $20 maximum payment and the 75 per cent and the $10 payment- or simply accept the universal medical benefits cover. The medical premium for medical insurance for a family clearly will be less than the $300 maximum which is paid at the present time. We are making special provisions- they have been announced already- in respect of bulk billing arrangements for pensioners with health benefit cards and for those people in the community who are socially disadvantaged. Generally, the scheme has received a very good reception. From the present time until 1 November the Government will make sure that adequate information is provided to each household to enable people to make the choice as to what suits them best. The one thing that people who receive the standard benefits from Medibank Standard need to understand is that if they do not take additional gap insurance they will be getting only the 40 per cent benefit. We will make sure that they understand that because I do not want people complaining after 1 November that they did not know that the benefit would be less than they now receive from Medibank Standard. But it may be the wish of many people to take a degree of risk themselves. Inherent in the scheme is an opportunity for people to engage voluntarily in an optional deductible. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (i)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Since 1 July 1975, the Capital Territory Health Commission has been issued by the Minister with a directive to provide public hospital services under precisely similar conditions and restraints as have been applied in the States. 
Staff ceilings which have applied to the whole of the Commonwealth Public Service since January 1976 have equally applied to the two public public hospitals in Canberra. The imposition of staff ceilings on these hospitals predated by some months the imposition of staff ceilings applying to hospitals in the States. 
Expenditure by the hospitals conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission is subject to the scrutiny of the 
Department of Finance and the Senate Estimates Committee. 
Expenditure by the hospitals conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission is subject to scrutiny by a Standing Committee in the same way as is the expenditure of hospitals in the States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that records available to the Capital Territory Health Commission show the nursing work force for the last five years to have been: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In this reply, the term 'plants' means living plant material capable of propagation by vegetative means and includes rooted plants, scions, cuttings, budwood, tubers, bulbs or offsets. 
Plant quarantine legislation prohibits the import of certain species of plants, particularly from countries where serious diseases affecting these plants are present. Normally these plants may not be imported except for scientific or other special reasons and under rigid conditions. 
The quarantine legislation also prohibits the importation of a number of specified plants except where the permission of the Director of Quarantine has been obtained. That permission may be expressed to be subject to certain conditions. Many of the commercial fruit crops covering more than 20 distinct genera as well as proclaimed weeds and a number of cactus genera fall within this category. 
All other plants not specifically covered by quarantine legislation are admitted under the general provisions of the plant quarantine regulations. These regulations require a permit to be issued prior to import. Generally, these plants undergo a period of quarantine and are then released provided they are free of pests and disease. 
A separate set of quarantine conditions applies to the importation of seed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Yes. There is no substantiated scientific evidence that 2,4-D is linked to human birth defects. I have arranged for a copy of the statement issued by the National Health and Medical Research Council at its 85th Session in June 1978 referring to this substance to be placed in the Parliamentary Library for the information of honourable members. Because there is no evidence at present that 2,4D is linked to human birth defects, I am not proposing to ask for further restrictions on this chemical at the present time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The principal programs administered by my Department under which funds are made available within the St George electorate are: the Community Health Program the Home Nursing Subsidy Scheme the Hospitals Development Program; and the Australian School Dental Scheme. 
I have set out below relevant details relating to the operations of these programs within the St George electorate. These details include information on identifiable projects, located in adjoining electorates, whose operations overlap into the St George electorate. 
It is true that agreement has not yet been reached at the working party level. The working party consists of representatives of the Department of Health and of the health insurance funds. There have been at least two meetings of that working party and a lot of investigation and research has been undertaken to establish a reasonable agency fee for the dispensing of the universal Commonwealth benefit to those people who choose not to insure privately after 1 November. 
The health insurance fund representatives have sought an agency fee far in excess of the agency fee presently being paid by the Health Insurance Commission to health insurance organisations. The present fee is $1.52 per claim or 61.3 cents per service. No approach has been made by the health insurance fund concerned to vary this fee or to cancel the agency. One would assume therefore that the agency fee being paid by the Health Insurance Commission is fair and reasonable. The Government has therefore offered a similar figure to the health insurance funds for acting as agents of the Commonwealth in dispensing the universal Commonwealth medical benefit which provides for a refund of 40 per cent of the schedule fee or for the patient to pay no more than $20 for a service where the doctor charges the schedule fee. 
We need to finalise arrangements before the end of this week because we have to draft legislation and introduce it as soon as possible. Because the Government needs to settle the question of agency arrangements it has asked the funds to respond to this offer by noon on Friday. If this offer is not accepted by the funds the Government will proceed as a matter of urgency to make alternative arrangements. One would hope that the funds would take up the opportunity offered to them to provide this service to those people who will not be privately insured for medical benefits after 1 November. The Government recognises the important role of the health insurance funds and the contact they have with people at the grass roots level. Before taking any further decision in the matter I await their response. I understand that the working party will be meeting on Thursday and I will seek to talk with the health fund representatives on Thursday but I want an answer no later than noon on Friday. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
The review of Australia's quarantine arrangements undertaken by officers of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the subsequent report of Parliament (Parliamentary Paper 321/77) indicated that Australia's present quarantine controls are generally effective and that current administrative arrangements at Federal and State levels are basically sound. The findings of the review did not indicate that a total review of existing legislation was necessary. Action taken in response to the recommendations of the review is set out in my reply to Question No. 701(Hansard, Page 3377 of 8 June 1978). 
There is a risk that diseases and pests could be introduced into northern Australia by unauthorised landings of foreign fishing vessels. The following steps have been taken: 
As announced by my colleague, the Minister for Transport on 9 July 1978, surveillance of Australia's territorial waters is being enhanced to take into account the need to enforce Australia's fishing laws when the 200 mile fishing zone is proclaimed and to provide a much improved basis for detecting and responding to matters of quarantine significance, including possible unauthorised landings. 
Reported or suspected unauthorised landings by any foreign vessel are followed up as soon as possible by quarantine authorities. Landing sites and any surrounding area likely to have been visited by unauthorised persons are carefully searched for material brought ashore and likely to be a source of disease introduction. Any such material is incinerated to minimise disease risk. Where possible, the vessel is examined for signs of insect infestation and treated where necessary. 
Monitoring programs are carried out where possible by designated persons for key areas of northern Australia. Specific programs operate for exotic insects and in particular for fruit fly and screwworm. The programs are reviewed regularly and adjusted where necessary to meet current needs. 
My Department is represented on various Commonwealth/State committees which have developed and are developing contingency plans to cope with any introductions of diseases or pests formerly not encountered. The plans are approved by the Standing Committee on Agriculture and the Australian Agricultural Council. At the first reports of any such introduction an expert Consultative Committee of Commonwealth and State experts is convened to undertake all necessary investigations and recommend on specific measures to be taken. 
(a), (b) and (c) Quarantine policies take into account the likelihood that exotic pests and diseases could be introduced with any imported goods, and are not necessarily affected by changing trade patterns. 
Technical information produced in Australia and overseas regarding the identification and control of exotic plant or animal diseases and pests is maintained by the Department of Health and State Departments of Agriculture. Commonwealth and State officers communicate regularly and as required with each other and with overseas exports in areas of particular concern to Australia. Guidelines for exotic disease and pest eradication programs and means of implementation have been formulated and are regularly reviewed by committees of Commonwealth and State experts. Illustrated, descriptive material suitable for distribution is also prepared where appropriate. (4)I will arrange for officers of my Department to investigate this matter in consultation with appropriate State authorities. 
Herbicides: Possible Connection with Birth Defects (Question No. 1228) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (4) The information requested by the honourable member is not readily available within the Depanment and would take a significant amount of time and resources to compile not only within the Central Office of my Depanment but also in the various State Offices and 'outrider' institutions. 
Unfortunately I am unable to commit the required resources to this task at this time. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Research facilities for monitoring the social impact of policies exist in all Divisions of the Department's Central 
Office. They are supported by monitoring facilities in State and regional offices. Evaluation of the social impact of programs is the responsibility of the department's Central Office. 
All major programs are continuously monitored and evaluated through the collection of appropriate statistical information, surveys and reports from such organisations as the Consultative Councils and Homeless Persons Advisory Committees. Specific evaluation studies are undertaken from time to time. For example, at present the following programs are among those being evaluated: the Family Day Care Scheme of the Children 's Services Program the role of the Aged Persons Hostels in the Aged Persons Welfare Program the pilot Welfare Rights Program the pilot Citizens Information Centre Program. 
to (5) It is not possible to separate the financial and staffing resources employed on monitoring and evaluation from the resources used for other program administration and policy development activity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The limited quantities of waste metal and glass generated by my Department and statutory authorities under my control do not warrant special recycling arrangements. I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by my colleague the Minister for Administrative Services to Question No. 1437 (House of Representatives Hansard, page 334,15 August 1978) in respect of waste paper generally. However, two of the statutory authorities under my control make their own arrangements for the recycling of waste paper. The Capital Territory Health Commission uses the facilities of the Department of the Capital Territory and the Health Insurance Commission has the bulk of its waste paper treated at the Australian Pulp and Paper Mill, Broadford, Victoria, Australian Paper Manufacturers Limited, Petrie, Queensland and Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd., Matraville, New South Wales. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories incinerate some of their waste paper, some is shredded and used as packing material and the remainder is recycled through charity collectors. 
See(l). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Products containing the soil fumigant, 1,2- dibromo-3-chloropropane (DBCP) were voluntarily withdrawn from sale in Australia by Dow Chemicals (Australia) Ltd and the Shell Company of Australia Ltd in August 1977 following reports from the United States of America of a possible connection between DBCP and low sperm counts among male workers involved in its manufacture and formulation. 
No. The voluntary action by the local companies made this unnecessary. 
See (3). 
The National Health and Medical Research Council does not grant formal approval for the use of any pesticide. It recommends maximum residue limits which are forwarded to the States and Territories for incorporation into appropriate legislation at the discretion of the State or Territorial Registration Authorities. The first recommendation relating to residue limits was made by Council in 1966 in respect of this substance. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Yes. 
No particular time was given. 
Home Units for Aged Persons at Yea, Victoria (Question No. 1700) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) and (2) A capital grant of $21,645 under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act has been approved for the Country Women's Association (Yea Branch) towards the cost of constructing two self-contained units for aged persons' accommodation at Railway Place, Yea, which is adjacent to Francis Street, Yea. The Act provides for the formal documentation of the grant by an agreement at the discretion of the Director-General of Social Security. The usual practice is that a standard form of agreement, embodying the terms and conditions of the grant, is drawn and negotiated with the organisation when the grant is authorised. 
Inquiry into Use of Drugs: Consideration of Use of Nicotine and Alcohol (Question No. 1702) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. However these statements were made in the context of an inquiry into the ' Non-Medical Use of Drugs '. 
The terms of reference of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs relate primarily to illicit trafficking in and production of the so-called 'illegal' drugs. 
The terms were arrived at some twelve months ago after consultation between the Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General, so as to minimise over-lapping with the South Australian and New South Wales inquiries. In view of the above I would consider it inappropriate to ask the Attorney-General to extend the terms of reference of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry to include nicotine and alcohol. 
Ethnic Liaison Officer, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (Question No. 1707; 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The Social Services Act provides for age pensions, granted to people in Australia, to continue to be paid to pensioners who go abroad provided that their eligibility for the Australian pension does not depend on reciprocal arrangements with other countries. However, supplementary assistance and fringe benefits are not available to pensioners overseas. 
The general principle that age pensions may not be granted to people outside Australia was relaxed in March 1974 to the extent that an age pension may be granted to a claimant who has not resided in Australia since 7 May 1973, but had lived 30 years or more in Australia, was aged 60 years or more (55 in the case of a woman) at the time of leaving Australia and is in special need of financial assistance. 
By virtue of reciprocal agreements, people who are temporarily in the United Kingdom or New Zealand may be granted age pensions if they would be eligible to receive an age pension in Australia. 
A pension granted to a former resident who has returned and is residing in Australia is not payable overseas if the pensioner leaves Australia within 12 months after he last returned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1976-77-9; I977-78-Nil. 
At 30 June 1976, 1 12 C.S.L. products were listed. During 1976-77, 6 products were added and 3 were delisted. During 1977-78, 8 products were added and 1 was delisted. 
Nil. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) to (4) I am advised that the information sought by the honourable member is not readily available and would require the use of considerable staff resources at the expense of normal duties, and therefore, I am not in a position to provide an answer to the question 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A number of studies have been carried out concerning the interaction of marihuana with other drugs, including alcohol. Unfortunately, results have frequently not been comparable and have consequently been open to varying interpretations. Interaction effects are highly complex and much more research needs to be carried out before accurate assessments can be made. 
Yes, evidence from various research studies indicate quite strongly that marihuana impairs driving ability and related skills. However, it has not been possible so far to provide an accurate correlation between cannabis alkaloid (can.nabinoid) levels in the blood and impairment of such skills. 
The problems involved in measuring the concentration of cannabinoids in the body (i.e. tetrahydrocannabinol and/or its metabolites) are far greater than with the relatively simple substance alcohol. At present, there is no simple method of carrying out such measurements. Research methods available include immunoassay, chromatography and mass spectroscopy, all of which are complex and require expensive equipment. 
I am advised that there is conflicting medical opinion as to whether the wide spread use of marihuana may produce an increase in psychiatric disorders which are currently latent. There is no doubt that psychiatric disturbances of various types and degrees have been observed from time to time in chronic marihuana users, but it is arguable as to whether marihuana has been responsible, either directly or indirectly, for precipitating such disorders. 
Yes, cigarette smoking became popular towards the end of the nineteenth century so 40-50 years is a conservative estimate. 
This is not known. The effects of pyrolysis of marihuana are under investigation. While there is no firm evidence of carcinogenesis at present, it would not be surprising if carcinogenic substances were produced during the smoking of marihuana. 
Evidence available indicates the probability of some smokers of the cannabis plant becoming users or heavy users of the resin and/or oil. However, the majority of social users smoking marihuana do not appear to progress to the use of the more potent product cannabis oil. 
There is still controversy over whether chronic marihuana use causes a condition which results in loss of initiative and ambition. 
Yes. 
New drugs which are imported are controlled by the Commonwealth Department of Health in terms of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations to ensure that they comply with strict safety standards. Controls over locally produced therapeutic substances are subject to the requirements administered by the State Health authorities. Liaison is maintained between the Commonwealth and State authorities to facilitate uniformity of approach in dealing with these matters. 
At present, there are three Royal Commissions which include marihuana in their investigations. If it is found that marihuana has a therapeutic use and the Government endorses this finding, then any supplies of the drug entering the country for an approved therapeutic use will be subject to the same stringent safety requirements. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The interdepartmental committee reported in July 1977. 
Yes. 
Yes. In relation to arrangements for tabling I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to Senate question No. 333, page 351, Senate  Hansard,  23 August 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Government Analytical Laboratories. 
Delays have been experienced due to staff shortages However, the existing staff is expected to be able to complete the analysis of all outstanding samples before the commencement of the survey proposed for 1979. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Instructions to officers of the Department of Social Security state: 
It has long been the policy in the administration of the Social Services Act that a man and woman, not married, but living together and sharing the economies and advantages of a legally married couple, will not be accorded benefits greater than those granted a married couple, (see also Instruction 8.2). 
In these circumstances it should be noted that a widow's pension cannot be granted to a claimant, while she is living with a man as hrs "de facto" wife. Similarly payment of widow's pension cannot continue to a widow pensioner who commences to live with a man on this basis. On cessation of the de facto relationship the wife may again qualify for a widow's pension immediately. However, a check should be made that the original qualifications for widow's pension still exist, e.g. husband still in a mental hospital. 
Instruction 8.2 mentioned above is as follows: 
The definition of "wife" in Section 18 of the Social Services Act includes a "dependent female" so that a woman coming within the definition of a "dependent female" is treated, for pension purposes, as if she were the legal wife of the claimant or pensioner. 
A "dependent female" means a woman who has lived with a man as his wife on a bona fide domestic basis, though not legally married to him '. 
Where a domestic arrangement does exist, in the case of age and invalid pensions and unemployment and sickness benefits the Social Services Act provides for assessment at the married rate. In the case of widows pension and supporting parent's benefit the Act precludes the payment of any assistance. 
I know that the Minister for Social Security is most concerned about the overpayment of benefits to social welfare beneficiaries. I understand that action has been taken to overcome the problem identified. Inquiries are being carried out into other administrative arrangements that might be necessary. I am not completely aware of all the steps that have been taken. However, I will refer the question to the Minister. I am sure that she will provide the honourable member with a detailed answer in due course. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The study is one of many studies which have been undertaken in the USA and which examine the question of whether there are public or occupational health risks associated with very low level exposure to ionising radiation. Some of these studies report positive findings, and others the majority do not. In general, the reason for this is that the risk factors are extremely small and the groups studied do not produce enough cases for meaningful comparison with the general population. 
The study is considered to have flaws in this and other aspects, and does not in itself provide any basis for modifying current public health standards for radiation protection. 
) Because the risks are so low, a major international long term study is currently being set up to pool world wide information, and Australia will contribute to this study through the Australian Radiation Laboratory. As this study progresses, its conclusions will undoubtedly be reflected in the formulation and implementation of radiation protection standards, both in this country and abroad. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The study is one of many studies which have been undertaken in the USA and which examine the question of whether there are public or occupational health risks associated with very low level exposure to ionising radiation. Some of these studies report positive findings, and others the majority do not. In general, the reason for this is that the risk factors are extremely small and the groups studied do not produce enough cases for meaningful comparison with the general population. 
The study is considered to have flaws in this and other respects, and does not in itself provide any basis for modifying current public health standards for radiation protection. 
Because the risks are so low, a major international long term study is currently being set up to pool world wide information, and Australia will contribute to this study through the Australian Radiation Laboratory. As this study progresses, its conclusions will undoubtedly be reflected in the formulation and implementation of radiation protection standards, both in this country and abroad. 
in reply- The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  used phrases such as 'it is an example of bad government'. Who is the honourable member to say that the record of this Government is bad? Quite clearly the former Government proved to be absolutely disastrous in the field of economic management. 
-Well, the Labor Government started the great snowball rolling down the hill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! 

The Labor Government wrecked the efficiency of industry and the economy of Australia. 
-I repeat for the benefit of the honourable member that the Government has made a firm offer to health insurance funds to pay $1.52 a claim to dispense the 40 per cent Commonwealth medical benefit to uninsured people. This offer, of course, is also available to Medibank. It is available until noon on Friday. I have chosen midday on Friday because if the funds are not prepared to accept that offer- it is a matter for the funds- obviously some other urgent arrangements will need to be made. So the Government is sticking firmly to the offer that it has made to the funds. 
As to the second part of the question relating to a differential payment which might reflect the different administrative costs that may be apparent as between the States, the Government has made a flat, firm offer. We are not taking into account the differences of cost that may exist as between the States. 
I will have to take that question on notice because it is more complex than it appears to be on the surface. We have made a simple, firm offer of $1.52 to handle a claim. We base that figure, of course, upon the present experience of the Medibank organisation. The Health Insurance Commission has an agency arrangement with a well known fund in Queensland and is paying $1.52 a claim. There has never been any complaint or objection by the fund to the level of the agency fee. So the Government has assumed that that is a reasonable figure. Under the arrangement that exists between the Health Insurance Commission and that fund there is provision for an indexation arrangement to take into account the cost movements that occur. The Government will offer funds that may be prepared to co-operate a contractual arrangement which would undoubtedly take into account the movements in costs that could occur. But that will be a matter for negotiation with the funds that wish to enter into contractual arrangement with the Government. 
I repeat that the offer remains in force until noon tomorrow. If there is no response from the funds by that time obviously we will move very quickly to other agency arrangements. We have had a number of offers. We have received one in particular from the Australian Postal Commission. The Commission, through the Minister for Post and Telecommunications has approached me with an offer to act as an agent for the Commonwealth in the dispensing of the universal Commonwealth benefit. 
I do not know how many people will weep tears of blood because we are calling upon the States to make a little greater contribution towards the care of people within the States. It is a fact, of course, that since this Government came to office the new Commonwealth-State financial relationships have enabled every State government to balance its Budget without any difficulty. The States are far better off. I would be very interested to know whether the New South Wales Government will in fact live up to its responsibilities. We have thrown down the gauntlet and we will see how honest the Government of New South Wales is. We will see whether it will meet its share of responsibility for the care of homeless people. 
The Federal Government subsidy has in fact been reduced by one-sixth of the total FederalState expenditure. To give an example, for an expenditure of $24,000, under the 1977-78 Federal-State funding arrangements the Commonwealth met $8,000 and the State government $16,000. Under this arrangement $12,000 will be met by the Commonwealth and $12,000 by the State. So the States will be up for an extra $4,000, or one-sixth of $24,000. Time is being wasted in this House by a speech such as the one we have just heard from this character, who is trying to stir up the aged persons of this country with a lot of absolute rubbish. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  would be about the greatest stirrer ever to enter this Parliament and undoubtedly he has a lot to answer for. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting before dinner we were talking about the new arrangements which will apply under the States Grants (Home Care) Act and the way in which the funding of the program will apply during this financial year. At the Premiers Conference in June and, of course, since then, it has been made perfectly clear to the State governments that the Government, in line with its policy on federalism, recognises that both State and local governments are well placed to assume greater responsibility for locally based programs of this nature. We expect both the State governments and, to a lesser extent, local governments, to play their responsible roles in assisting in the provision of services for people, such as the aged and the infirm, who require assistance from the community. Providing the State governments act with responsibility within the framework of the federalism policy there is no reason to believe that there will be any reduction in the level of welfare officer and home care services. Indeed, it could be anticipated that the States will allot a high priority to these services. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Melbourne who interjects will agree that the Victorian Government has accorded that sort of priority to people in his State. 
They, of course, will be only too willing to make a contribution to help people in their own homes. For the benefit of honourable members, particularly the one who interjects, I repeat an example which I gave earlier. The Federal Government's subsidy is in fact reduced by one-sixth of the total Federal-State expenditure. I give a simple example to the honourable member. I hope he will listen because it might help him to understand the equity which is involved in this arrangement. 
-Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  The honourable gentleman is a gentleman. I am sure that he will appreciate the value of the example which I am about to give. For instance, let us look at a program costing $24,000. Under the 1977-78 arrangements the StateCommonwealth contribution was based on the ratio of, say, $8,000 to $16,000. But under this arrangement the ratio will be $12,000 to $12,000. The States will have to pay for an additional $4,000 out of a total grant of $24,000. This means that a State is contributing one-sixth more than it would have done in the previous year. I go to this trouble to try to assure people who may have been disturbed by some of the outrageous and exaggerated statements which were made about the Commonwealth Government deserting the needs of the aged and the infirm under this program. That is not true. We are trying to make sure, under the new federalism arrangement, that both the Commonwealth and the State governments, and to a lesser extent the local government authorities, will live up to their responsibilities at the grass roots level in assisting those people in the community who are not capable of caring for themselves. 
I think that is a fairly reasonable proposition. After all, we should be working in a team relationship. I appeal to honourable members opposite to give support to the programs, for one of which they are largely responsible and for one of which a former Liberal-National Country Party government was responsible. They were two very worthwhile programs. What we need more than anything else is community cooperation. That co-operation should flow through to the Commonwealth, State and local government representatives so that we get a total community and co-operative approach to make sure that the resources which are available in a community are spent upon those who most need support. 

 - Mr Chairman, just briefly I think I should respond to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  to whom I give the benefit of the doubt because I think that he is probably one of the more honest characters of the Opposition. For his own benefit he needs to know that it was a Liberal-National Country Party Government which introduced the States Grants (Home Care) Act in 1969 and the ratio which was imposed at that time was a dollar for dollar as between the Commonwealth and the States. The States were very happy to come in with the Commonwealth, even at that time, to meet the needs of the people. In 1972 the ratio was amended to two-thirds funding by the Commonwealth and one-third by the States. The State governments cannot have it both ways. They want to be involved in a growth tax, they want a share of the income tax collected and they have, in fact, for the first time since the abolition of the income taxation rights for States become eligible to receive 40 per cent of all the income tax collected. So as a matter of justice it was felt that these programs should be brought back to a dollar for dollar basis with the States. No State Minister or State government, whether Liberal Party, Australian Labor Party or National Country Party, has refused by letter to accept its responsibility. From looking at some of the budgets which have been brought down recently I have every reason to believe that the State governments are not going to avoid, run away from or duck their responsibilities to meet the Commonwealth's dollar under the States Grants (Home Care) Act. 
I do not know why we are going on and on. Clearly politicians of all political colours, whether they be Commonwealth or State, recognise the importance of trying to assist those people who cannot help themselves in their own homes. So let us not be holier than thou and believe that all wisdom and all compassion begin and end in this Parliament in Caberra because in most of the State governments and in local government around Australia there are people who are in contact with the ordinary people at the grass roots level and who are only too willing to make a contribution to try to help those less fortunate than themselves. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two seasons were selected in the 1977 National Health and Medical Research Council Market Basket Survey in preference to the four seasons adopted in the previous years in an attempt to reduce transport costs and rationalise analytical workload. With the economies of scale achieved it was possible to examine approximately twice the number of individual foods each dme and broaden the scope of analyses for possible contaminants. 
) March and September were chosen for sample collections since this allowed the best seasonal variation compatible with the time limitations imposed by the scholastic year at the East Sydney Technical College where the preliminary food sample processing is done. This is required prior to the analyses which are undertaken by the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories. The possibility of retaining the system but alternating between March/September and June/December on a year by year basis is under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
See(l). 
Trials of Japanese in the Northern Territory and New Guinea (Question No. 1175) 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937, 1 present a report on work done under the Act during 1 977. 
Pursuant to section 76A of the National Health Act 1953, 1 present the annual report on the operations of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a summary of the report of an interdepartmental committee on South Sea Islanders in Australia together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Social Security relating to the report. Copies of the full report have been lodged with the Parliamentary Library. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The guidelines governing the exercise of the Departmental discretions in the administration of the laws governing the functions of the Department of Social Security are presently being reviewed to enable the Department to comply with the provisions of the Freedom of Information legislation when it becomes law. Upon the completion of the review and the preparation of documents in a form which enables their release to the public these documents will be available to Members of Parliament. 
Under the arrangements to apply as from 1 November uninsured persons are entitled to receive hospital accommodation with treatment by a doctor employed by the hospital at no cost to the patient. If an uninsured person wishes to enter a hospital and to be treated by a doctor in either a private or a shared ward he or she will pay $40 a day for shared ward accommodation and $60 a day for a private room at that hospital. The patient also will be entitled to receive 40 per cent of the scheduled fee as a Commonwealth medical benefit, with the patient paying no more than $20 for any one service. Of course, the compulsion in the present health insurance system either to insure or to pay the Medibank levy will be removed after 1 November. It will be for the individual to determine whether he wishes to insure himself either for the cost of a private hospital room or for the cost of a shared room with doctor of choice. 
If in New South Wales, for instance, a doctor recommends that a patient at a recognised public hospital should have a private room, it is a matter for the hospital authorities to provide that private room for the patient, but that room - 
Yes, at no cost to the patient. But that decision will be taken in accordance with the condition of the patient. This is the practice that applies at present and undoubtedly will continue to apply after 1 November. In most of our recognised hospitals, decisions of that nature are taken according to the condition of the patient. The advantage in taking out health insurance is accepted by people who wish to have their doctor of choice treat them in hospital. When people are not insured, in most instances- particularly when they are patients in the larger teaching hospitals- they will be treated by a doctor who is employed by the hospital. 
The honourable member seeks a medical opinion from me. I am unable to give such an opinion. I will refer his question to the appropriate sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council for investigation. I am aware that doctors and medical scientists in certain fields have made such claims as have been suggested by the honourable member. I do not know just how valid those claims are. I will discuss the matter with the  Chairman  of the National Health and Medical Research Council to see whether research in this area is being undertaken in Australia or overseas and, if not, whether funds can be made available at some stage for such research to be undertaken in this country. I have no doubt that research is being undertaken. I will give the honourable member what information is available on the issue. I will give consideration, at the appropriate time, to the suggestion that was contained in the latter part of his question. 
I am aware of Press reports in the last two or three days concerning inducements which are apparently still being made to medical practitioners to encourage them to make unnecessary applications for pathology tests, in spite of the amendments which were made to the Health Insurance Act last year to close off the opportunities for abuse and overuse. I have spoken this morning with  Dr Sax,  who is the  chairman  of the pathology working party, to find out what progress his committee has made in reviewing the changes which were made last year to the laws relating to pathology and the payment of benefits for pathology purposes. He assures me that the review is almost complete and that the Government will have the report available to it for consideration in the very near future. That report will make recommendations to the Government to enable it to close off some of the loopholes which apparently still exist. I will make that report public. 
One of the difficulties has been the legal interpretation of section 129AA of the Health Insurance Act. I have sought, and my Department for some time has been seeking, legal advice about the interpretation of this provision of the Act. I hope to get an interpretation on this. If the Act proves to be inadequate we will take whatever steps are necessary to close the loophole. We are determined to stamp out this abuse and overuse of pathology services by irresponsible and unscrupulous doctors and also by pathology operators and laboratory operators in this country. I condemn them because I believe that there is nothing more loathsome than a group of people in a privileged position who are using the health of people to make their millions at the expense of the community. We will continue to take whatever action is necessary and to seek whatever legal advice is necessary to stop the malpractice of a very small percentage of irresponsible and unscrupulous medical practitioners who should not have any place in our society. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Collection Bill 1978 as they are associated measures. Separate questions of course will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I am generally aware of the contention that is implied in the honourable member's question in respect of the health maintenance organisations or pre-paid health plans in the United States. Of course my Department has been studying the possibility of encouraging organisations of that nature to establish in Australia. Indeed, the honourable member will recall that when we amended the National Health Act and the Health Insurance Act in 1976 provision was made for the establishment of health maintenance organisations in Australia. Discussions have taken place between my Department,  Dr Sax,  one or two health insurance organisations and the Australian Medical Association to see whether it would be possible to establish similar organisations in Australia on a pilot project basis. In regard to the other detail in the honourable gentlemen's question, I will obtain the information for him. 
It will depend largely on when health insurance organisations, the medical profession and the State governments, which have a responsibility in this area, are prepared to come forward with a proposal. Obviously we will not set up an organisation ourselves, but we are making every opportunity available for responsible organisations in the community to come forward with plans and we would welcome the opportunity to assist them. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Under the provisions of the States Grants (Home Care) Act, the Commonwealth pays a subsidy to the States of up to half the salary of approved welfare officers who are employed at, or in conjunction with, senior citizens' centres and who are employed wholly or mainly in providing a welfare service to aged persons. The term 'wholly or mainly' has been defined administratively by my Department as a minimum of 51 per cent of the total time of an officer's employment. 
At present the Commonwealth subsidises a total of 1 12 welfare officer positions throughout Australia. Since October 1975 financial constraints have precluded the approval of new welfare officer positions for subsidy under the Act. With additional funding provided in the 1978-79 Budget I was recently able to announce that the Commonwealth support could be extended to an additional 79 welfare officers bringing the total to 1 9 1 positions. 
In addition the Government has accepted the recommendations of the Galbally Report regarding the appointment of ethnic welfare officers to work specifically among the ethnicaged. The Government has appropriated $0.1 lm for the salaries of 1 0 new ethnic welfare officer positions in 1 978-79; to be followed by five positions in 1 979-80 and 1 980-8 1 . 
Some local government authorities in Victoria have been under a misapprehension that the welfare officers whom they employ in accordance with the Act must devote their full time to the welfare of aged persons. As indicated above, this is certainly not a restriction imposed by the Act. The Victorian Government is now aware of this. 
The flexible use of welfare officer staff is possible and no change to the guidelines used by my Department is seen to be necessary. 
Ethnic Liaison Officers: Attendance at Seminars  (Question No.  1708) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided in answer to question No. 1674, page 1 174,  Hansard,  19 September 1978. 
VIP Insurances Ltd  (Question No.  1688) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
In accordance with the usual practice, the rates of compensation were reviewed in connection with the annual Budget. Although no immediate increases are proposed, the honourable member may be assured that the position of long-term compensation recipients will be kept under close notice. 
I am aware that two funds in Queensland have run into some financial difficulties. In fact I am now awaiting a report from the inspector who was appointed by me under the terms of the National Health Act. As soon as that report comes to hand I will take appropriate measures to try to liquidate the fund and accommodate the problems of the contributors to that fund. The second fund in question is also the subject of investigation at present. I have asked my Department to examine ways and means by which funds that encounter difficulties can be wound up in a much more expeditious fashion. The National Health Act was amended in 1976 in order to meet such circumstances, but the provisions of the Act were taken largely from those provisions which apply to the health insurance industry generally. Quite clearly, people who will suffer as a result of the liquidation of health benefit funds need some better assurance than the assurance that they have at present. 
I refer now to the arrangements that will apply from 1 November this year. The Commonwealth universal medical benefit will be available to all Australian residents as from that date. In the event of a fund being liquidated after 1 November, every person affected by the closure of that fund will be eligible to receive the Commonwealth benefit. If it can be ascertained that a person is no longer covered by the provisions of the hospital cover under the terms of the private funds, the person will be entitled to receive standard ward accommodation at no cost to him. However, this does not overcome the great problems that have been experienced by private hospitals, by some of the public hospitals and by contributors who have been affected by the closure of these two funds. I am well aware of the problem. I thank the honourable gentleman for his representations in the matter and for his concern on the issue. 
I am aware of the report that was handed to the Minister for Health in Victoria. I have not yet had the opportunity of reading the report. I do not think that my Department has yet had the opportunity of examining the report. However, the honourable member will be aware that the National Health and Medical Research Council on several occasions has examined exhaustively all the available advice that has been presented to it from sources both in this country and overseas. There has not been any indication that either 2,4-D or 2,4,5-T in fact, has caused the abnormalities in childbirth that have been suggested. Of course, this is an area that is completely outside my professional competence. 
It is a question that needs to be left in the hands of scientific people. I do not think that even the Leader of the Opposition would have the competence to make a scientific judgment as to whether 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T are causing the problems to health which some claim they are: This is a matter that must be left to research scientists both in this country and overseas. It is against that background, of course, that the reports have been prepared by the NHMRC and also by the Victorian Department of Health. However, if there are any recommendations or criticisms of the present methods of arriving at these conslusions I certainly will take them into consideration and ask the  Chairman  of the NHMRC to report on them. 
I thank the honourable member for asking the question. However, I do not give much credibility to the source of his information. I have read the report because he was good enough to provide a copy of it to me. I do not agree in any way with the conclusions reached in the report. The Commonwealth Government has left the negotiation of the terms of remuneration of visiting medical specialists to the State governments themselves, provided they conform to reasonable requirements that the Commonwealth has under the Commonwealth-States hospital cost-sharing agreements. In all circumstances we have provided for flexibility as between the States. For instance in Queensland the State Government's method of remuneration of visiting specialists in hospitals is by way of sessional payment. It adheres very strongly to that method of payment because it believes it creates a degree of efficiency which would not otherwise exist. 
The honourable member might like to call it socialism. I do not know whether I would define it in that way, but since that is his attitude I will leave him with it. Other States have other methods of paying their doctors. In country areas there is what is called a 'modified fee-for-service' arrangement. I know that State governments are in the process of renegotiating some of their contracts with doctors. My officers have been involved in some of the preliminary discussions with the States on this matter. However, we are in no way trying to impose our will upon the State governments in relation to the way in which they pay doctors employed by them. As for the 'pool-mix' arrangement as the honourable member calls it, I am well aware that the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission entered into an arrangement called a pool-mix system. Do not ask me to define the term, but it is a system of paying doctors on an experimental basis. The Commonwealth Government was not in fact - 
The pool-mix system was conducted in Victoria without any involvement whatsoever by the Commonwealth Government. I understand that the pilot project terminated on 1 July 1978. So far, the Commission has not made its report on this pilot project available to me or to my Department. Therefore I am not in a position to comment upon it. I would like to refute any suggestion that either my Department or I try to exercise any pressure upon State governments in the way in which they negotiate their contracts with doctors serving public patients in recognised hospitals. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the Government's proposals for social services pensions and benefits for 1978-79. It reflects the Government's concern that assistance to those in need should be maintained notwithstanding the necessity for restraint in Government expenditure generally. The provisions of the Bill cover the following: Indexation of pensions and benefits; age pensions for persons aged 70 or more; rationalisation of payments for children; family allowances, including handicapped child's allowance and double orphan's pension; maternity allowance; and payment of benefits in respect of children living abroad. 
Indexation of pensions and benefits 
Under the current automatic adjustment provisions of the Social Services Act, the single and married rates of pension, and certain rates of unemployment and sickness benefit, are adjusted in May and November each year in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. The Bill amends these provisions so that pensions and benefits will be adjusted once a year, in November, rather than twice a year as at present. This change has been made in the light of the significant reduction in inflation achieved by this Government. The increase in November of each year will be based on the percentage increase in the CPI over the 12 months ending with the previous June quarter. The first increase under the new arrangements will be in November 1979. The annual automatic adjustment provisions will not extend to the rate of benefit for unemployment beneficiaries without dependants or to the rate of benefit for single unemployment and sickness beneficiaries under 18 years of age. These rates will be reviewed annually in the Budget context. 
Under the existing indexation provisions the rates of pensions and benefits will be increased in November of this year in line with the rise in the CPI between the December 1977 and June 1978 quarters. The single rate of age, invalid and widow's pension, supporting parent's benefit and unemployment and sickness benefit will rise from $51.45 to $53.20 a week. The combined married rate will rise from $85.80 to $88.70 a week. These increases reflect the full 3.4 per cent increase in the CPI for the first half of 1978. The Bill provides that the increases will be paid to persons aged 70 years or more only if the income test is satisfied. I will cover this in more detail shortly. 
Furthermore, there will be no increase in the rate of benefit paid to unemployment beneficiaries aged 18 or more who do not have dependants. They will continue to receive $5 1.45 a week. Similarly, single unemployment and sickness beneficiaries under 18 years of age will continue to receive $36 a week. The new rates of pension and supporting parent's benefit will come into effect on pay-day 9 November 1978. Increases in the rates of unemployment and sickness benefits will operate in respect of payments due on and after 1 November 1978. The cost of these increases is expected to be $95.3m in 1978-79 and $ 145.7m in a full year. 
Age pensions for persons aged 70 or more 
The single and married rates of age pension are payable free of the income test in the case of persons who have attained 70 years of age. The single rate is currently $51.45 a week and the combined married rate is $85.80 a week. Additional payments- that is, additional pension for children, guardian's allowance and supplementary (rent) assistance- are income tested. 
As from November 1978, pensions payable to persons aged 70 years or more will remain at their current rates, but the pensioner may qualify for the new indexed rate subject to the income test. Where no increase is payable pensions will continue to be paid at the rate in force since May 1978-that is, $51.45 or $85.80 a week. It is estimated that more than 500,000 pensioners 70 years of age or over will receive the full increase payable in November 1978. Blind pensioners will continue to be paid free of income test. Many pensioners have continued to advise the Department of Social Security of their income for 'fringe' benefit purposes. This information, held in the Department's records, will be used to assess the entitlement, if any, of pensioners to the November 1978 pension increases, without the need for further contact from the pensioners involved. 
Pensioners aged 70 years or over who have not advised the Department of their income should do so as soon as possible if they wish to be considered for ah increase. Single pensioners 70 years or over who have income, apart from pension, of between $20 a week and $23.50 a week will receive a partial increase. The corresponding figures for couples receiving the married rate of pension are $34.50 a week and $40.30 a week.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the following table which sets out the rates of pensions which will be payable to pensioners 70 years or over as from 9 November 1978. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197809284_42_2.jpg"></graphic>

-It will be noted that, for single persons, any income over $20 a week reduces the increase in pension by only 50c a week for each $ 1 of income over $20. In the case of a married couple the reduction is 25c a week each for every dollar of combined income in excess of $34.50. 
Rationalisation of payments for children 
Handicapped child's allowance of $15 a week is payable to parents or guardians in respect of a child under the age of 1 6 years who is cared for at home and who, because of the severity of the handicap, is in need of constant care and attention. Subject to the discretion of the DirectorGeneral, a handicapped child 's allowance is also payable, wholly or in part, where a person has the custody, care and control of a substantially handicapped child and, as a consequence of continuing substantial expenditure associated with the child's disability, the person suffers financial hardship. 
The Bill gives effect to the Government's decision to extend payment of handicapped child 's allowance for full-time students aged between 1 6 and 25 years, providing the child is not receiving an invalid pension. Existing provisions allow continuation of payment of handicapped child 's allowance for not more than 30 days in the case of severely handicapped children who are temporarily absent from the family home but exclude those who are not severely handicapped. The Bill gives the Director-General discretion to continue handicapped child's allowance in respect of any child during short absences from the family home. 
In order to make provisions regarding children uniform the Government has also decided that the upper age limit of 25 years for payment of family allowance and double orphan's pension will also apply to payment of additional pension and additional unemployment or sickness benefit for children. It has also decided to preclude payment of family allowance and double orphan's pension where the child receives an invalid pension. The Bill contains savings provisions which will ensure that current pensioners and beneficiaries are not disadvantaged by these changes. 
Family allowances 
The Government will continue the new scheme of family allowances which it introduced in 1976. These allowances will not be subject to any income test or to taxation. The Social Services Act provides that family allowance, including double orphan's pension and handicapped child's allowance shall be payable in respect of endowment periods as determined by the Director-General. A four-weekly payment cycle applies for each benefit. Payment may be made by cheque or by credit to a bank, building society or credit union account. 
The Bill amends the Social Services Act to provide that family allowance be paid in respect of monthly endowment periods rather than the existing four-weekly periods. The new endowment periods will commence on the fifteenth day of a calendar month and end on the fourteenth day of the next month. The rates of family allowances will accordingly be expressed in monthly amounts. However, the total amount paid to parents in a given year will not be less than the total amount now payable.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the following table showing the present weekly rates and proposed monthly rates of family allowances: 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

-I thank the House. The first monthly endowment period will commence on 15 May 1979, this date being the day immediately following the end of the previous fourweekly endowment period. Thus there will be no lag between the end of the last four-weekly period and the beginning of the first monthly period. Payments on 1 5 May will be at the fourweekly rate and the first payments at the new monthly rates will be on 14 June 1979. The Bill gives effect to the Government's decision that family allowance will no longer be paid for students receiving Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances or other related Commonwealth education allowances. In order to compensate for the loss of family allowance, the rates of TEAS and other related Commonwealth education allowances are being increased by $5.25 a week. 
As the Act stands at present the Department of Social Security has been advised that it is possible for two people to be paid a full family allowance for the same child at the same time. This is clearly not the intention of the legislation. The Bill therefore proposes to remedy this deficiency by giving the Director-General discretion to apportion payments on such basis as he determines where he is satisfied that two persons are each qualified to receive payment in respect of the same child at the same time. For example, where parents living permanently apart have joint custody of, or joint access to, a child. 
Maternity allowance 
Maternity allowance is payable under the provisions of the Social Services Act to mothers, irrespective of means, to help meet the expenses associated with the birth of children. There has been no change in the rates of the allowance payable since 1943. Costs associated with confinements are now largely covered by health insurance arrangements. The Bill abolishes this allowance for births occurring on or after 1 November 1978. 
Payment of benefits in respect of children living abroad 
Provisions in the Social Services Act currently enable family allowance, including handicapped child's allowance and double orphan's pension, and additional pension or supporting parent's benefit or additional unemployment or sickness benefit for children to be paid for a child living abroad. The Government believes it is inappropriate for the Australian taxpayer to contribute to the support of persons who are permanently resident overseas, who have never been resident in Australia and who may never come to Australia. The rates of family allowances and the size of the tax rebates for dependants are set in the light of Australian conditions and, in many cases, would be over-generous having regard to the cost of maintaining a dependant overseas. 
In the light of this the Bill provides that such payments will not in future be made for children outside Australia unless: A child is temporarily abroad; a child is living abroad pending migration to Australia within four years after the commencement of the benefit; and in respect of additional pension/benefit a child is living abroad with a person who is himself receiving an Australian pension or benefit overseas. Expenditure on pensions and benefits payable under the Social Services Act is estimated to be $6,602m for 1978-79, which will be an increase of $399m over that paid in 1977-78. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for amendments to the National Health Act 1953 to implement two separate decisions taken by the Government. Firstly, provisions in the Bill together with provisions contained in the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, implement the Government's changes to the health insurance arrangements to come into effect from 1 November 1978. Secondly, the Bill provides for the expansion of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme to allow dentists to prescribe certain pharmaceutical benefits for the dental treatment of their patients. 
In my statement to the House on 15 August 1978 explaining in detail the Government's changes to the health insurance arrangements, I advised that a Commonwealth medical benefit would be payable to all Australian residents for medical- and some optometrical- expenses incurred. Persons wishing to take out additional medical benefits cover with a registered medical benefits organisation will be free to do so. Further, free standard ward treatment in recognised hospitals will continue to be available, under hospital cost-sharing agreements with the States for persons who do not have hospital benefits insurance with a health insurance organisation. 
The principle of universal health insurance cover for all Australian residents remains. All Australians remain covered for the Commonwealth medical benefit and are entitled to standard ward accommodation in recognised hospitals at no cost to them. They will not have their doctor of choice unless they insure for a doctor of choice. However, the Government recognises that people who now are receiving Medibank Standard medical benefits and optometrical benefits at a level of 75 per cent of schedule fees with a maximum gap of $ 10 for each service, will need to insure privately to retain this level of cover after 1 November 1978. There will be little change in the hospital insurance arrangements. The abolition of the subsidy to levy payers for hospital insurance in general will mean a small increase in premiums for the continuation of this type of insurance cover. 
Having regard to the above position, the Government has decided to retain the concept of basic medical and hospital insurance tables in the legislation. It is to be a continued condition of registration of medical and hospital benefits organisations that contributors to the organisation be offered benefits in accordance with basic medical and hospital benefit tables. Such tables are defined in clause 3 of the Bill and, in brief, ensure that on the basic medical benefits table persons are able to obtain insurance benefits which, together with their Commonwealth medical benefit entitlement, provide a level of benefits equivalent to the present 75 per cent of the schedule fee with a maximum gap of $10. In relation to the basic hospital insurance, the new basic table retains the existing coverage which organisations must provide under standard hospital benefits tables. 
From 1 November 1978 organisations will be permitted to offer a variety of benefit tables, including tables providing deductibles. Such tables are referred to in the Bill as optional hospital or medical benefits tables and are defined in clause 3. These optional medical and hospital benefit tables must conform with basic criteria. For example, an optional medical benefits table must relate to medical benefits for scheduled medical services. Optional hospital benefit tables must provide hospital benefits to cover shared room hospital accommodation and provide nursing home benefits. In addition to these basic criteria, optional tables must comply with guidelines determined by the Minister. Whilst these guidelines will be flexible to allow registered organisations to offer a variety of health benefit packages, the Government still considers it has a responsibility to ensure that such tables offer adequate benefits for reasonable contribution rates, and will take this into account when considering applications from registered organisations. I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard  those guidelines and conditions which will operate from 1 November 1978. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

OPTIONAL TABLES 
Guidelines and Special Conditions 
Guidelines 
Optional Medical Insurance Tables: 
Fund benefits ranging up to 60 per cent of the Schedule fee; 
Exclusion from fund benefit of services or groups of services in the Schedule; or 
While providing fund benefit coverage for all items in the Schedule exclusion from fund benefit of a specified sum of fund benefit entitlements- up to $500 a year (family) $250 a year (single). 
Optional Hospital Insurance Tables: 
Exclusion of fund benefits ranging from 1 to 5 days (inclusive) per year; 
Exclusion of fund benefits ranging from I to 5 days (inclusive) per period of hospitalisation; 
Exclusion per annum of fund benefits of an amount equal to 5 times the amount currently charged to private patients in shared rooms of recognised hospitals (currently totals $200); or 
Exclusion of other benefits specified by the hospital insurance organisations. 
Special conditions 
Registered organisations should frame their rules so that in assessing when the exclusion has been met by the contributor it should regard a family as one unit and total the days or number of services or cost of services or days used by the whole family. 
There can be subsidisation between full basic medical or hospital table with other medical or hospital tables providing options and vice versa. 
In framing rules for hospital benefit tables which include options, organisations would provide the same level of benefit exclusion for both family and single contributors under that particular table- 
Optional tables cannot be constructed so as to exclude the payment of nursing home benefits. 
Waiting period for entitlement to nursing home benefits shall not exceed two months. 
-I thank the House. Both basic and optional hospital tables will include the provision of nursing home benefits to maintain the new nursing home arrangements introduced by the Government last year. As indicated in my statement of 15 August last, I await with interest the various benefit packages and contribution rates to be offered by organisations once they assess the freedom and flexibility available under the new arrangements. 
At present organisations are subject to conditions of registration. Statutory conditions are specified in section 73BA. It is necessary, under the new arrangements, to specify further conditions to which the registration of organisations will be subject after 1 November 1978. In addition to specifying the new conditions, the Bill incorporates them, and the statutory conditions currently contained in section 73  BA,  into a Schedule to the Act. I do not propose to explain all the conditions in detail, but would like to mention specifically the following new conditions: The first is included in paragraph (g) of the Schedule which provides that a registered hospital benefits organisation can offer supplementary hospital benefits only to a person who also contributes to a basic or optional hospital benefits table. This condition, together with the condition specified in paragraph (h) of the Schedule, will ensure that registered organisations continue to pay nursing home benefits to nursing home patients who are contributors to the organisation. The second condition I would like to mention concerns waiting periods. This condition is specified in paragraph (n) of the Schedule and provides that organisations shall not apply any waiting periods for persons who insure in a basic or optional benefits table before 1 January 1979. 
Clause 9 of the Bill amends provisions relating to hospital benefits reinsurance accounts. From 1 November 1978 registered hospital benefits organisations will be permitted to debit to those accounts hospital benefits for hospital treatment received outside Australia by contributors to the organisations. Recently I have been made aware of action taken to preclude a person from becoming a contributor to an organisation where that person is a patient in an institution. I consider such action to be a direct attempt by an organisation to abrogate its responsibilities to pay nursing home benefits for such patients who are contributors to the organisation- a responsibility which was accepted readily by organisations when the new nursing home arrangements were introduced last year. Accordingly, clause 1 1 introduces a new section 73BFA. This provision enables the Minister to direct an organisation to accept a person as a contributor to a basic table conducted by the organisation where he is satisfied that the person was not accepted as a contributor because the patient was in an institution. 
Under the Act a medical benefits organisation is required to offer from the basic medical benefits table, medical benefits and benefits for certain optometrical services and for all other professional services. Representations have been received from organisations and individuals in the community objecting to the requirement that medical benefits be offered for all services, particularly procedures involving abortions. New section 73F, in clause 14 of the Bill, provides for the Minister, upon application by a medical benefits organisation, to grant an exemption to the organisation from paying out of its basic medical benefits table benefits for specified professional services. However, to ensure persons are aware of the exemption, the organisation is required, by virtue of the condition of registration specified in paragraph (s) of the Schedule, to advise contributors and registered persons of the particulars of the exemption and to publish the particulars in a manner satisfactory to the Minister. 
Whilst there is at present no legislative requirement, I would expect that registered organisations which obtain exemptions from paying for specific medical services would ensure that arrangements are made for the transfer of dissatisfied contributors to other organisations without penalty. Equally, an organisation offering a table with a specific exemption would be expected to provide that a person wishing to transfer to that organisation from another fund by reason of that exempted item would not have any waiting period applied to comparable tables. In fact I have received some assurances in that regard. For some years, organisations have accepted contributors who are financial transferring from comparable medical benefit entitlements without serving a waiting period. Most organisations have a rule to this effect. I would expect this convention to be followed by the health funds so that persons are not disadvantaged when transferring from one fund to another fund at the same benefits levels. 
A significant drawback in the effective analysis of the health insurance system has been, to date, the unavailability of related and adequate information. This question has been raised with representatives of the industry at a meeting of the health insurance advisory committee where the continuing difficulty of maintaining and furnishing proper information has been recognised. The Bill enables proper information to be obtained under a number of provisions. New section 74C, clause 15, provides for the prescription by regulations of certain records to be kept by organisations. New section 74D enables the prescription of information drawn from those records to be furnished to the Director-General of Health. In addition, organisations are required, by the conditions of registration specified in paragraphs ( k) and ( 1 ) of the schedule to maintain membership and other records of contributors and registered persons. They will also be required to furnish returns of the number of persons so enrolled and relevant financial information. 
I have already mentioned that this question has been discussed at meetings of the Health Insurance Advisory Committee. I understand that registered organisations are already familiar with the nature of the information to be maintained and furnished and that the provisions in the Bill generally are in accord with the wishes of that committee. The Bill, in clause 18, repeals Divisions lA and 2 of Part III of the Act. These relate to the subsidy paid to registered organisations for persons insured for hospital benefits only and to special account provisions which no longer operate after 30 September 1978. The amendments made by clauses 5 and 6 are consequential upon the repeal of the special account provisions. 
As mentioned earlier, the Bill also provides, in clauses 20 to 42, for the expansion of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme to allow dentists to prescribe certain pharmaceutical benefits for the dental treatment of their patients. Under existing State legislation dentists are permitted to prescribe medication for the dental treatment of their patients. However, at present, the National Health Act does not permit dentists to prescribe pharmaceutical benefits, so patients must pay the full cost of medication prescribed by dentists. To obtain the medication at pharmaceutical benefit rates, dentists must refer their patients to medical practitioners who then prescribe the medication. This anomalous situation will be corrected by the Bill. 
It is anticipated that this expansion of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme will have very little effect on expenditure. The cost of this proposal under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme will be offset to a large extent by a reduction in medical practitioner fees subsidised through the government financed medical benefits arrangements. The same payment conditions will apply to pharmaceutical benefits prescribed by dentists as those which apply to pharmaceutical benefits prescribed by doctors. That is, pensioners with a pensioner health benefits entitlement card will receive them free of charge, while other patients will pay the normal $2.50 patient contribution. 
Finally, the Bill amends the definition of 'dependant' in relation to a pensioner to impose an upper age limit of 25 years on student dependent children of pensioners. This amendment ensures that the definition remains in line with corresponding definitions in social security and repatriation legislation. The amendment will maintain uniformity in the operation of the various Acts which provide fringe benefits to pensioners and enable the Government's policies in relation to pensioners to be applied equally across the board. A savings provision has been included in the amendment to preserve - the entitlement of a person presently qualifying as a dependant of a pensioner who otherwise would cease to be so qualified solely as a result of the amended criteria. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Kingman)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the House contains provisions which give effect to the Government 's changes to the health insurance arrangements announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget. Honourable members will recall that, in a statement to the House on 15 August 1978, I explained in detail the new arrangements proposed to operate from 1 November of this year. Therefore it is not necessary to address myself to the details of the changes, but to the outline of the legislation before the House. 
I would reiterate to honourable members, that the proposals embodied in this legislation, and in other legislation to be considered, arise out of the Government's continuing review of the costs of health care in Australia. As health insurance has such an important influence on the costs of these services, it is vital that we continue with these reviews. In another forum, we are actively engaged with the States in discussions on the rationalisation and utilisation of hospital services. Since approximately 60 per cent of our total costs are in hospitals, cost containment and efficiency in the use of resources in the hospital sector are vital in any program to arrest the accelerating rate of health costs. 
While the 1 October 1976 changes to Medibank, and subsequent amendments to the Health insurance arrangements effected by this Government, have resulted in a significant decline in the rate of acceleration of health costs, this rate of increase continues to be high. The new measures will, in the Government's view, continue the downward trend in the rate of acceleration of cost rises. The new arrangements which will result in the abolition of the Medibank levy and the reduction of medical insurance premiums will reduce the burden of costs to the individual. At the same time they will simplify the complex arrangements of the existing scheme. The principal provisions of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 relate to payment of the new Commonwealth medical benefit. 
Under the new arrangements, a Commonwealth medical benefit will be payable for medical and some optometrical expenses incurred by Australian residents. As is the present position concerning the rate of medical benefits, the levels of the new Commonwealth medical benefit will be based on scheduled medical fees. Clause 9 of the Bill provides for the amounts of commonwealth medical benefit to be: Firstly, where the medical expenses relate to services rendered to eligible pensioners or their dependants, 85 per cent of the scheduled fee with a maximum gap of $5 for each service; secondly, where the medical expenses relate to services rendered to a disadvantaged person, who has entered into a direct billing arrangement with his doctor, 75 per cent of the schedule fee; and thirdly, where the medical expenses relate to services rendered to all other Australian residents, 40 per cent of the schedule fee with a maximum gap of  $20  paid by the resident for each service. 
I have just mentioned direct billing arrangements to apply from 1 November 1978. This aspect of the new arrangements is authorised by clause 1 5 of the Bill, which is a key provision and inserts new sections  20  to  20f.  New section  20a  provides that direct billing arrangements may only be entered into for services rendered to eligible pensioners and their dependants, or to a person who, in the opinion of the practitioner rendering the service, is a disadvantaged person or a dependant of such a person. Eligible pensioners and their dependants are able to assign their Commonwealth medical benefits to the practitioner rendering the service. While the legislation does not specify that the practitioner shall accept the benefits in full settlement of the expenses involved, I am confident that, in accordance with the policy of the Australian Medical Association, practitioners will continue to waive payment of any payment by the eligible pensioner or his dependant in these circumstances. 
In the case of a patient, who is considered by the practitioner rendering the service, as a disadvantaged person, new section  20a  provides for an agreement, between the person and the practitioner, where the person assigns his Commonwealth medical benefits to the practitioner. In such circumstances the doctor will accept the benefits in full settlement of the medical expenses involved. The specific direct billing arrangements will not apply to an eligible pensioner, or his dependant, or a disadvantaged person, who is a medically insured person with a medical benefits organisation, for such medical benefits related to schedule medical services. 
The amendments effected by clauses 13, 18 and 19 of the Bill also relate to direct billing procedures. These clauses extend the above principles into the approved pathology practitioner arrangements, and into undertakings given by medical practitioners and participating optometrists. 
Lengthy consideration has been given to the question of including in the legislation guidelines or definitions relating to disadvantaged persons. I have also discussed the matter with the AMA. On balance I have decided not to specify such guidelines in the legislation. On balance I consider that the relationship between a patient and his practitioner is unique- indeed, quite personal. The term 'disadvantaged person' is difficult to define in legal terms, but the specification in the legislation of categories of 'disadvantaged persons' could introduce rigid procedures, which could be complex to administer. Such definitions may not be readily adaptable to changes in patients' circumstances. There is also the possibility that this could lead to interference in the patient-practitioner relationship to which I have just referred. I believe that the spirit of the Government's proposals in this area is best achieved by leaving the judgment as to whether or not a person is disadvantaged to the practitioner and patient concerned. For the information of honourable members, the new direct billing arrangements could include persons in the following categories: persons on low income including social security unemployment, sickness or special beneficiaries; newly arrived migrants and some other ethnic groups; refugees who are financially disadvantaged; persons who suffer financial misfortune because of substantial medical expenses caused by prolonged or severe illness. 
Let me assure honourable members that I have arranged for my Department to watch closely the operation of the new direct billing procedures and to review them after they have been in operation for six months. Where a practitioner classifies a patient as disadvantaged, and bulk bills accordingly, he will be required to accept the 75 per cent Commonwealth benefit in full settlement for his services. I will take appropriate action where it is determined that provisions operating after 1 November 1978 are being breached or abused. Claims for Commonwealth medical benefits under the new arrangements will be paid through two sources. 
Firstly, the Commonwealth Department of Health will pay benefits direct to practitioners, for claims made under the new direct billing procedures. Although the practice under current bulk billing procedures is for the practitioner to give the patient a copy of the assignment agreement form, there is no mandatory requirement for the practitioner to provide a copy. This matter has been the subject of representations by the Australian Council of Social Service. The Bill before the House provides that a medical benefit will not be paid, under the new direct billing arrangements, unless a copy of the assignment or agreement form is given to the eligible pensioner or the disadvantaged person. 
Secondly, registered medical benefit organisations will pay claims for Commonwealth medical benefits from persons who are contributors to the organisation or who are registered with the organisation for Commonwealth medical benefit purposes only. Advances will be made, by my Department, to registered organisations to enable them to make Commonwealth benefit payments for claims lodged by contributors and registered persons. However, the Health Insurance Commission will continue to pay claims for medical benefits for Medibank standard persons, for services rendered prior to 1 November 1978. 
A person may obtain payment of Commonwealth medical benefits, from a registered organisation, without becoming a contributor to the organisation, by registering for Commonwealth medical benefit purposes. This facility will only be available through a medical benefits organisation which has entered into an appropriate agreement with the Minister for Health, on behalf of the Commonwealth, for the registration of persons for this purpose. The agreement will cover such matters as: the institution and maintenance by a registered organisation of satisfactory records and procedures; the payment by the organisation of claims for Commonwealth medical benefits; periodical inspection of records by officers of my Department; the payment by the Commonwealth of amounts towards meeting the administrative expenses incurred by an organisation in paying claims for Commonwealth medical benefits. 
Most medical benefit organisations have advised my Department of their willingness to enter into agreements to pay Commonwealth medical benefits. The only funds which have not applied are four funds which restrict membership to persons employed in certain corporations. The Bill also contains provisions relating to hospital payments. At present, payments for the operation of hospitals in the Northern Territory are made through my Department. Following the achievement of self-government by the Northern Territory, the Government has decided that future Commonwealth funding of Territory hospitals should be placed on the same basis as that applicable to the States. Accordingly, clause 20 of the Bill enables a hospital cost-sharing agreement to be entered into between the Commonwealth and the Government of the Northern Territory. The agreements between the Commonwealth and the Government of the Northern Territory will be based on the heads of . greement in schedule 2 to the Health Insurance Act, which is similar to existing agreements with the States. 
The second matter in the Bill concerning hospital payments is contained in clause 39 which amends heads 7, 8 and 10 of the heads of agreement in schedule 2. These heads provide, principally, for the charging policies specified in the Commonwealth/State hospital cost sharing agreements and, in this context, refer to the term 'privately insured person'. This term derives its meaning from sub-sections 3 (7), (8) and (8a) of the Health Insurance Act 1973, and relates to a person entitled to both medical and hospital benefits in accordance with standard tables operated by medical and hospital benefits organisations. The effect of a person being deemed to be a 'privately insured person' is that such a person is exempt from payment of the health insurance levy. In accordance with the heads of agreement and the agreements with the States, such a person is also excluded from entitlement to free standard ward hospital treatment, unless an agreement provides otherwise. 
Since the health insurance levy is to be abolished, the term 'privately insured person' is no longer relevant in that context. It is still necessary to exclude, from free standard ward treatment under the Commonwealth-State agreements, persons who are insured for hospital benefits with a hospital benefits organisation. Accordingly, the Bill substitutes a new term, 'hospital insured person', in the heads of agreement for the reference to a 'privately insured person'. This new term is defined in clauses 3 and 4 of the Bill. Formal concurrence by States is being sought to the variation to the hospital costsharing agreements consequential upon the substitution of the term 'hospital insured person' in the heads of agreement. 
The Bill, in clauses 41 and 42 ensures that current scheduled medical fees will apply, for Commonwealth medical benefit purposes after 1 November 1978 and that outstanding claims for medical benefits received after 1 November 1978 will continue to be paid. The Bill also amends the definition of 'dependant', in relation to an eligible pensioner, to impose an upper age limit of 25 years on student dependent children of pensioners. This amendment ensures that the provisions of the Health Insurance Act remain in line with corresponding social security and repatriation legislation to maintain uniformity in the provision of 'fringe benefits' to pensioners. 
The remaining provisions in the Bill contain amendments consequential upon: the introduction of the new Commonwealth medical benefit; the abolition of the health insurance levy; or the transfer of functions relating to the administration of certain provisions of the Act and payments under the Act, to the Department of Health from the Health Insurance Commission. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I would like to thank those honourable members who participated in the debate on this very important area of government expenditure- this very important social area which will account for an expenditure of $10, 850m this financial year. That is an enormous expenditure on the health, social security, and veterans' affairs areas of the appropriation. One of the great difficulties for any government is trying to ensure that the social welfare allocations go to those in greatest need. If we could be sure that a sum of that magnitude- $ 10,850m- was in fact going to those in greatest need, it would bring about a situation in this country where there was no poverty. Unfortunately, in the distribution of sums of that magnitude it is not infrequently that we find that we do not quite reach the corners of need in the community. I do not say that in criticism of this Government or any other government. The fact is that in social welfare policies the great difficulty has been to identify in some circumstances those people who require assistance and those who require it more than others. In a society where human nature abounds, we find that people have their own definitions of need and that some people regard themselves as being in great need when, in fact, they are jolly well off. The health scheme is a case in point. 
I do not suppose that anybody has benefited more from universal health insurance than the providers of health care. One of our great difficulties- and it is a great difficulty that emerges in all Western countries which have universal health insurance- is that in financial terms the providers of health care have probably benefited more than most people in the community from the scheme. However, on behalf of the Government I must refute any suggestion that the Government has been in any way mean in the way in which it has appropriated funds in this Budget. It has been a very difficult Budget to frame because the Government is determined to overcome the inflation plague that has been of great significance to economic management in this country since the Whitlam Government was on the treasury bench. The Government has a real concern and a sense of commitment to people in need and this is demonstrated by the budgetary allocation for the Department of Social Security which has risen to a record $7,009m compared with $6,562m in the previous financial year, an increase of about 6.8 per cent. 
In the short time available to me I would like to devote myself to three specific areas that came up in the debate- hospital beds, health maintenance organisations, and, particularly, the peer review that was raised by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  I would like to thank the honourable member for his constructive contribution to the debate because I share with him the view- indeed, the Government shares with him the view- that one of the great needs in the health care area is to achieve a better level of quality in the delivery of health services. Honourable members may recall that in 1 976, on behalf of the Government, I asked the Australian Medical Association and the medical profession to develop forms of professional standards review and suggested to them that unless they could develop those standards within the profession and develop systems similar to those operating in the United States and elsewhere, this Government could introduce mandatory provisions. This is the last thing I would like to see happen because I believe that it would be very hard to legislate for peer review. I believe that this is a desirable objective that must come from within the ranks of the profession itself. 
The Government has allocated $100,000 to the medical profession to assist it with seminars and overseas research into systems which are operating, and some progress has been made in this direction. At the general assembly of the Australian Medical Association this year it was decided to proceed immediately with the development of that concept in our hospital system. Today I met representatives of the Australian Surgeons Association which believes that the concept should go beyond this as soon as possible and into private practice. I will be meeting the medical profession as soon a possible to allow it to report progress and hopefully next year we will have some well defined plans to implement as a result of the private projects which are under way at the present time. 
The problem of hospital beds was raised by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns).  I thank him for a very constructive contribution to this debate which was largely supported, once again, by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. The honourable member for Isaacs talked about the high utilisation of beds and the relatively large number of beds in Australia. At the present time, according to the publication 'Paying for Health Care' which was produced by the Hospital and Health Services Commission and tabled in this Parliament, we have 6.5 beds per 1,000 head of population in Australia. Associated with this we have a very high utilisation of beds in certain parts of Australia and also a bad distribution of beds in some regions. What we have to ensure is that we get proper utilisation of those beds. The Government is in the process of meeting the State governments to try to bring about utilisation review in the hospitals. We must question very seriously the extent of admissions to hospitals, the extent of surgery and elective procedures undertaken in hospitals, and the length of time that people stay in hospitals. I acknowledge that this is a tremendous task. It is a political task to come to grips with a problem of" this magnitude but the Government is quite determined to make some progress in this area. 
With regard to the health maintenance organisations, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  reported that recently he had had the privilege of looking at the HMO concept in operation in the United States of America. He will recall, of course, that in 1 976 we amended the National Health Act and the Health Insurance Act to make provision for the establishment of the HMO concept in this country, and discussions have been held on it with the Australian Medical Association. I have encouraged, as far as I can encourage, the State governments to co-operate in the development of this concept in Australia. We have thrown down the gauntlet to the health insurance funds. We have been somewhat disappointed at the response to date. The funds would know that health program grants are available for the development of pilot projects. 1 think that with the new health scheme to come into operation on 1 November, with the universal Commonwealth medical benefit, we could have the type of finance that would be necessary within the universality of that concept to help to seed a health maintenance organisation concept in Australia. Once again I put it to the health insurance industry that it should come forward with positive propositions to develop HMOs in regional areas in this country. I will continue to try to encourage that development in Australia. 
I would also like to refer to a couple of other matters that were brought to the attention of the Committee in the course of the debate. The matter of pension indexation was raised by honourable members on both sides of the chamber who expressed concern about the indexation of the age pension as from 1 November. The decision to index pensions annually was taken in the light of the reduction in the rate of inflation already achieved and the anticipated further reduction. With the expectation of a level of inflation of around 5 per cent or less in this financial year it was felt by the Government that the need for a twice yearly indexation was not nearly as pressing as it was when this Government assumed office in 1975 when the inflation rate was well into double figures- about 14 per cent. Twice yearly indexation was introduced when inflation was at that level and it was felt necessary to maintain the purchasing power of pensioners by granting two increases per year. Because of the success that the Government has had in tackling inflation it is not unreasonable to make an adjustment of that nature at this time. I am sure that the pensioners will feel far more secure once we are able to achieve a reduction of the magnitude anticipated. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  mentioned the community health program. He accused the Government of having deserted the concept of community health. I refute that allegation. The Government has called upon the State governments to make a dollar for dollar contribution in the light of their improved financial situation resulting from their receiving 40 per cent of income tax collected. All States have now responded indicating that they will match the Commonwealth grant on a $1 for $1 basis. The New South Wales Government was playing it a bit rough for a day or two, but I noticed that even  Mr Wran  backed down the other day and has decided to match us $ 1 for $ 1 . 

 - Mr Wran has come to the party. The honourable member for Robertson smiles. I am sure he was not smiling when the New South Wales Minister for Health was indicating that the New South Wales Government would not match our expenditure in respect of the community health program. The result of this decision by the New South Wales Minister and the New South Wales Health Commission of course would have been that at least 200 personnel would have been dismissed. Far from abandoning the principles of the community health program the Government has achieved the full co-operation of the State governments on a $ 1 for $ 1 basis. Much of the wastage in the program has been reduced as a result of the new funding arrangements that the Commonwealth has entered into in the last couple of years. When the program was being funded largely by the Commonwealth there was not much desire on the part of the State governments to ensure that the dollars spent in this area were being spent wisely. 
I thank the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  for his invitation to visit the suburb of Earlwood in his electorate to look at the problems associated with caring for the aged. He has made representations to me. He has pointed out that there is a lower number of nursing home beds per head of population in that suburb than there is in the rest of that part of Sydney. I accept his invitation and I will discuss the issues with him and local community people to see whether we can persuade the State people and those advising us on the number of beds that should be available in any region that it would be wise to make more beds available in that area. I will not make a decision on this until I have discussed the issues with my State colleague and also have enabled discussions to take place between officers of my Department and the New South Wales Health Commission. I take the point that there could well be a need in that part of Sydney for additional nursing home accommodation. I also give an assurance to the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  that I will convey to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in due course the views and the suggestions that he has made in regard to the way in which family allowances should be dealt. 
I thank all honourable members for their participation in the debate. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Aboriginal Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $95,907,000. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On Thursday 28 September 1978 I introduced the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 and the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, the provisions of which give effect to the Government's health insurance arrangements to operate from 1 November 1978. The Bill before the House amends the Health Insurance Commission Act 1973 and establishes the role of the Health Insurance Commission in these new arrangements. In framing the revised charter of the Commission, it is the clear intention of the Government that Medibank Private will operate in a competitive position with other health insurance organisations and should be in as flexible a position as possible, having in mind that there is a statutory relationship with the Commonwealth as a Commonwealth authority. 
Before commenting on the specific matters covered by the Bill, I would like to inform honourable members that the principles embodied in the legislation relating to the employment of the staff by the Commission have been discussed with representatives of relevant staff associations whose members are affected by the Government's proposals. I wish to express my appreciation of the considerations and views put forward by the staff association representatives. The Government has taken into account the views of the staff associations in the framing of this legislation. 
The Bill may be divided into four principal parts: 
Firstly, the reconstitution of the Health Insurance Commission; Secondly, the removal of the Medibank Standard functions and the continued operation of Medibank Private; Thirdly, provisions relating to the engagement of staff by the Commission after 1 November 1978 and the terms and conditions applying to the staff; and Fourthly, the transitional provisions necessary to effect the changeover to the new functions of the reconstituted Commission. 
Whilst the Bill does not, in any way, affect the corporate identity of the existing Health Insurance Commission, it does, by the amendments contained in clause 11, provide for the Commission to be reconstituted. Before outlining the constitution of the new Commission, I would like to record the Government's appreciation of the work of the retiring commissioners. There have been substantial changes to the health insurance arrangements during their period of office. It is an indication of their administration that Medibank has continued to operate efficiently and effectively. On behalf of the Government, I would also like to express my appreciation to the General Manager of the Health Insurance Commission,  Mr Ray  Williams, and all his staff for the excellent and dedicated work they have done since Medibank 's inception. I wish the General Manager and the organisation success in the future operation of Medibank Private. The new Commission is to be constituted by up to seven Commissioners, including a  Chairman  and the General Manager of Medibank. All Commissioners, with the exception of the General Manager, will be appointed by the Governor-General on a part-time basis, for a period, not exceeding five years, specified in the instrument of appointment. 
The abolition of Medibank Standard and the transfer to the Department of Health of the administration of various Commonwealth benefits and payments now made by the Commission, means the principal functions of the new Commission will be the management of Medibank Private and payment of the new Commonwealth medical benefit on the same basis as other registered health insurance organisations. The performance of these functions is reflected in the amendments made in clauses 7 and 8 of the 
Bill. Clause 10 of the Bill provides for the Commission to perform such other functions in relation to health insurance as the Minister directs. This provision enables the Commission to pursue government policy objectives in health insurance where so directed. Initially, the only additional function to Medibank Private and the payment of the Commonwealth medical benefit will be the payment of medical benefits under the winding-down of the Medibank Standard functions of the Commission. The Bill provides for any direction of the Minister, relating to additional functions to be performed by the Commission, to be included in the annual report of the Commission. Further, provision is also made for the Minister for Health and the Commission to enter into an agreement for the payment to the Commission of administrative expenses arising out of the performance of functions which are the subject of a direction by the Minister for Health. 
In order that the Commission can compete with the private health funds on an equal footing, the Bill provides that the Commission will no longer be required to seek Public Service Board approval of its terms and conditions of employment and will be subject to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Clauses 32 and 33 of the Bill contain transitional provisions to protect the terms and conditions of existing staff of the Commission. Any changes to the terms and conditions of existing staff will, of course, be discussed by the Commission with relevant staff associations. I should also mention that the Commission management has already agreed with the staff associations that the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act and the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act should continue to apply to all staff of the Commission and the Bill has been drafted to take account of this. 
The Bill provides that the Commission may establish and conduct its own superannuation scheme. However, the intention is that staff who are contributors to the Commonwealth superannuation scheme at the time of the introduction of the Commission's superannuation scheme, or who join the Commission thereafter and are already contributors to Commonwealth superannuation scheme, will retain such membership. Persons who join the Commission staff after the introduction of its scheme, and who are not already contributors to the Commonwealth superannuation scheme, will be able to elect to join the Commission's superannuation scheme or request to be treated under the Superannuation Act 1976. The Bill, in clauses 16,17,19 and Part III gives effect to the above proposals. 
Part IV of the Bill contains transitional provisions. It is accepted that, with the abolition of the Medibank Standard functions of the Commission, there is likely to be a significant number of surplus staff. Discussions have already been held between the relevant staff organisations, my Department, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, the Commission and the Public Service Board about this situation. In the first instance they have concentrated on the transfer of staff associated with bulk billing functions to my Department. At this stage I am unable to give any accurate indication of the number of staff who may ultimately be surplus to the requirements of the Commission as this will be dependent on the market share obtained by the Commission. However, the Bill in clause 31 recognises the need for action to be taken and provides for the Public Service Board to be involved in the redeployment of surplus staff. There will be continuing discussions with the staff associations on this aspect as the situation develops. 
The remaining provision of the Bill to which I would specifically draw the attention of honourable members is clause 34. This provision enables a reconciliation to be effected of the assets andliabilities of the Commission as at 31 October 1978. The Bill provides for the Commonwealth to pay to the Commission an amount which represents the liabilities of the Commission, both current and contingent, which are attributable to the Medibank Standard functions of the Commission. Similarly, provision is included for the Commission to pay to the Commonwealth an amount that represents the value of the assets of the Commission acquired by the Commission in carrying out its Medibank Standard functions. The purpose of this transitional provision is to provide for a distribution of assets and liabilities which properly relates to each of the Medibank Standard and Medibank Private functions as at 31 October 1978. The remaining provisions in the Bill are consequential amendments relating to the reconstitution of the Commission; the abolition of the Commission's Medibank Standard functions; and the inclusion in the Act of more relevant provisions, applying generally to statutory corporations, concerning borrowing and investments by the new Commission and the entering into of contracts by the Commission. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The Commission follows the recommendations on radiation standards of the National Health and Medical Research Council; these follow closely those of the ICRP. 
Yes. 
The USEPA standards promulgated in 1977 refer to exposure of members of the public to radiation in the environment from the normal operation of the US nuclear power cycle. The ICRP has not recommended standards for this limited field. Consequently, no comparison can be made between the two standards. 
Directives under Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act (Question No. 1725) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The results of the 1976-77 survey were communicated to State and Territory health authorities who have the responsibility for public health action in their respective areas. 
I would point out that the vegetable oils covered by this survey had been prepared and packaged before the National Health and Medical Research Council limits had been set. 
The question of vinyl chloride monomer levels in plastics for food contact applications was fully discussed with industry. Co-operation was excellent both from manufacturers and the Plastics Institute of Australia. Immediate steps were taken to survey the situation and to reduce levels of vinyl chloride monomer in polyvinyl chloride containers. 
A further survey of vinyl chloride monomer levels in vegetable oils packaged in PVC containers was carried out in 1977-78 by the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories. This survey involved the analysis of 330 samples of all available brands selected from retail food outlets throughout Australia. 
Only two of these 330 samples contained vinyl chloride monomer levels in excess of the N.H. and M.R.C. recommended maximum level of 0.05mg/kg. 
The date coding on one of these two samples showed that it was packaged in September 1975, that is before the N.H. and M.R.C. limits were recommended. 
The bottle which contained the other defective sample bore no date coding. 
The N.H. and M.R.C. will continue to keep this matter under review and is currently considering lowering the current recommended levels in view of the results of this later survey. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) A private survey of a limited nature was conducted by J. H. Martin of the Cancer Institute, Melbourne in 1955. The Australian Radiation Laboratory has been involved since the mid-50 's in measuring and assessing radiation doses received by patients undergoing specific x-ray examinations, but not at a level suitable for national survey purposes. Apan from the current national survey which is being conducted for the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH &amp; MRC) and which is now nearing completion, the laboratory has made national assessments of population dose resulting from occupational exposure in 1961, 1966-67 and 1971. The latter two were reported to the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects' Of Atomic Radiation. These gave genetically significant doses closely comparable with results obtained in other countries. Since 1956 the Australian Radiation Laboratory has been responsible for monitoring radioactive fallout throughout Australia arising from atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons. The assessment of exposure to the population shows doses resulting from fallout are very small compared with natural background. 
From Martin's figures, the per capita dose from diagnostic radiology can be calculated to be 4.9 rem which is high. 
For diagnostic radiology, per capita doses are 0.5 rem U.S. (1964), 0.6 rem U.S. (1970), 0.4 rem U.K. ( 1957), 0.4 rem N.Z.(1963). 
There is no reason to believe Australian figures should be significantly higher than those in countries with similar medical services. 
Martin's papers were published in medical journals with some recommendations on dose reduction. Independently the NH and MRC has taken the following action: 
Created a Radiation Hazards Committee to investigate the effects of exposure of the population from medical procedures (Report of 43rd Session, 1957, page 14). 
Circulated a Special Report to medical and dental associations (Report of 44th Session, 1957, page 20 and Report of 48th Session, 1 959, page 30) 
Recommended against a survey to evaluate population exposure in 1959 but arranged for administrative and educational action to reduce exposures (Report of 47th Session, 1959, page 14). 
Issued recommendations on radiological examination of pregnant women and of women of reproductive age (report of 5 7th Session, 1964, page 19). 
Discussed with Attorney-General's Department legal requirements for duplication of radiography (Report of 62nd Session, 1966, page 18). 
Published Minimizing Radiological Hazards to Patients (Report of 62nd Session, 1966, page 43). 
The results of Martin's study were considered unreliable as the methods used were not adequately described, measurements were made in only a few hospitals, statistics and child-bearing factors used were of dubious value and a number of unsubstantiated assumptions were made. 
and (8) In 1967, NH &amp; MRC agreed to a nation-wide survey and gave approval and a grant in June 1 969 for it. The survey is to determine genetic and bone-marrow doses to the Australian population from medical, dental and chiropractic radiology, radiotherapy and nuclear medicine. 
The survey commenced in 1970 and is still being undertaken by the Radiation Health Committee of NH &amp; MRC in conjunction with the Australian Radiation Laboratory and with some State Health Department assistance. 
10) Because of (4) and (5) (b) it was felt better to reduce exposures first whenever possible without waiting for a survey to be undertaken. 
No. 
See 11. 
It is expected that measurements and calculations will be finished by the end of 1979 and a report will be then prepared for Council. 
14) Values of 0.5 rem for whole body, gonad and bone marrow dose limits per calendar year for members of the public are recommended by the NH &amp; MRC in its revised radiation protection standards 1967, re-issued 1977. These are in accordance with international recommendations and exclude natural background radiation and radiation received from medical procedures. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The term dioxin refers to a group of substances and not one specific chemical compound. Recent articles in the lay press, however, have used it as a synonym for 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-para dioxin which is also commonly known as TCDD. This substance is not used in the production of polyvinylchloride nor does it occur as a contaminant or by-product during the process of manufacture. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Company promoting this product has been requested to provide data to my Department to establish its quality, safety and efficacy. This has not been forthcoming and consequently no assessment has been made of the effectiveness of so-called B-15. Analyses of samples of the material obtained by my Department have revealed it to be of varying composition. I might add that there is officially no vitamin B-15. 
This drug has not been approved for general marketing for humans in Australia. 
In line with current department policy, permits have been granted to allow importation by private individuals for their personal use on presentation of a doctor's prescription to ensure adequate supervision of treatment and compliance with State legal requirements. The persons are informed individually that, in the absence of relevant scientific data, the Department can give no guarantee of the quality, safety and efficacy of the drug. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Research in Australia is being conducted into the insect vectors of Australian Encephalitis, into animal and bird reservoirs of the disease, the causative virus and other closely related viruses, and into the possible effect of weather patterns on the incidence of the disease. 
Treatment procedures rely in the main on skilled nursing and facilities ibr intensive care, there being no specific antibiotic effective against the virus concerned. 
Since the ecosystem(s) involved differ from those existing in countries such as Japan where vaccines are used, effective application of a vaccine in this country is doubtful. There is no defined animal reservoir which might be vaccinated as is done elsewhere, and this whole matter is still under active consideration by the Expert Working Group on Australian Encephalitis of the National Health and Medical Research Council. Naturally a close watch is kept on research into vaccines being undertaken overseas. 
The Commonwealth contributes towards all the aspects of research mentioned above as being in progress in Australia. In addition, contributions are made by Western Australia and Queensland to specific research projects; Victoria contributes to field studies being undertaken within that State. 
(a) Arrangements exist for continual co-operative Commonwealth-State liaison both on an informal basis and through the National Health and Medical Research Council's Working Party on Australian Encephalitis, which last met on September 27 this year. 
An early warning system is maintained mainly in the form of regular serological studies on sentinel chickens, other birds and animals. Studies on human sera are also undertaken as part of the overall watch on a possible recrudescence of the disease. 
Normal arrangements for media release by appropriate Ministers apply, and the advice of the Working Party is valuable in framing such announcements. 
The States are basically responsible for all health services within their areas of jurisdiction. However, cooperative State/Commonwealth arrangements exist for a coordinated approach to the prevention and control of this disease on a dollar for dollar cost-shared basis. 
Administrative arrangements concerning Departmental responsibilities in the States are naturally the responsibility of individual States, however I am unaware that efficient control is jeopardised in any area. I should point out as mentioned in (3) above, that close co-operation and communication exists between the Commonwealth and the States with regard to control measures. 
The States principally concerned, i.e. Western Australia, South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales have had, for some time, or have recently established, single or co-ordinated health authorities. I understand that communication between these health authorities and other organisations necessarily involved in any control such as State Departments of Agriculture are on an effective basis. 
Depositions in Conspiracy Case 
-The only advice that I have had has been from the honourable member for Prospect. I have asked him to supply me with any evidence that might come into his possession which suggests that such black banning is taking place. So far no evidence has come to me on the issue. However, I did receive an assurance from the representatives of the health insurance funds that they would do everything in their power to take staff that was surplus to the requirements of the Health Insurance Commission in cases where they had vacancies as a result of the changes that would occur to the health insurance system in Australia following the modifications to come into effect on 1 November. I will, however, discuss the matter with the Executive Director of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia. I will report that allegations have been made of this sort of action being taken by some funds, I presume, in New South Wales. I would be surprised if the funds adopted this attitude, in view of the assurances they gave me personally at the meeting that took place soon after the Budget was introduced. If any member of the House has any evidence of such black banning I would be very grateful if he gave it to me. 
I am aware that there is concern amongst members of the staff of the Health Insurance Commission about their future employment. I made it perfectly clear, in making the statement, that there would be staff- the number is yet to be determined- that would be surplus to the requirements of the Health Insurance Commission some time after 1 November. As a consequence of our concern, a very close examination is being undertaken by the Health Insurance Commission, the Department of Health and the Public Service Board of the implications of the new arrangements that will apply. 
I have met the staff associations and have had a lengthy conference with them. The staffing requirements of the Department of Health for certain functions that will go across from the Health Insurance Commission to the Department of Health for the processing of bulk-billed claims for pensioners and disadvantaged people have not yet been finalised. It is expected that offers of employment will be made to a significant number of members of the staff of the Health Insurance Commission in the very near future. I have asked the Health Insurance Commission and the Department of Health to try to expedite their discussions with the Public Service Board so that we can clarify the position of a great number of staff members who, at present, are not quite sure whether they are going to be unemployed. Undoubtedly a number of processing centres will cease to function some time in the New Year. We also have had discussions with the Public Service Board to ensure that where redeployment is possible within the Public Service that will be done. As I indicated earlier, I have had discussions with the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia to try to ensure that where there are vacancies in the funds it should attempt to make every effort to employ those who are surplus to the requirements of the Health Insurance Commission as a result of the new arrangements as from 1 November. I cannot give any guarantee whatsoever that there will be no unemployed people as a result of the changes from 1 November. I have made it very clear that there will be surplus staff after 1 November. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The report on the operations of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations under section 76a of the National Health Act, in respect of the year 1976-77, was tabled on 19 September 1978. 
The Government recognises that the effectiveness of information contained in the report must be reduced by delays in its publication. Steps are being taken to minimise such delays. 
The main reason for the delay in tabling the report under section 76a of the National Health Act in recent years including the 1976-77 Report has been the late lodgment of annual returns by many of the registered organisations. It seems that these delays have been largely due to administrative difficulties within the respective organisations caused by changes to the health insurance arrangements. I understand, for example, that a number of organisations have had transitional problems following major changes to the Scheme from 1 October 1976. 
The organisations in each State which failed to furnish their annual accounts for 1976-77 within the statutory time of three months after the close of the financial year are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
There is no such thing as a 'trial period ' in the new arrangements. A particular feature of these arrangements is their simplicity. Persons without private insurance will receive free accommodation and treatment in shared rooms of recognised hospitals by hospital doctors and Commonwealth medical benefits of 40 per cent of the Schedule fee for medical services or the Schedule fee less $20 whichever is the greater amount. Therefore, uninsured persons have substantial health cover without direct cost to themselves. Bulkbilling arrangements providing higher levels of Commonwealth medical benefits will apply for eligible pensioners and disadvantaged persons. 
A person may wish to take out basic and /or hospital insurance andwill receive immediate cover on becoming a contributor to insurance between 1 November and 31 December 1978. After that period the normal maximum two months' waiting period will apply if the insurance organisation's rules provide for that waiting period. From 1 January 1979 the Government would have no intention of requiring insurance organisations to vary the normal waiting period provisions. 
Public Participation in Transport Planning  (Question No.  2145) 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2), and the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions of course will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. Therefore, I suggest that you permit the subject matter of each of these Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-I move: 
After clause 1 3, insert the following new clause: 1 3a. Section 1 7 of the principal Act is amended by omitting from paragraph (c) of sub-section (1) 'or an approved organization for the purposes of Part IV '. ' 
Section 1 7 of the Health Insurance Act 1973 prohibits the payment of medical benefits by the Commonwealth where a medical service is rendered on the premises of an organisation in receipt of a health program grant under Part IV of the Act. Such organisations include family planning associations. At the present time the family planning associations charge privately insured patients, who then receive benefits from their funds. From 1 November it is proposed to charge patients who would be charged by doctors in private practice. Patients who would be bulk billed by private doctors, that is, pensioner health benefit patients and their dependants and patients classified as disadvantaged, will not be charged. The cost of these services to pensioner health benefits patients and the disadvantaged will be met by means of health program grants. To enable the Commonwealth and the fund benefits to be paid for the charges made by family planning associations and other health program grant organisations where applicable, it is necessary to amend section 17 of the Act. The amendment I have moved achieves that objective. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. The office will service all of the northern part of the State except the area referred to as the central reserves area. 
Early 1980. 
Agreement between Australia and China on Establishment of Consulates-General (Question No. 2199) 
I want to put the record straight in respect of clause 8, which is consequent upon clause 5. It provides for an obligation on pensioners to notify the receipt of income and any other changes in circumstances and is extended to age pensioners aged 70 years and over. What the clause will do will be to make sure that the age pension is going to those in greatest need. For that, as a member of this Government, I make no apology. 
The provisions of this Bill and the social welfare policy provide for an expenditure of $6, 602m this financial year, which is an increase of $399m over that of the previous year- a record expenditure. 
-Indeed not. 
-Indeed not. We are not talking about unemployment benefits. If the honourable member for Prospect wants to add $ 1,000m to that he can. One then gets to the figure of $7,000m, being the total appropriation for social security this financial year. 
I think it is absolute rubbish to talk about the Government applying a means test, if you like. This country has been through a very serious economic situation- let nobody deny that- and its origins lie right with the Australian Labor Party when it was in government. There is not the slightest doubt about that. This Government is attempting to make sure that the resources available to it are going to those in greatest need. To do otherwise when trying to frame the Budget would have been gross irresponsibility. Speaking on behalf of the Government, for that we make no apology. 
I want to respond to the remarks about indexation. If the inflation rate were still at the level it was at when the Fraser Government assumed office I think that the proposition of the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  that there should be quarterly indexation would be very valid. If the inflation rate were 14 per cent, 15 per cent or 16 per cent, out of sheer equity it would be absolutely imperative to have quarterly indexation, which did not occur in the time when honourable members opposite were in government. However, since then the rate of inflation has dropped. Last year's inflation rate was 7.2 per cent. The strategy of this Government is designed to bring the inflation rate down to 5 per cent or less, and in accordance with that objective it was felt that in present economic circumstances the impact of yearly indexation would not bear so heavily upon the people as it would had there been a higher inflation rate. I am sure that that is a matter of logic and I am positive that honourable members opposite would understand it. 
Against that background I think that there is justification for altering the period between adjustments. I would hope to see inflation come down to far less than 5 per cent, to 2 per cent or 3 per cent; but in an inflationary situation it is the people on the lowest income level, the pensioners and people on fixed incomes, who are the greatest sufferers in the community. They are the people who suffered more than any other people in the Australian community during the Whitlam Government's term of office. 
Clause 16 is a beneficial amendment in that it corrects a drafting error which was detected by the Department of Social Security and which had unintended effects. Without this amendment no person would be entitled by law to a supporting parent's benefit unless- 'unless' is the key word in the existing section  83AAD-  action for maintenance has been taken. The amendment will enable a supporting parent's benefit to be granted if- the word 'if is now the key word- the Director-General is satisfied that it is not reasonable to take such action. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 17 to 20- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clauses 2 1 to 23- by leave- taken together. 
I will attempt to do that. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West),  of course, makes great play on the fact that the maternity allowance has been in existence since 1943, long before the national health insurance scheme came into existence. The maternity allowance was introduced to help people generally and it was not subject to a means test. No government, including the Whitlam Government- the Government of the honourable member's political persuasion- saw any necessity to increase the size of that allowance. The purpose of the allowance largely became redundant when the national health scheme was introduced. In regard to the honourable member's other comment about cost I reiterate that those people who are not privately insured and who receive medical attention or procedures within a hospital, regardless of whether they be associated with confinements, are not eligible to pay for their medical costs. They are charged t' the hospital and cost shared between the Commonwealth and the States under the normal cost sharing arrangement. Those who are privately insured would, in the normal way, send their accounts to their health insurance fund for payment. I am certain that if the honourable member looks back into the history and the origins of this allowance he will agree that it was introduced at a time when there was no such thing as a health scheme. It came in during 19S3. 1 do not blame the government of the political persuasion of the honourable member for not adjusting the allowance or bringing it up to date because it introduced Medibank- a universal health insurance scheme- which tended to nullify the necessity for that provision. 
I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a comment from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in another place in respect of clause 23 which will aid in the interpretation of the effect of clause 23. It deals with the compensatory $5.25 a week and also gives an assurance that nobody will suffer as a result. Those receiving the allowance now will not suffer as a consequence of the implementation of clause 23. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

As from 1 January 1 979, there will be no dual payment of TEAS allowance and family allowance. In order to compensate for the loss of family allowance the rates of TEAS allowance for 1979 have been increased by the equivalent of $5.25 a week. 
The present rates of TEAS allowance are $1,250 per annum for a student living at home and $2,075 per annum for a student living away from home. In 1979 these rates will be increased to $1,523 per annum and $2,348 per annum respectively. 
Where a claim for TEAS allowance is made before 3 1 March in any year, the allowance, if approved, is granted with retrospective effect to 1 January. However, in order to prevent the need to recover any family allowance which may have been paid to the student's mother over that period, the arrears of TEAS allowance will be paid at the 1978 rates with the increased rates for 1979 applying from March onwards. 
The Department of Education will liaise closely with the Department of Social Security in order to prevent the situation arising in which an overpayment of family allowances may occur. The increase of $5.25 a week in the rates of TEAS allowance for 1 979 will correspond to the average amount of family allowances lost. 
Question put: 
That the clauses be agreed to. 
I am afraid I cannot allow the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  to mislead- either deliberately or accidentallythose people and those servicemen who are suffering or may suffer at some future time from war-caused tuberculosis. For his benefit and for the benefit of those who may have listened to this parliamentary debate, let me put the record straight. The Government has accepted that the current provisions relating to pulmonary tuberculosis are no longer appropriate. They were introduced at a time when tuberculosis was a serious community health problem with limited prospects of effective control. The situation has changed with the introduction of effective treatment methods based on new drugs. In future, new disability pensions for tuberculosis will be granted only for the service related tuberculosis and the level of pension will be dependent on the degree of actual incapacity involved. It has been decided to freeze at the May 1978 cash level the pensions of those who currently receive 100 per cent general rate pension, and they number some 5,900 beneficiaries. 
Those on higher pensions will be unaffected until their actual incapacity is assessed at less than the 100 per cent general rate when the freeze at the May 1978 cash level will apply. Those who have had disability pensions frozen will have their incapacity reviewed to assess the actual level of incapacity for tuberculosis and other disabilities. There will be no longer a specific tuberculosis service pension. Existing service pensioners will continue to be eligible for increases in the service pension. Therefore, the new provisions will mean that tuberculosis is placed on the same footing as any other illness or disability in considering eligibility for repatriation pensions. Those servicemen who have war caused disabilities arising from tuberculosis - 
-Whether it be in Vietnam, Malaysia or Korea, it does not matter. If it was contracted in the period of their service and the disability was caused therefrom, they would receive the same disability pension for tuberculosis as they would for a wound. That is the record. It needs to be placed squarely because I think there is some confusion in the minds of people. I am charitable enough to believe that the honourable member for Grayndler was as confused as anybody on the issue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
in reply- I shall reply briefly to two matters that are of considerable importance to people. The first relates to the staff of the Health Insurance Commission. Several speakers in this debate have in fact raised this problem and have indicated in their addresses to this chamber that the Government is not concerned to try to assist in the redeployment of staff. I want to refute that suggestion. I stated in my second reading speech that the Government accepted that with the abolition of the Health Insurance Commission a significant number of staff would be surplus. We are well aware of the situation and we are concerned about it. Discussions have been held with the various staff associations. Discussions have taken place between the Health Insurance Commission, the Department of Health, the  Department  of Employment and Industrial Relations and the Public Service Board. They have also taken place with the various staff associations. We are well aware of the problem. I refer those honourable members to what I said in my second reading speech. I stated: 
In the first instance they have concentrated on the transfer of staff associated with bulk billing functions to my Department. At this stage I am unable to give any accurate indication of the number of staff who may ultimately be surplus to the requirements of the Commission as this will be dependent on the market share obtained by the Commission. However, the Bill . . . recognises the need for action to be taken and provides for the Public Service Board to be involved in the redeployment of surplus staff. 
For the benefit of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  I give the assurance that that problem is being taken care of in the normal process of negotiations between the staff associations and the Public Service Board. Continuing discussions will be held with the staff associations on this aspect if an adverse situation develops. 
I refer to the question of bulk billing and to the definition of a disadvantaged person. The Government has deliberately not attempted to define a disadvantaged person because, in so doing, quite obviously it could compound what is a very difficult problem of identification and in fact could cause hardship. We have broadly outlined in the second reading speech and also in communications with every practising doctor in Australia the fact that we will give consideration to the groups listed in the second reading speech. We will monitor closely the operation of this provision. If honourable members on either side of the House come into contact with people facing difficulties, I and my Department will want to hear about them because we intend to take whatever action is necessary to overcome any difficulties that may result from this provision. I will not forecast now that the provision will cover every situation. I have had assurances from the medical profession through its various representative organisations- not only the Australian Medical Association but also the Doctors Reform Group and doctors throughout Australia generallythat they are prepared to co-operate with this proposal to the maximum extent. If it does not work we will have a look at another means of identification. If we had to introduce a means test there could be nothing more demeaning for people than going to offices of the Department of Social Security to fill out a form and declare themselves as disadvantaged. I think that would be most demeaning. So, there is no way that we will attempt to identify disadvantaged people in that manner. 
I give an assurance on behalf of the Government that the matter will be kept well in view. I will be watching it very closely. We have set up a group and I have asked the AMA to provide a representative on that group to monitor its operations in the first six months. I take the opportunity of thanking the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  the  Chairman  of the Government members Health and Welfare Committee, for his very constructive speech and for the work that his Committee has done in assisting the Government in the formulation of its policy in the health insurance area. The honourable member for Bonython also raised some questions which I would be prepared to discuss with him privately. I would certainly make officers available to him to try to satisfy his queries in regard to. I think, four important questions that he raised. Since we have reached this hour of the night I would like to conclude the debate on this Bill. 
For the payment of a 75 per cent refund of the common fee for medical bills. 
If you do not give me leave to include it I would like to have it recorded in  Hansard  because it is obviously the intention of the paragraph. 

Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Kingman's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) The Department of Social Security does not knowingly grant pensions or benefits to persons who have entered Australia without an entry permit. However, eligibility for pensions or benefits is not conditional on the possession of an entry permit. 
The general position in relation to Vietnamese 'boat people' is that they are given temporary entry permits to regularise their immigration status while investigations continue. As a consequence it would be exceptional if any Vietnamese people who originally came to Australia as 'unauthorised arrivals' are receiving Social Security benefits while not holding entry permits. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, but  Dr Hancock  in the same report went on to say  This cannot be statistically proven '. 
In the 12 years from 196S to 1976, four deaths from leukaemia occurred in the population centred around Oenpelli (approximately SOO) in a total of 19 deaths from the same cause registered in the population of the Northern Territory (approximately 100,000). The total figures are unlikely to represent the actual incidence of leukaemia in the Territory as non-permanent residents with diseases such as leukaemia, often return to their home States. 
As to carcinoma of the lung, one death occurred in an Oenpelli resident out of 1 14 deaths attributed to carcinoma of the lung registered in the Northern Territory over the same period. 
and (3) Health services to the Oenpelli population, including regular medical visits, have been maintained since October 1973. From then to the present time one death due to leukaemia has occurred and is included in the four referred to in ( 1 ). 
Deaths from leukaemia and other neoplasms of the haemopoietic system in Australia as a whole varied from 12 to 14 per 100,000 for the years 1965 to 1976 inclusive. The total number of deaths recorded in the Northern Territory from this cause is therefore low and indicates incomplete reporting and rapid population turnover. The four deaths from leukaemia reported from the Oenpelli region in the same period is not statistically significant, as to compile a mortality rate from such a small number of cases and a small population over a 12 year period is quite misleading. 
General health services will continue to develop as they have in recent years. A study to establish baseline social and health data is being planned in co-operation with the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. Specific monitoring of radiation and any possible effects will be mandatory with any commencement of uranium mining and back-ground sampling has already been undertaken by the Australian Radiation Laboratory. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
It is my understanding that psychotropic and other drugs were also administered to the patients concerned, that some of the patients were transferred to other institutions and not discharged as reported, and that the study was performed without a comparison group receiving vitamin treatment. Although benefit was observed in some patients it is not possible to conclude from a study of this design to which component or components of the treatment the benefit was due. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has not received any application for assistance with scientific research into this question. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The 230 food additives referred to in the answer to question No. 491 (4)  (Hansard,  1 June 1976, page 278 1 ) include all food additives approved for use in Australia except food flavours. 
Food flavours are not subject to licensing for use in Australia. Food flavours have not been evaluated in Australia. 
Yes. Before approval for the use of a food additive in Australia is given, it must be fully evaluated on both technological and toxicological grounds by the Food Science and Technology Subcommittee (FST) of the National Health and Medical Research Council (N.H and M.R.C.) by examination of all available scientific data both here and from overseas. 
Yes. In some instances Australia permits higher levels of certain additives than other countries but the converse is also true. 
The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives evaluates food additives on the basis of all available toxicological data and where appropriate establishes 'acceptable daily intakes' and chemical specifications for the additives only. 
A country when setting maximum permitted levels for additives in particular foods must take account of the dietary intakes within the community to ensure that the acceptable daily intake is not exceeded. Hence differing dietary patterns in different countries may lead to different levels being set. 
Comparing the situation as regards food colours here to that in the UK, USA and Canada- probably the most advanced countries in this respect- it is seen that: 
in the UK and the USA these additives are in general used in food in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice and no levels have been set; 
Australia and Canada have maximum permitted levels. For some of the permitted colours the Canadian level is higher and vice versa. However, the levels set in these two countries are essentially of the same order. 
All permitted food additives are subject to continuing review by the FST in the light of changing conditions and new scientific information. Any changes made to the approval of an existing food additive are published in the Session Reports of the N.H. and M.R.C. These are available through the Australian Government Publishing Service outlets. 
5) No. Facilities do not exist in Australia for the extensive testing required. 
However full details of pharmacological and toxicological investigations carried out according to the general terms of reference given in World Health Organisation Technical Report Series, No. 144 'Procedures for the testing of intentional food additives to establish their safety for use' are required by the FST before the evaluation of a food additive is commenced. 
Such information is obtained through the scientific literature and from international expert bodies such as the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives. 
The initial toxicological testing of food additives is generally carried out jointly by Government and industry, but not in Australia. Such tests must conform with strict controls in order to be acceptable. 
Once approved, all food additives must comply with Specifications of Identity and Purity as recommended by the N.H and M.R.C. 
The membership of the present Food Standards Committee is as follows: 
Professor R. A. Edwards, School of Food Technology, University of New South Wales (Chairman) 

 Dr R. H. C. Fleming, Director, Food and Nutrition Section, Commonwealth Department of Health  (Deputy Chairman and Convener) 

 Mr D. R. Barnes, Assistant Secretary, Department of Primary Industry, Canberra. 

 Dr C. Hudson, Council of Australian Food Technology Associations (Davis Gelatine (Aust. ) Pty Ltd). 

 Mr R. C. Norris, Australian Government Analyst, Department of Science, Canberra. 

 Mr G. L. Robinson, Chief Health Surveyor, South Australian Health Commission. 

 Mr M. V. Tracey, Chief, Division of Food Research, CSIRO, North Ryde, NSW. 

 Mr M. P. Jackson, Principal Chemist, Commonwealth Department of Health (Secretary). 
The membership of the present Nutrition Committee is as follows: 
Professor R. H. Thorp, representative on Council of the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations (Chairman). 

 Dr M. Gracey, Head, Gastroenterological Research Unit, Princess Margaret Children's Medical Research Foundation, Subiaco, Western Australia. 

 Dr B. S. Hetzel, Chief, Division of Human Nutrition (CSIRO) South Australia. 
Professor C. Kidson, Professor of Biochemistry, University of Queensland. 
Miss C. N. Turner, Chief Research Dietitian, Cancer Institute, Melbourne. 
Miss M. W. Corden, Principal Nutritionist, Commonwealth Department of Health (Convener and Secretary). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, my Department is aware of these reports. 
A full and detailed occupational health service is provided for all employees of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights. An investigation led by Professor David Ferguson of the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, University of Sydney into the health of employees at Lucas Heights has been undertaken and in the preliminary report there was no evidence to show that the health of employees was being affected because of the nature of the industry. 
and (4) The assessment of risk associated with exposure to low levels of radiation and the establishment of valid conclusions from statistical comparisons between radiation workers and other comparable groups is difficult because the risk is low. Very large numbers are therefore required in order to reach statistically reliable conclusions. For this reason, a major international study is being set up under the auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency to collect and collate world-wide data. Australia will be a participant in this study through the Australian Radiation Laboratory, and statistical data from Australian facilities and comparable groups will be included. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Law Reform Commission's Report on Human Tissue Transplants, which was tabled in the House on 22 September 1977, made various recommendations for the control of human tissue transplants including corneal transplants. The Commission submitted with its report a draft Bill for an ACT Ordinance to control, amongst other things, the removal of human tissues for transplantation and suggested that the draft Bill may be suitable as a model for uniform State and Territory legislation. 
Legislation to give substantial effect to the Commission's recommendations is currently being prepared for the ACT. It is hoped that the early introduction of this legislation will be followed by the introduction of corresponding legislation in the States. 
I have not received any request from the sponsors to support this Congress. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The answer to the question appeared in  Hansard  on 19 September 1 978. The answer to question No. 1 674 reads as follows: 
The guidelines governing the exercise of the Departmental discretions in the administration of the laws governing the functions of the Department of Social Security are presently being reviewed to enable the Department to comply with the provisions of the Freedom of information legislation when it becomes law. Upon the completion of the review and the preparation of documents in a form which enables their release to the public these documents will be available to Members of Parliament. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The answer to the question appeared in  Hansard  on 27 September 1978. The answer to question No. 1675 is as follows: 
The guidelines governing the exercise of the Departmental discretions in the administration of the laws governing the functions of the Department of Social Security are presently being reviewed to enable the Department to comply with the provisions of the Freedom of Information legislation when it becomes law. Upon the completion of the review and the preparation of documents in a form which enables their release to the public these documents will be available to Members of Parliament. 
Employment of Public Servants and Defence Personnel after Hours and during Leave Periods (Question No. 2132) 
I am aware of conflicting statements that have been made by certain public figures. The honourable member for Prospect, for instance, advised people last week not to insure privately unless they had a history of chronic illness or unless they were parents of large families. I regard that as being a totally irresponsible statement. I support the statement made by the New South Wales Minister for Health,  Mr Kevin  Stewart who, although a Labor man, is adopting a far more responsible position in this issue than are members of the Opposition. It is a matter for decision by the individual. The compulsory element of the present arrangements will go out of existence after 1 November. But at a time when health insurance premiums, particularly for the medical table, will fall, I think it would be most unwise for those people who are presently privately insured to drop their health insurance cover, thus losing their entitlement to choose their doctor for medical services in hospital and thus being eligible to receive only 40 per cent of the schedule fee. 
A lot of people may not understand that if they decide to insure themselves for a doctor of their choice in hospital unless they also take out private medical insurance they will be eligible to receive only the Commonwealth benefit. Where a number of medical procedures are involved, people might have to pay a considerable amount unless they insure for the difference between the Commonwealth medical benefit and the basic 75 per cent or the 100 per cent cover. I think people need to bear that point in mind. Those people on higher income levels undoubtedly will be able to bear the cost; but people on lower levels of income or people who are likely to have a history of medical problems- nobody can forecast whether one is likely to have a series of health problems- would be wise to take the precaution of either maintaining their cover or taking insurance. After 1 November levy payers will receive the universal medical benefit of 40 per cent. If they want to maintain the present level of benefit, that is, 75 per cent with a maximum payment of $10 for a medical service where the schedule fee is charged, they will need to insure for the gap. I think the advertising program in which we have engaged will enable people to make a wise decision. I caution against the giving of irresponsible advice between now and 1 November. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the question appeared in  Hansard  on 12 October 1978. The answer to question No. 1676 reads as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Social Security does not knowingly grant pensions or benefits to persons who have entered Australia without an entry permit. However, eligibility for pensions or benefits is not conditional on the possession of an entry permit. 
The general position in relation to Vietnamese 'boat people ' is that they are given temporary entry permits to regularise their immigration status while investigations continue. As a consequence it would be exceptional if any Vietnamese people who originally came to Australia as 'unauthorised arrivals' are receiving Social Security benefits while not holding entry permits. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2090 in the  Hansard  of 17 October 1978 (page 1972). 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the question appeared in  Hansard  on 17 October 1 978. The answer to question No. 2069 is as follows: 
The guidelines governing the exercise of the Departmental discretions in the administration of the laws governing the functions of the Department of Social Security are presently being reviewed to enable the Department to comply with the provisions of the Freedom of Information legislation when it becomes law. Upon the completion of the review and the preparation of documents in a form which enables their release to the public these documents will be available to Members of Parliament. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) All States have increased their Budget allocations for home help services in 1978-79. The Minister for Social Security advised the Senate of the amounts provided by each State on 19 September 1978  (Hansard,  page 72 1 ). 
See (1)above 
In view of the additional allocations for these services by the State and Commonwealth Governments during 1978-79 no increased costs to users, or to local government bodies, are envisaged. 
Directorships in the Australian Industry Development Corporation and Commonwealth Hostels Ltd  (Question No. 916) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to his Question No. 2090  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States (Question No. 2118) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Presumably the question concerns refractive visual errors in children necessitating the wearing of spectacles. If this is so, I regret that I have no figures available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I agree with the honourable member that accurate assessment of the interactions involving commonly used drugs and Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) would be highly desirable. However, this would require a great deal of highly complex research involving volunteers. To cover in this country the whole field of possible interactions would be an enormous task and possibly beyond local resources; although some research has been carried out here. With regard to overseas research, steps are taken to obtain relevant scientific papers as they become available. 
As indicated in my answer to question 1689 (2) and (3), there is at present no simple method of carrying out measurement of THC in the blood and it has not been possible so far to provide an accurate correlation between THC levels in the blood and impairment of driving skills. In Australia the laws concerning use by individuals of cannabis and those relating to driving are princpally the responsibility of the States. 
Yes. 
See 2 above. Insofar as the Commonwealth is concerned changes in cannabis laws, such as have occurred in several States of U.S.A., are closely monitored by my Department. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The fringe benefits income test relates to income other than the pension. Therefore increases in the pension rates have no effect on pensioners ' eligibility for fringe benefits. 
Statistics are not collected on the number of pensioners who lose eligibility for fringe benefits. However, the proportion of age, invalid and widow pensioners and recipients of wife's pension eligible for fringe benefits has remained fairly constant in recent years despite the income limits not having been indexed. The proportion at the end of each financial year was (a) 1975-76, 79.1 per cent; (b) 1976-77, 80.3 percent; (c) 1977-78, 80.2 percent. 
Primary Producers in receipt of Unemployment Benefit  (Question No. 2467) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Statistics of the number of primary producers in receipt of unemployment benefit are collected on a four-weekly basis. The following tables show the number of primary producers receiving unemployment benefit at the end of each fourweekly period during the past twelve months, by State and by category of primary production: 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
The first amendment relates to clause  40  of the Health Insurance Bill (No.  2) 1978.  It amends the head of agreement contained in schedule  2  of the Health Insurance Act  1973.  Clause  40,  paragraph (a) of the Bill amends paragraphs  7  and  8  of schedule  2  and replaces references to privately insured persons with references to hospital insured persons. However, paragraph  7  also contains a reference to privately insured persons and it is necessary that this term be substituted with a reference to hospital insured persons. The amendment passed by the Senate provides accordingly and it is accepted by the Government. 
The next amendment relates to clause  43.  Clause  42  of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No.  2) 1978  which was passed by the House of Representatives on  12  October  1978  related to the payment of claims for Medibank standard medical benefits outstanding as at  1  November  1978.  It provided for the repayment of such claims to be made in such a manner as the Minister for Health determines. The Senate has amended clause  10  of the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill  1978  which inserts new part  11B  and which relates to the additional functions of the Commission. This amendment which is acceptable to the Government specifically provides in proposed new section  8D  that the Commission will meet, until a date to be proclaimed, claims for medical benefits referred to in clause  43  of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill No.  2 (1978).  Clause  43  of the Bill considered by the Senate was clause  42  of the Bill passed earlier by the House. Consequent upon the amendment made by the Senate to the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill  1978,  it was necessary for the Senate to amend the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No.  2) 1978  to ensure that the provisions of clause  43  would be subject to new section  8D  of the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill  1978.  The amendment provides accordingly and is accepted by the Government. 
-I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill 1978 is being amended. The amendment is to clause 10. The Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill 1978 was passed by the House of Representatives on 12 October 1978. Since that time some concern has been expressed at the very wide powers of direction conferred on the Minister by the provisions in the legislation passed by the House. These powers were contained in clause 10 which inserted new Part IIB Additional Functions of the Commission. This Part provided for the Commission, in addition to operating Medibank Private, to perform such other functions in relation to health insurance as the Minister for Health directed. Provision was made for the Minister, on behalf of the Commonwealth and the Commission, to enter an agreement concerning the payment of administrative expenses to the Commission arising out of the performance of additional functions at the Minister's direction. 
New Part IIB was included in the legislation to enable future government objectives in health insurance to be implemented through the Health Insurance Commission. For example, the Government may wish to establish on a pilot basis a health maintenance organisation in a particular area in which the registered organisations have not shown interest. Specifically, it was to allow initially for the payment of Medibank Standard claims for medical benefits outstanding at 1 November 1978 to be paid by the Commission after that date. The Government has considered the views put forward that, used irresponsibly, the provisions originally contained in the Bill could, for example, enable any Minister administering the Act from time to time, to place Medibank Private in a more competitive position, to the detriment of other registered organisations, and has accepted that the provisions conferring comprehensive powers of direction on the Minister in new Part IIB should be deleted. Accordingly clause 10 was amended in the Senate to provide that the Commission, in addition to operating Medibank Private shall under proposed new sub-section 8D until a date fixed by proclamation, receive and deal with and pay Medibank Standard claims for medical benefits. It is envisaged that, following the proclaimed date, further outstanding Medibank Standard claims would be met by the Department of Health. Proposed new section 8ad ( 1 ) refers to the performance of such other functions in relation to health insurance as are prescribed by regulations. The regulations may also prescribe the manner in which such functions are to be performed. Provision is still made for the Minister on behalf of the Commonwealth to enter into an agreement concerning administrative expenses incurred by the Commission associated with its performance of prescribed functions as provided in amended Part IIB. It is reasonable that the administrative expenses of the Commission in performing government initiated functions should not be a cost borne by Medibank Private, having regard to its competitive position with other registered organisations. However, proposed new sub-section 8DB (2) provides that any such agreement shall be placed before Parliament within 15 sitting days of the entering into of the agreement. 
The Government believes that the above amendments will permit the full disclosure of any additional government initiated functions in relation to health insurance to be performed by the Commission and the arrangements between the Government and the Commission in the performance of those functions. The amendment would still enable future government initiated proposals in relation to health insurance to be pursued through the Health Insurance Commission. The amendment is accepted by the Government. 
I wish to refute what the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  had to say. I have not had one health insurance fund make representations to me on this issue. However, a number of Government members- quite a small number- members on the Government parties' Health and Welfare Committee brought this matter to my attention. Once this matter had been brought to my attention, I became extremely concerned that the Bill would confer such inordinate power on a Minister. For example, he could furnish an instruction to the Health Insurance Commission without that instruction ever seeing the light of day until such time as the Commission reported to the Parliament. The Parliament would have no right to debate the issue and would have no powers of rejection or acceptance. As a result of my discussions with those who brought the issue to my attention I took the initiative and made every effort to ensure that proper procedures would be adopted and proper respect be given to the Parliament. I hope that the way in which this provision has been redrafted becomes a blueprint for all ministerial prerogatives and powers relating to statutory corporations and bodies in this country. I think it is a model piece of drafting as it now stands. As it stood before it certainly left a lot to be desired. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Director-General of Health for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The registration committee which is established under the National Health Act is responsible for examining the applications that are made by the funds in respect of their tables, and the funds are supposed to provide rules. As a matter of fact, our registration committee and my departmental officers gave priority consideration and attention to the premium rates for each one of the tables so that the funds would be able to offer their premium rates by 1 November. Some of the funds have not yet submitted rules, but HCF's integrated rules came into the hands of my Department on 24 October and the day before that, 23 October, an officer of my Department informed HCF that the rates and the tables had been approved by the Minister. I approved the rates and the tables once the registration committee recommended that I approve them. But the rules had not been thoroughly investigated. They are the subject of the closest scrutiny. The rules are a document about an inch thick and we are going through them with a fine tooth comb to ensure that HCF does not discriminate against chronically ill or other sick people again. 
The Government will proceed to take whatever action is necessary to prohibit the health funds from applying new benefits exclusions to contributors who maintain health insurance at levels above the basic table after 1 November. The Government also will act to prevent health funds from applying rules in their medical tables that result in benefits exclusions on the grounds of chronic illness or old age. For new contributors to tables providing medical benefits above the basic benefits table, registered health funds will be prevented from reducing benefits below the basic 75 per cent of the schedule fee with the $ 10 gap. That includes, of course, the Commonwealth medical benefit. These restrictions on the funds will apply as from 1 November. A thorough review of all the rules and exclusions in the medical tables and hospital tables also is currently under way. This review is being done by my Department as a matter of urgency. The Government will examine the report on this survey and take whatever additional actions are necessary to prevent the funds from abusing the flexible guidelines applicable to the optional tables to the disadvantage of contributors. 
There are a couple of things I want to respond to immediately. I want to correct the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in respect of the public relations consultant. He was not appointed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). His  contract concluded on 1 November and he is not responsible for any of the public relations matters to which the honourable member has referred. In regard to the confusing issue, I might say that health insurance has always been something of an enigma to a great percentage of people in this country and there has never been a change to the health insurance system which has not involved a considerable amount of confusion. This is largely due to the fact that in Australia we have about 80 health insurance funds that offer a variety of packages. This represents a considerable problem of choice to people. 
Indeed, the story is that when the national health scheme was introduced in 1953 there was great confusion. There was confusion in the Parliament at that time. In fact, the story is that, as the Prime Minister of the day was leaving this chamber and returning to his office after hearing the then Minister for Health  Sir Earle  Page announce the new health scheme, the Prime Minister was asked by a journalist: 'Prime Minister, do you understand this health scheme?'  His  response was: 'Yesterday there were three of us who did- the Almighty,  Sir Earle  Page and me- but after tonight you can count me out'. Let us face it, it always has been a relatively confusing issue. Let nobody say that the introduction of the Medibank scheme did not cause massive confusion. It certainly did. 
We as a government have attempted to simplify the issue of health insurance as much as possible. We have maintained the universal cover concept which was a very desirable feature of the Medibank principle. I will admit that the scheme that went to bed on 31 October was a very complex- indeed, a confusing- scheme and a very difficult one to administer, but it achieved an objective in bringing about a slowing down in the rate of increase in health costs in this country. I reject completely the assertion by the honourable member for Prospect that the Government has failed adequately and equitably to provide for the health insurance needs of the community. I might say that the record of the Australian Labor Party in this area should never be forgotten. In fact, I do not think that its health record will ever be forgotten because it was during the Australian Labor Party's 3-year term in office that Australians suffered the greatest explosion in health costs in the history of this country. 
The medical profession consistently warned the then Government that its ill conceived, openended arrangements would lead to a great explosion in health costs. Yet that profession stood to gain most out of the scheme financially. Indeed, it did. Let us look at the great movements that occurred in doctors' schedule fees. Using 100 as the base, the accumulated percentage increase from when the Australian Labor Party took office to November 1975 was 58.9 per cent. 
The record of this Government has been far different. On 1 January 1977 doctors' fees increased on average by 7.5 per cent. Due to another tribunal determination on 1 January 1978 doctors' fees increased on average by a further 7.3 per cent. A few months ago the Australian Medical Association, to its credit, announced that it would co-operate with the Government and with the community and would make its contribution towards restraint by agreeing to a freeze on fees until 1 November 1979. That should not be forgotten because so many people in the community are ready to abuse the medical profession and to blame it for the great problems that have occurred. That is the only professional group in the communityundoubtedly it can afford to do so because of the way in which the former Government bloated its members' incomes- that has made the gesture of freezing its fees until 1 November 1 979. 
So let not the Opposition try to make out that its record in the health area has been anything but disastrous. The Labor Party's record is so poor that it should not be casting a stone at this Government in regard to health systems. The Labor Party's three years in government saw the most wanton expenditure of taxpayers' funds in the history of the Commonwealth. This extravaganza occurred not only in the health area but also in every section of administration. We had record rates of inflation of up to 17 per cent per annum and more. Whom did that hurt most in the community? It did not hurt the wealthy members of the community, the investors and those people with capital which enabled them to achieve capital gain; it hurt people in the poorer sections of the community more than anybody else. 
When this Government was elected to office in 1975 it had no alternative but to face up to the unpleasant task of trying to restructure the whole health insurance system. No responsible government could stand by and see the health system break down under its own financial burden. Apart from restoring doctor fee increase moderation, we removed at least some of the burden from Consolidated Revenue by the decisions we took in 1976. The costs of the health system were weighing heavily on the taxpayers' pockets. Under the universal system that existed then, an 85 per cent benefit, with a $5 gap, was available to every person in the community no matter how wealthy he was. To a very large extent we reduced exploitation in the pathology area. We are still working on that. Very shortly I will table in this Parliament a further report from the pathology committee. We are still not particularly happy with the degree of excess in services that continues to exist in the area. Nonetheless, we have reduced the great acceleration in that area. 
We have rewritten the Commonwealth-State hospitals agreements, which were open-ended and provided for no accountability. Officers of the Commonwealth and the States have joined together in what are called the CommonwealthState officials committees, which have been established in every State to undertake the process of proper budgeting. Many measures have been taken to try to reduce the abuses and rip-offs that became a feature of the former scheme. It has been a constant battle to bring the Labor Government's undisciplined mess under reasonable control. The latest statistics, prepared by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the Department of Health and the consultant firm involved, that were released the other day demonstrate that to the year ended 30 June 1977 we achieved remarkable success. That is now a public document. 
As I said earlier, the modified Medibank system which we introduced on 1 October 1976- the first modification- helped to make people generally more cost conscious in the whole health area, whether they were providers or users of the system. The scheme was complex. It certainly was difficult to administer. I would be the first to admit that. It was costly to the individual. The new scheme which began operating on 1 November this year has simplified the universal health insurance system and to some extent has reduced the burden upon the individual. The honourable member for Prospect was the first to admit that. He said that perhaps we should be saying more about the universal Commonwealth benefit that is available to all people- the fact that every Australian is entitled to standard ward hospital accommodation at no cost to him. I would be surprised if the great bulk of the Australian people did not understand that. I would have been surprised if they had not understood it when Medibank first came in. 
The fact seems to be that the great percentage of the Australian people have a predisposition to seek to obtain private insurance for additional cover and to seek to insure themselves for doctorofchoice for hospital attention. It is arguable whether they are better off doing so. From time to time I have heard the debate on that go on and on in this place. Perhaps there is merit in some of the arguments that are advanced by the Opposition on the issue. Nonetheless, the Australian people have made their choice. Despite all the changes to the health insurance system, despite universality, despite the fact that they could have obtained universal cover for a family for a maximum of $300 a year, the majority of the people covered themselves for more expensive health insurance. Why did they do so? The surveys seem to indicate that they did it because they wished to have their doctor of choice treat them in hospital. Many of them cover and want to cover themselves for dental treatment and for a range of other ancillary benefits. 
What the honourable member for Prospect is saying really is that the Australian people are dumb; that they are stupid; that they do not know what they are doing; that they cannot think. We are wasting a lot of money on education in this country if the great majority of the people- we are talking about 70 per cent of the Australian people- have not been able to think out what they want, even when the Labor Party introduced its Medibank scheme, when it provided expensive universal cover and when 70 per cent of the Australian people insured themselves for their choice of doctor and other ancillary benefits. I have spoken to many people on the issue. I am quite satisfied that they know what they are doing. I am quite satisfied that they have decided that they do want the right to choose a doctor when they are having major surgical treatment, particularly in the teaching hospitals. 
The honourable member can go out and say that. He is telling people not to insure privately. That is his view; but there is a divided view and he is amongst the minority. He has not convinced many people not to insure privately; let us face that fact. The whole campaign of the 
Australian Labor Party in 1975 when it introduced Medibank proved to be a disaster. The Labor Party expected that people would all fall into the Medibank pool but they did not. They were covered for medical expenses but they did not all settle for standard hospital accommodation. 
These changes undoubtedly are equitable. There has not been any great public protest about the changes we introduced to take effect on 1 November. I thought that the Opposition was generally in favour of the basic thrust that the Government has taken to maintain universal cover, to take away compulsion and to return to a voluntary system, but at the same time to provide for catastrophic insurance, if one likes to call it that, so that even if people do nothing it will never cost them more thay $20 for any service no matter how expensive it is, provided the doctor charges the schedule fee. So, the scheme is equitable. Certainly, there have been difficulties with one fund in respect of chronicity. 
While Labor was in office the chronicity provisions were allowed to prevail in respect to the higher tables and they applied to the hospital tables as well. 
They were there for the three years that Labor was in government. They have been there since 1953. Obviously we are not going to stand by and allow a fund to penalise a family that has been contributing for 10 years to a table above the basic table. 
I agreed to the tables and to the rates, but I never had the rules submitted to me and the final rules did not come to my Department until after the Registration Committee approved the tables and the rules. We had to approve the rates as a matter of priority so that all funds could offer their premiums to their contributors. At present we are going through them very carefully. We do not anticipate that we will have any great difficulty with any of the other funds. In future, no fund will be able to apply the chronicity rule in the way that the Hospitals Contribution Fund tried to apply it to contributors who had contributed to that fund for many years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Implementation of many of the recommendations contained in this report would have far reaching effects. For this reason the report and recommendations are, deservedly, being very carefully studied. The study will shortly be completed and I hope to be making a statement in the House on the matter before the close of the current sittings. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the question appeared in  Hansard  on 24 October 1978. The answer to question No. 2070 reads as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Social Security does not knowingly grant pensions or benefits to persons who have entered Australia without an entry permit. However, eligibility for pensions or benefits is not conditional on the possession of an entry permit. 
The general position in relation to Vietnamese 'boat people ' is that they are given temporary entry permits to regularise their immigration status while investigations continue. As a consequence it would be exceptional if any Vietnamese people who originally came to Australia as 'unauthorised arrivals* are receiving Social Security benefits while not holding entry permits. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. These standards apply specifically to discharges from nuclear power stations of which there are none in Australia. However, if at some future time a nuclear power station is established here, the relevance of the U.S. standards will be considered when establishing appropriate standards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Spraying of cabins and baggage compartments of aircraft arriving in Australia was first introduced shortly after World War II. 
The ingredient in the aerosol spray currently used in the cabin is d-phenothrin in Freon propellant. For the cargo hold the aerosol spray contains d-phenothrin, pyrethrin and piperonyl butoxide with Shellsol T in Freon propellant. 
The specific aim of aircraft disinsection as carried out by aerosol spraying is to: eliminate vectors of human disease eliminate vectors of exotic animal diseases eliminate insects which may be significant agricultural, horticultural or forestry pests. 
Aircraft disinsection is carried out as a three part process. An initial spray treatment is carried out in the passenger cabin whilst passengers are on board and is designed to kill or stun insects which might otherwise escape from the cabin during disembarkation. When disembarkation is completed, a second spray treatment designed to kill all insect life in the cabin is carried out. Cargo holds are also disinsected thoroughly on arrival or, in the case of Qantas 747 aircraft, by the use of an automatic disinsection device developed by the airline in close consultation with the Department and with CSIRO. 
(a) For cabin aerosols the concentration is 2 per cent d-phenothrin. For cargo space aerosols, concentrations are 2 per cent d-phenothrin, 2.5 per cent pyrethrin, 1.25 per cent piperonyl butoxide and 6.25 per cent Shellsol T. 
Exposure periods for sprays are two minutes for the cabin before disembarkation of passengers; five minutes after passengers have disembarked and ten minutes for the baggage compartment, except for Qantas aircraft which have automatic disinsection of baggage compartments. 
It is not understood what the honourable member refers to as 'faith healing'. Disinsection of aircraft is also carried out by New Zealand, Tonga, New Hebrides, Tahiti, Cook Islands, Fiji, Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands. 
The honourable member should know that most aircraft coming to Australia from overseas leave foreign ports at night under lighting conditions attractive to flying insects. which frequently enter the cargo holds and to a lesser extent the cabin. Many of these insects are capable of surviving the relatively short flight time to Australia. 
Ongoing monitoring of aircraft arriving in Australia amply demonstrates the continuing need for the disinsection procedure. The Department has developed a collection of some 7,200 insect specimens from those recovered from aircraft after disinsection. The collection embraces virtually all insect orders capable of winged flight, including beetles, winged termites, various moths, culicoides and various types of mosquito and fruit flies. The collection includes all categories of insects capable of introducing important exotic diseases and pests of humans, animals and plants into Australia including malaria, encephalitis, blue tongue and dengue haemorrhagic fever. 
The honourable member's reference to 'faith healing' is misleading, ill-chosen and provocative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The primary responsibility for the detailed planning and operation of health services rests with the State and Territory health authorities. Nevertheless, the Commonwealth Government acknowledges that it has an important role in relation to overall policies and strategies, national goals and priorities, and evaluations in the health care field. In this connection, the Commonwealth participates in joint discussions on health problems with the States. In this context, the National Health and Medical Research Council has endorsed the policy statements recommended in the document Health Care Policy Relating to Children and their Families' to which the honourable member has referred. The Commonwealth 's general support for the aims and philosophies expounded in the article is further demonstrated by the Government's continued funding, under the Community Health Program, of the national secretariat of the Association for the Welfare of Children in Hospital which prepared the document and has, with the aid of the Commonwealth's financial assistance, vigorously promoted these principles and philosophies. 
As indicated in (2) the National Health and Medical Research Council has endorsed the policy statements recommended in the document. The Capital Territory Health 
Commission announced on 18 October 1978 its adoption of the policies advanced by the Association and the Northern Territory Medical Service has also accepted in principle the Association's statements. I am aware that the New South Wales Health Commission has formally adopted as official policy the Association 's policy statements and while I am unaware of any formal pronouncements by the other States, I can confidently report that there is widespread acceptance of the principles expounded and that they are being implemented wherever practicable. 
Impact of Reductions of Government Expenditure and Personal Tax Collections on Employment  (Question No. 2536) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The figures for claims per contributor for payment of pathology services in 1976-77 sought by the honourable member are not available from my Depanment, the Health Insurance Commission or the private health funds. This is a consequence of the movement of over half of the population from the Medibank coverage to private health insurance subsequent to 30 September 1976. The number of contributors to, or persons covered by Medibank Standard, Medibank Private or the private funds is not known for the various pans of that year; the pathology services for which benefits have been paid by the Commission are not separated; and the statistics from the funds are not available. 
I have been concerned about the need for more detailed information on health costs. I will be tabling in the near future, the results of a study which throws new light on the patterns of health expenditure in recent years. I have also ensured that the new health insurance and benefits arrangements to apply from 1 November 1978 are utilised to improve the availability of relevant statistical information. 
I informed the House in my Ministerial Statement of 24 May 1978 that preliminary information indicated an appreciable decline in the quarterly costs of pathology. The gross benefits payout by Medibank for pathology decreased by 29 per cent from the June quarter 1977 to the March quarter 1978. These figures related to roughly half the population, and did not cover persons covered by the private health funds. 
With the assistance of Medibank and the private health funds, it has been possible to prepare preliminary estimates of benefits expenditure for pathology services for the sixmonthly periods, July to December 1977 and January to June 1 978 for the total population. These are shown below in conjunction with the figures for January to June 1973 and 1976 that were shown on page 4 of the March 1977 Report of the Pathology Services Working Party (tabled on 25 May 1977). 
A significant feature of these figures is that there is an absolute decrease in the benefits cost of pathology services for the period January to June 1978, compared with July to December 1977, though charges were raised for pathology services provided to privately insured persons by the following government laboratories for the first time as from: 
Capital Territory Health Commission- 1 October 1977 
Commonwealth Laboratories- 1 November 1977 
State Health Laboratory Services of Western Australia- I January 1978 
It is quite clear from these figures that the 1 August 1977 pathology benefits changes have not only arrested the previous year by year absolute increase in the benefits cost of pathology services, but they have resulted in a decrease. This proves that the work of the Pathology Services Working Party has been well worthwhile. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) At the same time as direct billing for nonpensioner pathology services was abolished there were other changes made to billing for these services. 
A new schedule of pathology services was introduced and the doctor who requested the pathology tests had to be identified on the claim. 
As a consequence of these other changes no direct comparison of processing costs before and after abolition of direct billing for non-pensioner pathology services is possible. It is estimated that, had the abolition of direct billing been the only change that occurred (i.e. had the schedule of pathology items remained unchanged and the requesting doctor not had to be identified), the number of staff required to handle the increased workload and the resultant estimated additional cost would have been as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Questions related to purchases and usage of agricultural chemicals by specific persons or groups of individuals. These were raised in relation to possible untoward effects which such people might have experienced. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
The findings were that the substances aldrin, chlordane, 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D which were quoted as examples of the 10 allegedly banned or severely restricted products in the U.S.A. are not prohibited for use in that country but are subjected to specified conditions for usage. Assessments and recommendations are made in the United States appropriate to local conditions and requirements. Similarly relevant assessments are made here in Australia to ensure safe usage as related to Australian needs. 
Yes. However, I do not believe anybody could be expected, without prior notice, or access to reference sources, to answer questions involving detailed regulatory provisions concerning all Australian States and in various overseas countries. The fact that the vague and unspecified questions were not answered immediately with finite and minute detail in no way reflects on the capacity and competence of the officer involved. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no optometrists employed in Community Health Centres in the ACT on any basis. 
The detailed administration of general community health projects conducted within States and approved for funding under the Community Health Program, is a matter for the States. The relevant State health authorities have advised that the following numbers of optometrists are employed in approved projects, on the bases shown: 
NSW and Queensland: Nil. 
Victoria: Optometrists operate at four centres on a feeforservice basis. 
SA: Eight visiting optometrists operate at four centres on a fee-for-service basis. 
WA: One optometrist visits one centre two days per month, and charges only for the cost of spectacles. 
Tasmania: One visiting optometrist operates at one centre for two hours per week on a fee-for-service basis. 
Visit to Australia by HRH Princess Alexandra and the Honourable Angus Ogilvy  (Question No. 2410) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) Yes. The table included in the material prepared by the Association of Sheltered Workshops of New South Wales is correct in its broad details. However, the table concerns only the 'free area' of permissible income; if the comparison was with the total income a pensioner can earn before pension entitlement ceases, the picture would be somewhat different. The table below shows that this 'cut off' point is now considerably higher, in relation to the average minimum award wage for adult males, than it was in 1954 or 1967. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Yes. 
The Canadian 'Block Parent Program' has been looked at by the Office of Child Care. However, the Commonwealth in the administration of the Children's Services Program recognises that the basic responsibility for the regulation, licensing and provision of child welfare lies with State governments. The Commonwealth sees its role as complementing activities of State governments and providing a stimulus to innovative thinking by the States and nongovernment organisations. Schemes such as the Block Parent Program are considered to be more appropriate for State or local government or voluntary initiatives than for Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Field Station is primarily used for research activities and in the production of antivenoms and antitoxins. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories is the only source for these nationally important products. 
and (4) Surplus stock and stock no longer suitable for CSL needs are sold. 
Since 1975-76 CSL has made ex-gratia payments in lieu of shire rates levied on three residences which form part of the Field Station. The amounts involved are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) In my reply to question on notice No. 1533  (Hansard,  16 August 1978, page 423) I indicated that in appearing on the program  Four Corners  on 6 May 1978,  Dr E.  J. Fitzsimons was a spokesman for my Department and not for the National Health and Medical Research Council. This answer clarified my reply to a question without notice on 8 May 1978  (Hansard,  page 1959) in which, on the basis of preliminary advice I had referred to a spokesman from Council. 

 Dr E. J. Fitzsimons is the Director of the Toxicology Section in the Commonwealth Department of Health. He is also the  Chairman  of the Poisons Schedule Committee and  Chairman  of the Pesticides and Agricultural Chemicals Subcommittee of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See(l). 
(a) The National Health and Medical Research Council established an ad hoc Working Party to study the use and safety of 2,4,5-T. This Working Party examined over 3,000 documents and reports including data and the results of investigations carried out both in Australia and overseas. 
The assessment of any association between toxic effects and any chemical can only be assessed in the light of knowledge available at the time. Advancement of knowledge constantly brings to light new facts that are assessed continually in relation to potential hazards. 
Investigations by my Department have failed to bring to light the evidence attributed to the United States Environment Protection Agency which, it was alleged, established a statistical relationship between the use of 2,4,5-T and human birth defects. This is in spite of studies of a large number of recent documents available to the Department and the institution of special enquiries. 
Royal Commission into Queensland Electoral Redistribution 1977  (Question No. 1920) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
No. This is a matter for the Victorian authorities who control the registration of agricultural chemicals in that State. 
Yes. 
There has been contact between officers of my Department and officials in Queensland but specific advice has not been requested from my Department. 
The document 1 referred to is a draft World Health Organisation document being circulated among W.H.O. members only for comments and amendments. However, when it is finalised I expect that it will be freely available. 
No. Although the results of research conducted by CSIRO in biological and physical sciences can be of great value in relation to human medicine, research directed specifically to human medicine is not seen as an objective or responsibility of CSIRO. 
I think the honourable member is probably referring particularly to a very serious problem of middle ear infection amongst Aboriginal children. Quite frankly, I have been considering the possibility of dealing with the middle ear infection amongst Aboriginal children in the way that we dealt with the trachoma problem afflicting Aboriginal people in the remote areas of Australia. However, before coming to any decision on the matter, I think we should await the outcome of the results of a research program which is being undertaken by  Dr Jose  of the Cancer Institute in Melbourne,  Dr Reid  of the Department of Health and also  Dr Rao,  who is an ear, nose and throat specialist from Darwin. The research team has been granted $32,000 from the National Health and Medical Research Council to carry out the first year's work next year. 
The research project will focus on the high prevalence of middle ear infection amongst the Aboriginal children, particularly in the Northern Territory. I was at Bathurst Island earlier in the year and I was surprised to learn that practically all the children on that Island and Melville Island were in fact afflicted by middle ear infection by the time that they were 15 months of age. Further inquiries have revealed that this is a very common problem amongst Aboriginal children. Because we have had great success with the national trachoma program, something like $2m having been spent on it and over 100,000 people in the remote areas of Australia having been screened, it has set a very important model for dealing with serious medical conditions amongst Aboriginal communities. However, as I said earlier, we will await the outcome of the research program before taking any further steps in respect of task forces or whatever. 
In answer to the last part of the question, I would say at the outset that it is not my intention, or the intention of this Government, to become embroiled in the dispute between the State governments and visiting medical officers. The State Government has a very clear responsibility to negotiate terms of contract with those medical officers whom it needs to engage to provide a service within its hospital system. I am informed that the New South Wales Government's offer of a flat 75 per cent of the schedule fee for medical services in country hospitals is unacceptable to the New South 
Wales branch of the Australian Medical Association. I have also been advised that the Minister for Health in New South Wales is bucketing me and the Commonwealth Government on the issue and I am told that the following statement was broadcast over radio 2LF, Young. 
-There is Big Brother over there trying to defend him. Listen to this: 
The Commonwealth Government will only cost-share through the hospital cost-sharing agreement 75 per cent as the modified fee for service . . . If I approve of higher than 75 per cent as the modified fee for service then New South Wales will have to pay the extra amount outside the hospital cost-sharing agreement because  Mr Hunt  will only recognise 75 per cent as the modified fee for service, so, in fact,  Mr Hunt  is compelling us to set it at 7 5 per cent . . . 
That is utter rubbish. The Minister in New South Wales is running around the country like a chook with its head cut off. He has taken on the doctors in the country areas of New South Wales. He is doing no good and he is blaming me for it- he is blaming the Feds for it. He knows that he has complete power at his disposal to negotiate a satisfactory agreement. All I can say to him is that he should get on with the job, stop looking over his shoulder at me and make sure that he has the doctors to serve the needs of the people in country areas. 
I thank the honourable member for the question because from the speech I heard him make last night in the adjournment debate I think he is quite obviously aware of the serious problem that is now confronting Australia and will confront this country in the next five or six years as a result of a surplus of doctors. The laws of supply and demand do not operate in the medical area. The more doctors we have the more services we have, the higher costs we have and the sicker we become. Quite clearly, if we want to keep health costs within any bounds we will need to ensure that we overcome this very serious impending surplus of doctors in this country. 
I am well aware of the difference between the States in respect of the number of years required to be undertaken in medical school. We have a very significant problem in New South Wales in that we have in the one year a double graduation and this, of course, will cause an immediate problem in that State. Because of the concern about this matter I have set up a task force under  Dr Sidney  Sax which will include representatives from the Tertiary Education Commission, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, the Department of Education and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The reason we have had to involve a number of departments is that there are a number of areas of responsibility. As Minister for Health, I do not have a responsibility at all, other than to try to make an assessment of the manpower requirements that are necessary to meet the health needs of this country. But the universities, of course, will have to watch the levels of enrolment in the medical schools. Therefore, there is a State government involvement in the issue. 
The matter has been the subject of discussion at the last two Health Ministers' conferences. I do think there are encouraging signs that people are now starting to recognise that a surplus of doctors in this country will not reduce health costs; in fact, it will increase them. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As Honourable members are aware, there are three principal elements concerning the payment of medical benefits under the new health insurance arrangements which commenced operation on 1 November 1978. Persons may register for Commonwealth benefit purposes only or insure with a registered medical benefits organisation for basic medical benefits which, with the Commonwealth medical benefits, will cover 75 per cent of schedule fees with a maximum gap of $10 for each service. A further alternative is for people to insure under other medical benefits tables, including optional medical benefits tables offered by organisations. As I indicated in my second reading speech when introducing the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, these tables, which must conform with guidelines determined by the Minister for Health, enable registered organisations to offer a variety of medical benefits packages, including deductibles. 
The Goverment is very disappointed and surprised at the recent action of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia in manipulating the optional medical benefits table concept to restrict the payment of medical benefits for certain of its contributors, particularly chronically ill persons. 
I reiterate my abhorrence at this action and confirm the views expressed in this House and outside parliament in deploring the HCF action. The Government is committed to taking positive actions to safeguard the medical and hospital benefits entitlements of contributors who have been, or may be, affected by any similar action taken, or proposed to be taken, by HCF or any other registered medical benefits organisation. 
Before outlining in detail the provisions of the Bill before the House, I would like to inform honourable members that the Goverment 's new health insurance arrangements are working exceptionally smoothly, except for a small, but most important, group of contributors, who are subject to the medical benefits exclusions rules of registered organisations. While providing flexibility within the arrangements for organisations to determine benefit packages, it was not contemplated that organisations would use this new flexibility in a way which would enable them to abrogate their responsibility to pay medical benefits for those long-standing contributors in most need of medical benefits coverage. 
Section  73BE  of the National Health Act provides for the Minister for Health to give directions to registered medical benefit organisations, including directions with respect to the scope and level of benefits available to contributors. The Bill, in clause 4, expands section  73BE  to enable directions to be given by the Minister to ensure that all or any of the objectives specified in new sub-section  73BE  (2) be achieved. The objectives specified in the Bill are as follows: The first objective is to prevent discrimination in the payment of medical benefits for medical services rendered on or after 1 November 1978 which is, in the opinion of the Minister for Health, improper discrimination. This term is defined in clause 3 of the Bill and, briefly, is discrimination relating to the following matters: Chronic illness; age of the patient; limitation on the level of medical benefits payable under organisations' rules because of the frequency of the rendering of professional services or the aggregate of amounts of benefits payable; or any other ground prescribed by regulations. Medical benefit exclusion rules vary considerably among organisations. However, rules concerning the grounds I have just mentioned, with the exception of age of the patient, are considered to be those most frequently applied. 
The second objective is to prevent registered medical benefits organisations from changing, after 1 November 1978, the way in which they administered rules for contributors before that date. This applies to rules which reduce or cancel medical benefits for medical services rendered on or after  1  November  1978. 1  am sure honourable members will accept that, as a principle, persons affected by new or restructured tables under the new health insurance arrangements should be able to maintain their full medical benefits entitlements which existed prior to  1  November  1978.  A direction, pertaining to this objective, ensures the maintenance of that cover. 
The third objective which may be achieved by ministerial direction is to ensure that persons, insured with a registered medical benefits organisation, do not, through the application of benefit reduction rules, have the level of insured benefits reduced below the basic medical benefits level. The fourth objective is directed to a situation which has arisen where some registered hospital benefit organisations are refusing to pay hospital benefits for persons whose hospitalisation is considered by those organisations to be unnecessary. Such grounds are principally on the basis that, in the opinion of the organisation, because of their age or condition these persons should be more appropriately accommodated in, say, a nursing home. The power of the Minister to direct, as specified in clause  4,  new paragraph  73BE (2)  (d) of the Bill, will enable him to ensure that contributors to hospital benefits funds who are admitted to hospital are not denied hospital benefits at the basic level. It will be noted that the date of application in relation to this objective is  1  May  1978.  Honourable members will recall that in a Press statement made on this issue on 30 April  1978  by the Minister of Health in New South Wales and me, I stated that when I had evidence on these nonpayments of benefits, action would be taken to safeguard patients. The Hospitals Contribution Fund, which was the particular organisation involved, then announced it would review its decision. On  1  May  1978  I issued a further press statement stating I would await certain outcomes before considering further measures. Since that period there have been a number of representations on the issue. Therefore  1  May  1978  is the appropriate date for the implementation of this objective. 
The Bill also ensures that the position of persons affected by any action taken by a registered organisation, before a direction takes effect, in relation to an objective specified in the Bill, can be safeguarded. Provision is made to enable the Minister to require the organisation to reconsider all claims for medical benefits made before the direction takes effect and deal with those claims as if the direction had been in force at the time the claim had originally been considered. The Bill further provides for the Minister to place a copy of any direction under new sub-section  73be(3)  before each House of Parliament. The direction does not take effect until the period of 15 sitting days specified for disallowance has passed. 
I am aware that some organisations' rules provide for cancellation of membership of contributors. To safeguard continued membership for those persons who, for example, are chronically ill persons, clause 5 of the Bill provides a new section  73BFB,  which entitles a person who believes cancellation of his membership to the medical benefits fund constitutes an 'improper discrimination' against him to request the Minister to direct the organisation concerned to reinstate the person. Where the Minister is of the opinion that improper discrimination has occurred the Minister can direct the organisation concerned to reinstate the person without loss of entitlement. 
Section  73E  of the National Health Act provides for the Minister for Health to determine guidelines relating to optional medical and hospital benefit tables. Benefit tables satisfying the guidelines, and criteria specified in the National Health Act, are declared, by the Minister, to the optional tables. There is some doubt that the existing provision enables the Minister to vary the guidelines after a declaration has been made. The amendment, in clause 6, enables the guidelines to be varied and, further, enables the Minister to revoke a declaration following a variation to the guidelines. Again the Minister's revocation of such a declaration is to be placed before each House of Parliament and does not take effect until the period of disallowance of  1  5 sitting days has passed. 
The Bill, in clause  8,  amends section  78  of the National Health Act. The amendment is twofold. Firstly, it removes any doubt that the power of the Minister to consider changes made by organisations in relation to the matters specified in subsection  78  ( 1), also includes power to consider a change which makes provision for a new table of benefits to be offered by the organisation. Secondly, the amendment prevents the Minister from approving a change to organisations' rules which provides for a new table of benefits, or alters or affects contributors or benefits, if in the opinion of the Minister the change brings about an 'improper discrimination'. Decisions by the Minister under section  78  are subject to review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
The final amendment in the Bill is in clause 9, under new section 73BFB, where provision is made for the Minister to make a direction to a registered organisation to reinstate a contributor whose membership has been cancelled on grounds of improper discrimination. This direction will also be subject to review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
I hope that, in the administration of their medical and hospital benefits funds, registered organisations will act responsibly and with concern for contributors. The Bill before the House confers on the Minister for Health powers of direction to safeguard membership and benefit entitlements of contributors. While the matters subject to direction are specified in the Bill as a clear indication of the Government's intention to preserve contributors' rights, I am hopeful that organisations will administer their rules in a manner which will result in the activation of the ministerial powers of direction being required only in exceptional circumstances. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
in reply- Firstly, I would like to respond to the remarks of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  in respect of his concern about the disposal of the land that will become surplus to the needs of the Department of Health once the Woodman Point quarantine station is closed down. It is an obsolete station in terms of modern medicine and modern methods of treating exotic disease or fevers of any type. The Government is in the process of developing a high security infectious unit at the Fairfield Hospital in Melbourne. It is negotiating the purchase of very sophisticated equipment to enable infectious cases to be transported to that hospital in certain circumstances and in other circumstances to some of the special wards that are available in the capital cities. The discussions with the States are almost complete. As soon as they are we will be in a position to close down many of the quarantine stations that were established when smallpox was the great fear, the great disease, the scourge of mankind. Because of the tremendous work that the World Health Organisation has undertaken- I think this is one of its great achievements- smallpox has been practically wiped off the globe. Once the virus has been disposed of there is no reason to suggest that it will again scourge the human race. The other day  Sir Gustav  Nossal suggested that even the viruses being stored at the various laboratories should be destroyed so that there will not be a recurrence of the problem that occurred in the United Kingdom recently. So we are reaching the stage at which the Woodman Point station and many of the other quarantine stations will be able to be disposed of. I will certainly take on board the points raised by the honourable member and convey his message to my colleague the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney),  who has a responsibility for negotiating with the Western Australian Government the disposal of that very important and attractive property. I think that the honourable member's point is well taken. 
In respect of the Bicton animal quarantine station, an alternate site has been chosen. The site is adjacent to the Perth Airport. The conditions of transfer are in the process of negotiation with the Western Australian Government. It is anxious to have the Commonwealth close down the Bicton animal quarantine station. We are necessarily involved in fairly substantial transfer costs. We are in the process of seeking to obtain some concessions from the Western Australian Government in respect of the removal costs associated with the transfer. I cannot give the honourable member for Fremantle an answer in respect of the question he raised about the amount of money being spent on major restructuring works at Bicton. I understand that funds were appropriated for some necessary repairs to the existing facility, which at present is substantially overloaded. As soon as the information is available to me, which could be later this afternoon, I will convey it to the honourable member for Fremantle. 
I thank the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  very much for his contribution to the debate. Virtually from the day that I was commissioned as Minister for Health the honourable member has been constantly on my doorstep. He has maintained a continuing interest in the area of quarantine. Unfortunately, not enough people in the Parliament or the community generally are aware of the tremendous significance of the quarantine precautions which are taken to the total social and economic structure of this country. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the honourable member for Canning have quite rightly said that, for instance, an outbreak of foot and mouth disease in this country would probably result in a loss to the economy of $ 1,000m in a full year. Our economy could never stand such an enormous loss. Those of us who are involved in matters of quarantine and who understand the importance of quarantine measures are living in constant fear of foot and mouth disease entering this country. If it does it will spell disaster for the economy of this nation. I think the Parliament should be comforted by the fact that there are people in the Parliament like the honourable member for Canning, the honourable member for Maranoa and others, although there are not too many of them, who are concerned about quarantine matters. 
One of the issues which the honourable member for Canning raised with me early in the piece was what he regarded as being a lack of proper facilities in Western Australia. He pointed out that in recent years there had been an enormous increase in the volume of shipping traffic into the north-western ports and also in the volume of traffic at Perth Airport. In response to a request the Director-General of the Department of Health and I went to Western Australia in 1976. We spent several days there. It was quite apparent that the incinerator there was quite inadequate to meet modern requirements. So high priority was accorded to the re-siting of that facility and the re-building of it. It is now almost complete. I am certain that the honourable member for Canning will be there for its opening because of his keen interest in the matter. 
The Director-General and I also went to the north-western coastal areas and quite clearly there was a lack of facilities there. Port Hedland did not have adequate incinerator facilities. The staffing facilities were spread fairly thinly from Perth to the far north-western coast. At that time it was stressed that there was great need for a regular surveillance of shipping and other activities along the whole of the northern coast of Australia. So, largely as a result of the pressures that have been brought to bear upon the Government and because of my own concern about the need to keep this country free of exotic diseases as well as a recognition of the problem by the Government, the Government has moved at a time of economic stringency to spend substantial sums of money on improving general quarantine surveillance within and outside Australia. 
The honourable member for Canning referred to some of the things that have been done. It is quite an impressive record. For instance, the Government has commenced the construction of the new off-shore quarantine station on Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Heavens above, it should have been there many years ago. At least a start has been made. This country has been denied enormous opportunities as a result of not being able to import into it some very important genetic strains. For instance, if we could get into Australia the fat tail sheep we would be able to supply to the great satisfaction of Middle Eastern countries the type of meat that they require but because we have to get them from countries in which foot and mouth disease and bluetongue are endemic we are unable to bring that genetic strain to this country. The time will come, of course, when the facilities on Cocos (Keeling) Islands will enable us progressively to introduce some of the important genetic strains to produce livestock which are adaptable to Australia's climatic conditions. Climatology, of course, has now been accepted as quite an important aspect of animal breeding and animal husbandry. Clearly in the northern part of Australia we should be producing tick free cattle. There are many strains that have a resistance to ticks. Many of our cattle in the northern part of Australia do not have resistance to this problem and enormous costs are incurred in trying to keep the tick population down by chemical means. 
We have gone ahead, of course, with restructuring the Torrens Island facility, and that will provide a very important back-up facility for Cocos. The new Wallgrove facility in New South Wales which will cost about $4.6m will also be of tremendous value to the State of New South Wales. I have no doubt that the coastal surveillance program that has now been put into operation will give us a greater protection than we have ever had. Of course, with the increasing volume of all sorts of vessels coming into our northern waters- ships, small vessels, refugee vessels and so on- it is absolutely vital that this surveillance be rigidly enforced. 
The legislation before us is largely designed to enforce the law. We have very strict quarantine laws but the penalties have not been severe enough. I suppose the penalties could be regarded as Draconian when compared with the penalties applying to other legislation. They were the most severe penalties to which I could get the Government to agree. I would not have worried one iota if they had been twice as severe, because I believe we have a responsibility to keep this country clean. 
I have asked my Department to prepare another brochure to explain to travellers entering Australia either by air or by sea why Australia is adopting some of the rather rigid laws in respect to quarantine and why particular procedures are being adopted. I think it is very important to explain to people why one is taking harsh measures. I have heard so many people say that they cannot understand why those characters walk down the corridors of aircraft with what appears to be fly sprays. They want to know whether the spray is being used to kill insects or flies or whether it is supposed to kill all the wogs that the passengers have breathed into the enclosed spaces on the aircraft. Quite frankly, they do not have a damn clue why they are being sprayed. They think this is one of the things that Australians do. They think it is probably some sort of weird Down Under attitude. I think we have a responsibility to explain to people coming into Australia for the first time why these things are done. 
The honourable member for Canning also referred to the new procedures that have been adopted in respect of spraying the holds of Qantas Airways Ltd aircraft with mechanical devices. I very reluctantly agreed to this procedure in the first instance. It has been tried on a short term basis, and we are currently evaluating and monitoring the results. I have not had any adverse response to the tests that have been carried out. But if the honourable member has any information I would be very pleased to have it, because we do not want in any way to weaken the value of that procedure. 
I would like also to refer to a point the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  made about the need to promote a better understanding within and outside this country as to why we have strict quarantine laws. I think that such an explanation is vital. I think that at some stage the Government will have to prepare a documentary or enter into some sort of public relations exercise or public exhibition to make Australians conscious of the need for quarantine procedures. Each year well over one million people travel overseas and come back to this country. As the report of the Director-General indicates, something like seven tonnes of plant, food and other materials was confiscated at our airports in all sorts of articles. I do not wish to delay the House. 
I just want to mention briefly a matter raised by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon).  The honourable member for Reid has had a great rest; he need not worry. I am sorry that his sleep has been disturbed. But the honourable member for McMillan - 
My point of order is that the Minister is replying to the second reading stage of the debate; he is not making a second reading speech. The Minister knows that many honourable members want to get away. He has clearly set out in his second reading speech what the Bill is all about. He is only indulging in repetition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  There is no substance to the point of order. The honourable member for Reid may have defeated the very purpose of his point of order. 
Briefly the honourable member for McMillan spoke about the horticultural interests in Victoria. I know they are very concerned about the possibility of insect infestation and exotic insects coming into Australia in cut flowers. We have set up a consultative committee which comprises representatives of the horticultural interests of Victoria and elsewhere to confer with my Department on any matters that concern them specifically. That committee is working extremely well. I know that  Mr Begg,  to whom the honourable member referred, is still most concerned. So are we. The horticultural interests can rest assured that we will watch the situation very closely. We will be using that consultative committee to the maximum to protect the interests of the horticultural producers of this country. In conclusion, I thank those honourable members who participated in the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures are not available specifically for the period 1977-78. However a recent study conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission indicated that for the period September 1976 to March 1978 under a scheme of financial assistance offered by the Commission for travel interstate for treatment, eighty-four people were approved for assistance to travel for radiotherapy. 
Of the eighty-four approvals under this scheme, sixtyone people applied for reimbursement during the same period and the cost of assistance to these people was $19,000. 
Information available to the Commission indicates that about one third of A.C.T. cancer sufferers receive radiotherapy as part of their treatment. It is considered that in general SO per cent of all persons suffering from cancer can benefit from radiotherapy and this figure is approached in the other capital cities. It is not known how many patients who do not seek radiotherapy treatment interstate, do not do so because of the social disruption involved. 
Approximately $1,650,000 on current costs. 
A Steering Committee on Oncology Services in the Australian Capital Territory was set up to advise the Commission on the planning and provision of oncology services (including radiotherapy) in the A.C.T. The Steering Committee has now concluded its deliberations and its report was received by the Commission on 27 September 1978. It is now being distributed to appropriate committees and individuals for comment. 
The Steering Committee recommended that a radiotherapy unit should be established at Woden Valley Hospital, with an expected operational date of early 1983. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
Pamphlets have been produced in major migrant/ refugee languages describing the various services provided by the Department of Social Security and these have been distributed widely through the migrant information network as well as other existing outlets commonly used by migrants and refugees. Use has also been made of the ethnic radio, cassette recordings, displays at major shows and exhibitions and some 16 mm sound films have also been produced. The Department makes extensive use of the Telephone Interpreter Service where bi-lingual staff are not available. Dual telephone handsets have been installed in all State Offices where Telephone Interpreter Service facilities are available and in Regional Offices located in areas of high migrant density in these States. Departmental Social Workers, Welfare Officers and field staff also explain the services available from the Department and how to use these in their contacts with migrants, refugees, ethnic groups and welfare workers employed by other Government Departments and voluntary organisations engaged in migrant/refugee welfare activities. The Ethnic Liaison Officer of the Department is currently looking into the feasibility of introducing additional ways and means to further improve the information dissemination activities of the Department, in order to enhance migrant/refugee awareness of and access to Departmental services and programs throughout Australia. 
As at 30 September 1978 the Department employed 23 bi-lingual and 9 multi-lingual staff as full-time counter officers. It is important to point out, however, that in many Departmental offices there are also bi-lingual and multilingual staff, employed on other duties away from the counter, who are available to undertake interpreting and whose services are in fact frequently utilised when required. The Public Service Board recently approved the introduction of a 'linguistic availability /performance' allowance, to be payable at the rate of $250 a year to selected staff who are required by management to undertake interpreting and translating duties but are not classified in the Interpretor/ Translator structure. This new allowance should further assist in improving communication with non-English speaking clients by encouraging bi-lingual and multi-lingual staff employed in all areas of the Department to make their language skills available when needed. 
The establishment of a Migrant Services Section in Central Office is now under consideration of the Public Service Board and another proposal is currently being developed for the establishment of Migrant Services Units in all State Headquarters of the Department. It is envisaged that these Units will have welfare staff who possess multi-lingual skills, and they will work in close liaison with regional and district offices of the Department especially those located in areas of high migrant concentration. In addition the Department actively endeavours to place staff with relevant language skills in offices which service significantly large ethnic groups and, in conjunction with the Public Service Board is currently taking steps to obtain Greek speaking public contact officers for its Marrickville Office in Sydney and its Richmond Office in Melbourne. It is intended to extend a similar service to other significant ethnic groups and or areas as soon as practical. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The income test on unemployment benefit will be subject to review as part of the Government's overall Budget examination of social welfare programs and policies. 
In considering variations to the existing income test on unemployment benefits regard must be had to the possible effects of such variations on incentives to seek full time work and equity between unemployment beneficiaries and employed members of the workforce. 
To apply a more liberal pensions income test to unemployment benefits would very substantially increase the amount of income a person may have before being disqualified from all benefit. For example, if the pensions income test were to be adopted, a single unemployed person over the age of 18 could have weekly income of up to $122.90 before entitlement to benefit ceased; a married person could have weekly income of up to $211.90. These limits would be higher in the case of families with children. 
As a result unemployment beneficiaries with resources of their own, or who are able to find part time or casual work, could receive a higher income than a person in full time employment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since July 1978 a number of representations have been made to me on behalf of members of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia, in support of the Guild's proposal for a subsidised Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme for the disadvantaged, including low income families. 
The scheme proposed by the Pharmacy Guild is essentially the same as the Subsidised Health Benefits (SHB) Plan which was discontinued in 1976 as part of the Government's cost-containment measures. At that time, the cost of continuing with the SHB Plan was estimated at $2m. The administrative costs of identifying beneficiaries ($1.3m) far exceeded the $0.7m in pharmaceutical benefit concessions to patients. To adopt the scheme proposed by the Pharmacy Guild now would create additional administrative costs which would be unacceptable both in terms of continued economic restraint and the small overall increase in patient benefit that would arise under current Health Scheme arrangements. 
Because of my concern to assist disadvantaged people I have asked my Department to re-examine the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. However, the Guild's concern is appreciated and further consideration will be given to the Pharmacy Guild proposal and other proposals. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
No. 
The herbicide 2,4,5-T is manufactured in Australia by Chemical Industries, Kwinana which imports the chemical trichlorophenol from which it is manufactured. Nufarm Chemicals Pty Ltd, Victoria, imports the chemical 2,4,5-T as acid and formulates amines or esters for marketing. 
No. There has been no demonstrated need in view of the recommendations of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
Not by this Department. This question would most appropriately be answered by my colleague the Minister for Science. 
The herbicide has not been banned in the United States of America although restrictions have been placed on its use. The chemical is the subject of a Rebuttable Presumption Against Registration (RPAR) instituted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. 
Department of Construction: Liaison with States  (Question No.  2108) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has provided the following information: 
Following publicity given last year to claims that large numbers of Papua-New Guineans were entering and residing illegally in the Torres Strait area and northern Queensland an immigration task force visited the area on a number of occasions and found the claims to be greatly exaggerated. 
Nevertheless the information obtained by the task force has formed the basis for recommendations to interested Ministers on measures to overcome illegal immigration in the area, keeping in mind however the traditional rights and movements of Papua-New Guineans in the Torres Strait. I am not aware of the numbers of Papua-New Guineans involved in traditional visits to the Torres Strait Islands nor of the numbers of Torres Strait Islanders who make traditional visits to Papua-New Guinea. 
The Medical Superintendent, Thursday Island Hospital is a Quarantine officer and clears arrivals from overseas by sea and air (including Papua-New Guinea) for quarantine purposes.  His  work includes inspection (and medical examination, if necessary) of persons on board. He also, in co-operation with State Health personnel, forms one of a team which makes patrols at periodic intervals to islands in the Torres Strait. The team interviews head men on the island, proffers advice in regard to visitors from Papua-New Guinea, and at intervals carries out a chest x-ray survey of the inhabitants of the islands. 
Persons from Papua-New Guinea who are identified as arriving in the islands for the purpose of working at an occupation or who intend to stay on Thursday Island for a period are given malaria prophylaxis, or curative medication if found necessary as a result of a blood smear. Passive case detection is also carried out by oversighting reports of cases of fever noted in the islands by head men or State officials. Necessary follow up measures are instituted as a result of these reports. 
Habitations on the outer 14 islands are sprayed with a residual insecticide annually to eradicate mosquito vectors. If an active case of malaria is encountered the whole of the island on which the case occurred is given insecticidal treatment and pockets of water (where mosquito larvae can hatch) are drained. 
Cases of leprosy diagnosed on the islands are removed to Thursday Island Hospital for treatment. Household and close contacts are given periodic examination at from six to twelve monthly intervals for at least five years after last contact with an infective case. 
Persons suffering from venereal disease are also removed to hospital on Thursday Island and given treatment until non-infectious. 
By arrangement, school teachers on the islands provide information to the Animal Quarantine officer, Thursday Island on matters of quarantine interest including movements of animals and animal products and any unusual animal behaviour, illnesses or deaths. Interviews with the island people and examinations of animals are conducted during periodic visits to individual islands in the Torres Strait by the Animal Quarantine officer from Thursday Island and Animal Quarantine personnel from Queensland. 
The Department chartered the vessel  M.V. Lumen  to undertake quarantine surveys in the Torres Strait/Cape York Peninsula area during October 1978. It is anticipated that additional use of this vessel for quarantine survey purposes will be undertaken during 1978-79. The vessel owned by the State Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement is also used occasionally for quarantine surveillance. 
As announced by the Minister for Transport in July 1978 aerial surveillance of the northern coastline (including certain islands in the Torres Strait) will be carried out daily as part of an upgraded coastal surveillance program with the prime object of detecting activities of quarantine significance. Pending full implementation of this program, ad hoc flights over the larger islands in the Strait close to Australia have been carried out by Quarantine personnel since August 1978 approximately two to three times each week. 
A regular monitoring program for exotic plant insect pests (and particularly the melon fly which is established throughout Papua-New Guinea) has been undertaken since 197S on islands through Torres Strait and on Cape York Peninsula. 
In all surface surveillance activities, Quarantine officers place considerable emphasis on education of the local inhabitants as a factor in disease control and quarantine security. 
The Torres Strait is a remote, complex island system with unique quarantine problems, through which inhabitants of both Australia and Papua-New Guinea have moved traditionally for hundreds of years. Quarantine staff numbers in this area are comparable with other remote ports. However it would be difficult to directly compare staffing and quarantine controls exercised in the Torres Strait with those in mainland Australia where entry is channelled through declared first ports of entry. 
Discussions with a view to establishing a joint program to combat malaria were held in May 1977 between the Commonwealth Department of Health and Health Authorities of the World Health Organisation and Papua-New Guinea. Agreement was reached on the need for co-operative research in malaria to be carried out in the Torres Strait Islands and adjacent areas of Papua-New Guinea. A proposal for the establishment of a research and control station on the island is being examined. The Papua-New Guinea Government is stepping up its malaria control program in its provinces closest to the Torres Strait Islands. 
Local arrangements provide for the Medical Superintendent, Thursday Island Hospital and State health personnel to locate, diagnose and arrange treatment of diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, venereal and other infectious diseases in local inhabitants and in Papua-New Guineans entering the Torres Strait Islands. State health personnel also follow-up and assess contacts of persons found to be suffering from tuberculosis, venereal disease and leprosy. No known arrangements exist for similar controls of Torres Strait Islanders entering Papua-New Guinea. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) The Department of Social Security owns 40 computers. 
The Depanment operates 41 computers (seven of the Department's computers are in store, either awaiting installation or for back-up purposes and the Depanment operates eight computers owned by the Depanment of Health); 
No computers are being purchased; and 
No computers are being rented. 
The cost of the computers owned by the Depanment is shown in the following table: 
The computers are used to maintain Social Security records and make payments. 
The data stored in the computers is personal data of clients pertaining to their entitlement of Social Security pensions and benefits. 
5 ) The MOHAWK computers are interconnected to computers which are owned by the Depanment of Health but operated by my Depanment for the purpose of transmitting data over a telephone network. 
Access to the computers is restricted to authorised personnel within the Depanment for official purposes. The confidentiality provisions of the Social Services Act are observed. 
It is not possible to quantify the savings in staff numbers that have been achieved since the Department's first computer was introduced in 1967 because there has not only been a significant increase in the number of persons receiving pensions, benefits and allowances and in the amount of statistical information available, but also there have been many changes in related systems in respect of eligibility, periodicity of payments and method of payments, et cetera. In addition the Department's computers are supporting an extended decentralised office network, performing work appertaining to new functions, work for other Commonwealth Departments and work previously done in State government departments (such as the preparation of transport fare certificates). It is certain that the tremendous increase in overall workloads and changes in systems could not have been handled effectively by manual means. The Department's staff has increased more than threefold since the introduction of computers. From June 1967 to June 1 978 the number of social security pensions and beneficiaries has increased from 892,000 to 2,096,000. Over the same period the number of children and students receiving family allowances has increased from 3,835,000 to 4,305,000. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee on Applications and Costs of Modern Technology in Medical Practice. 
For the information of honourable members 1 present the report of the Pathology Services Working Party- Review of 1977 Changes. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) It is estimated that at 30 June 1 978 there were 
10,770 persons receiving age pension. 
b) 1 ,020 persons receiving widow 's pension, and 
420 persons receiving supporting parent's benefit, in the Electoral Division of Bowman. 
Information as to the amount of expenditure on pensions and benefits in the Electoral Division of Bowman is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The levels of nursing home benefits presently paid by the Government in respect of uninsured ordinary care nursing home patients are: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Approximately 800 facilities are regarded as being of a child care nature. There is some uncertainty about the precise number because up to date information on projects funded via the States is not available. 
The figure includes facilities which are soon to become operational as well as operational ones and also includes full day care services, services for handicapped children, other special need groups and families at risk, but excludes preschools and the large number of holiday projects. 
The Department of Social Security makes a contribution towards the cost of these facilities but does not have full financial responsibility for them. 
$25. 136m was spent in 1977-78 and an estimated $32.3m will be spent in 1978-79. 
and (4) There are no accurate figures to indicate the number of children catered for by these facilities or the number falling into the categories requested. However, a statistical collection is to be introduced in early 1979 and information of the kind requested by the honourable member will then be more readily available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed of the report in the Medical Journal of Australia of 1 2 June 1 976 concerning treatment of skin cancer with Euphorbia Peplus. 
The authors, Drs Weedon and Chick, recorded the apparently successful treatment of basal cell carcinoma by a patient using the milky sap of the plant. However it was stated that the communication should in no way be taken as a recommendation of the form of therapy. 
Other than the research (clinical) provided by this one case- no research is known to be proceeding and certainly no Government funded research. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The primary responsibility for the provision of public hospital services rests with the States. The matter raised by the honourable member is essentially one for consideration by the Tasmanian Government. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) There is a reciprocal agreement on social security between Australia and New Zealand. In broad terms this enables people who move permanently from one country to the other to receive the social security pensions and benefits of the country in which they are living and allows people temporarily in one country to receive the social security benefits of the country in which they are ordinarily resident. In addition, under general portability arrangements, Australian pensions are payable to eligible pensioners in New Zealand. 
At 30 June 1978 there were 247 Australian age, invalid, wives and widows pensions being paid under the reciprocal agreement with New Zealand to former residents of New Zealand living permanently in Australia. The numbers residing in each State were as follows: 
The Government cannot accept the amendment because of the urgency of this legislation. We have a very serious problem. A health insurance fund has sought to use a rule to the disadvantage of health insurance contributors to a table. Many of the contributors have contributed to the maximum tables of that fund for up to 25 years. So let us get on with the job. Let us get this legislation through so that a determination can be made to protect the contributors. I assure the Opposition that we have sought the best legal advice possible. A tremendous amount of time has been given to this legislation. I do not think that legislation which has wider powers has been introduced into this Parliament in the time that I have been responsible for the health insurance area. The BUI contains provisions which protect the community from the excessive powers that are vested in the Minister, in that his directions must be laid on the table of this Parliament. The powers contained in this legislation are very embracing indeed. I have no doubt that the legislation will close the loopholes that were present in the Act prior to this evening. 
in reply- I would like to say how delighted I am that all members of the Parliament including those opposite, have supported the general thrust of this legislation, in spite of some of the more political comments that have been made and that one would expect to be made in the course of such a debate. I take the House back briefly to what caused the problem. It was the issue of the Whitlock family, which had been insured with the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia at tables higher than the basic table. After 1 November the table at which  Mr Whitlock  was a contributor was abolished and a higher table was created. Then, because of a recent history of chronic illness, the fund chose to write and tell the family that as from 1 November it would be entitled to a maximum number of benefits. This family had been contributors to that fund for a period of 10 years. So nobody in his wildest dreams could have believed that any health insurance fund would have taken the liberty that the HCF took in respect of the flexibility that was being offered to him. 
The purpose of this National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3) is to ensure that no fund will be able to take such a mean advantage of contributors to health insurance funds in this country again. Health insurance funds have had opportunities to do what HCF did before. In fact, they have had chronic illness rules in their medical tables, and certainly they have had them in their hospital tables, for many years. We have never seen such a mean advantage being taken of a rule that the fund intended to apply. Sure, the fund intended to apply the rule in a very frank and honest way. It wrote to all its contributors. 
Time is getting on,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I know that the House wants to proceed to other business. I would like to answer one point raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I refer to his point relating to improper discrimination as it might apply to benefits for procedures, such as cosmetic surgery. The Bill does not prevent this. The purpose and the objective specified in the Bill are to ensure that benefits will continue to be available to persons who suffer from chronic illness or other medical conditions when cover is needed most. Any discrimination must, in the opinion of the Minister, be improper discrimination. This Bill is not directed to maintaining benefits cover for services such as cosmetic surgery where funds tables exclude benefits for these services. I would not envisage the power of direction being used to that end. I point out, however, that to the extent of any action taken under the Bill, optional tables will be controlled. I conclude by once again thanking all honourable members who have participated in this debate. I thank the House for its support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The Department has no record of any representation on this matter. A number of pensions were terminated after patients were transferred to areas of the Baillie Henderson Hospital which had not been approved for pension purposes. Steps have now been taken to approve these areas for pension purposes and where appropriate, restore payment of pensions with full arrears. 
) There are no savings. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Social Security Act 1947 1 present the annual report of the DirectorGeneral of Social Security for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
to (5) As the Prime Minister indicated in his reply to your question No. 1561  (Hansard,  12 September 1978, page 901) Ministers are responsible to the Parliament for the answers they give to questions on notice. 
Consistent with that responsibility I endeavour to give honourable members accurate information in a form which is succinct and avoids repetition. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The approved Leasing Program for 1978-79 for the Department of Social Security includes provision for additional accommodation to relieve the situation in the Whyalla Regional Office. Every endeavour is being made to obtain suitable accommodation to satisfy this need. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
No. 
See answer to No. 1. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
by leave- This statement relates to the June 1978 report of the Senate. Standing Committee on Science and the Environment relating to herbicides, pesticides and human health. Honourable members are aware of the deep community interest in the toxic effects on humans which have been attributed to various agricultural chemicals and in particular their alleged connection with birth defects. Two such chemicals have been singled out by the media in this regard- 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D. These, to a large extent, formed the basis of the Senate Committee's report. It is vital to any consideration of this matter that it be accepted at the outset that many substances, not only herbicides and pesticides, are toxic when used incorrectly or used for a purpose for which they are not designed. Indeed, as one world authority has stated: "There are no harmless substances; there are only harmless ways of using substances'. 
The use of agricultural chemicals for pest and disease control has for many years been an essential ingredient in increasing levels and quality of agricultural production not only in Australia but throughout the world. Herbicides and pesticides are by their very nature toxic to certain types of living cells. Indeed were this not so they would be totally ineffective for the purpose for which they are manufactured. The aim must be, therefore, to establish safe usage of herbicides and pesticides. This clearly demands that such substances must be exhaustively tested before being put on the market. 
Let me set out at this stage the present procedures for the examination of agricultural chemicals before they are released on the Australian market. Eminent scientific and medical experts in this country study in the utmost detail the results of all the exhaustive tests carried out all over the world. The deliberations and subsequent reports of the various committees and councils on which these experts sit form the basis on which action regarding subsequent use of herbicides and pesticides is taken and on which legislation is based. In this regard I would mention in particular the Australian Agricultural Council and the National Health and Medical Research Council. No agricultural chemical is accepted for registration in any part of Australia without these exhaustive studies having been completed and without the recommendations of these bodies on which sit some of our leading experts. These procedures have been in operation for many years and have proved to be entirely satisfactory and at this time I see no reason to suggest any change. 
I now come to the question of the review of all aspects- including safety- relating to agricultural chemicals subsequent to their initial release for general use. It is recognised that it is necessary that all such substances' should be kept under continuous review to ensure that unexpected or untoward effects which may arise at a later date do not pass unnoticed and that appropriate remedial action is taken. I can assure honourable members that the recommendations of the National Health and Medical Research Council and the Australian Agricultural Council for clearance for registration of agricultural chemicals are kept under constant review and revised as necessary in the light of information obtained from a multitude of worldwide sources. 
In recent years the work associated with the review of these substances has increased in volume and complexity. There have been tremendous advances in technology. In line with this, moves are at present afoot to strengthen my own Department's ability to meet the challenge. A national drug information service with computer facilities has been established and is at present being further developed. Work is already in progress to expand this into a comprehensive drugs and poisons information service and I feel confident that my ministerial counterparts in the States will be happy to give whatever assistance is required to allow this to progress. 
Honourable members will appreciate that it is essential for those who use chemicals and other potentially dangerous substances to be fully aware of the restrictions in usage, safety directions, precautions and so forth to ensure safety to themselves and others. This is normally accomplished by appropriate labelling. In Australia labelling is controlled by State and Territory legislation and with agricultural chemicals the inclusion of various statements concerning composition, use, directions, limitation, precautions and safety is mandatory. The language used routinely is English. Unfortunately, some members of our community whose command of the language is not entirely adequate could experience some difficulty and it has been suggested that translations into other languages would be the means of overcoming these difficulties. What is generally not appreciated is that the labelling is frequently lengthy and complex and consequently direct translation into several languages is simply not practicable. Difficulties of this nature are recognised and machinery, including the appointment of ethnic liaison officers, has been set up to look into such problems. 
This brings me to the Senate Committee 's final recommendation concerning the examination by the Minister for Health of the current machinery for the systematic collection of information on the occurrence and frequency of congenital abnormalities and of types of cancer. Since the tabling of the report, I have carefully examined the situation and I am confident that much can be done to rectify any deficiencies in data collections which are recognised here in Australia. At the same time I would stress that such deficiencies are by no means confined to this continent but are seen as a worldwide problem. Our present weaknesses are seen to be incomplete data collection in some areas and a lack of coordination on a nationwide scale. Some deficiencies in the machinery for the analysis of collected data are also apparent. 
A need is seen for the collection of more comprehensive information on toxic effects of substances including the underlying causes of birth defects which are not of genetic origin. Indeed I believe it would not be stressing this aspect too far if I were to say that much of the public concern and indeed alarm which has been generated recently could have been allayed if basic data relating to possible extra-genetic causes of foetal abnormalities had been more extensive. 
Whilst recent concern has been concentrated on the possible effects of 2,4,5-T and to a lesser extent 2,4-D, both of which have been extensively researched, there has been little comment on the other environmental factors- some occurring naturally, some generated by man's inventiveness- which could result in foetal abnormalities. Bearing in mind the need to keep the whole subject in proper perspective, I propose that the following developments should take place: Collection of perinatal statistics should be extended to cover the whole country. This information is currently collected in only two StatesWestern Australia and Tasmania. The next Health Ministers' Conference in June 1979 was to have discussed this extension. However, I am now suggesting to my colleagues in the other four States that we proceed immediately with those discussions as a matter of priority. 
The total cost of extending the data collection system to the other four States is estimated at $ 120,000 per annum which it is suggested should be met on a cost-sharing basis, and the Commonwealth Government is prepared to meet half the cost of this. My counterparts in the States will be approached to obtain their views regarding this. Since the analysis of the data, related to births, from these various statistical systems would need to be performed on a nationwide basis, a national perinatal statistical unit will need to be set up. The cost of this in the next financial year is estimated at $80,000, increasing to $ 100,000 in the following year. 
Collection of information on acute poisonings and cancers is already covered reasonably satisfactorily and, whilst some improvement may be necessary in these fields, major restructuring of systems is not envisaged. The analysis of data in relation to these two aspects is an appropriate function of an expanded national drug poisons information service to which I referred a few moments ago. I am confident that the establishment of these systems will allow more extensive monitoring of the incidence of poisonings, congenital abnormalities and cancers and will allow detection at an early stage of change in disease patterns in the community which might be attributable to toxic environmental substances. 
In order to concentrate specifically on the effects of various substances on pregnant women, I am asking the National Health and Medical Research Council to advise on the feasibility and the desirability of conducting a prospective study extending over possibly 3 years. If such a study were considered to be necessary- and the comments of the experts on the possible additional benefits will be awaited- there is no doubt that costs would be high and could well amount to over $2m a year. 
In the meantime, I reiterate the advice given by the National Health and Medical Research Council in June of this year following a study of all information available at that time regarding 2,4,5-T, 2,4-D and the risks of foetal abnormalities. The conclusions reached by the Council were: Firstly, the use of 2,4-D is not producing any risk to human health; there is no evidence that it is linked to human birth defects; and, secondly, in the light of present knowledge there is no reason to place any additional restrictions on the use of 2,4,5-T. Council could find no substantiated scientific evidence of a causal link between the use of 2,4,5-T and human birth defects. These agricultural chemicals have both been in use for around 30 years and different action to control their use have been taken in various parts of the world. Although a few countries do not use these chemicals, nevertheless, controlled usage has been adopted as the method of choice on a wide scale. 
With the extensive information which has been available and with the advice provided to me by the experts, all of whom are held in high esteem in our community, I see no reason at this time for suggesting any changes in current practices. However, all chemicals must be kept under constant review. I am confident that this will continue to be done in this country and that the extensions to the various data collections which I have suggested will provide us with a system which will compare favourably with any other country.  I  present the following paper 
Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment: Herbicides, Pesticides and Human Health-Ministerial Statement, 24 November 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) and (2) In the answer which was prepared in response to question No. 167S, the reference to the answer to question No. 1674 was followed by the words. 'The review mentioned there also covers manuals and internal circulars'. These words were inadvertently omitted from the answer that was given. I am grateful to the honourable member for bringing this accident to notice and enabling the record to be corrected. 
While there are some departmental records and rulings which are confidential and it is not possible to give blanket access to all manuals and internal circulars, the greater part of the material in these documents would be available for inspection by members and would be disclosed to any member of the general public who needed access to it. If the honourable member needs advice on any specific matter, and he would be helped by knowing the relevant departmental rulings, he might give me details of his particular interests. I will see what information can be made available to him. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (5) As the response to the question is quite lengthy I refer the honourable member to the information provided in the Minister for Productivity's answer to Question No. 1794 which appeared in House of Representatives  Hansard,  23 November 1978, page 3351. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. However, the Department of Social Security maintains an index of Questions on Notice and Questions Without Notice which are asked of the Minister and Minister representing the Minister where the questions relate to Social Security matters. 
The index consists of a listing by subject of questions asked. 
Current. 
Most officers of the Department have access to the index of questions but in practice it is only used by those concerned with preparing briefing material to answer Parliamentary Questions. 
Legal Aid in Victoria 
-The Minister for Social Security has provide the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
No information stored in a computer owned or operated by the Department of Social Security is sold, hired or lent to any person or organisation. 
Section 17 of the Social Services Act, which governs the confidentiality of of information between the Department of Social Security and its clients, provides for the release of information in the following circumstances: 
where the Minister or the Director-General certifies that it is in the public interest; 
b ) to any prescribed authority or person; or 
when it is considered that the person about whom the information relates has expressly or impliedly authorised its release. 
Authorities or persons to whom information is released are subject to the same obligations and liabilities in relation to that information as officers of the Department 
The authorities or persons to whom information may be released are set out in Senate  Hansard  of 16.1 1.76 (pages 1935-37) and Senate  Hansard of  17.1 1.76 (pages 2033-38). Since 17.11.76 the following additions have been made to that list:- 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As stated in the reply to Question No. 1676 (page 1884  Hansard,  12 October 1978) the Department of Social Security does not knowingly grant pensions or benefits to persons who entered Australia without any entry permit 
Statistics to enable part (2) of the Question to be answered are not available in the Department of Social Security. The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has advised that statistics on the number of people who, over the last five years, have entered this country without an entry permit, are not readily available. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has advised that 1684 people have arrived without prior permission in 46 boats, the last of these being on 13 November this year. 
The Department of Social Security does not keep separate statistics 07 this group of people and it therefore not known how many of these people are currently in receipt of a benefit from that Department 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question.  (1), (2) and (3) The Department of Social Security does not keep separate statistics of the persons who have had their benefits terminated on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Employment Service. Although statistics are kept in . relation to appeals to the Social Security Appeals Tribunals and of the decisions given by those tribunals m favour of the appellants, no separate record has been kept of the number of cases which arose out of CES decisions. 
The information the honourable member has requested could only be obtained by examining all of the department's unemployment cases. As there are about a million new unemployment benefit claims each year and the files are destroyed after an applicant has been off benefit for a relatively short time, it would not be practicable to obtain the requested information in the latter years, and it would be impossible to obtain it in relation to the earlier years in relation to which most files would have been destroyed. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) At 4 September 1978 there were 2,378 males in receipt of Supporting Parents Benefit 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. This applies to both males and females in receipt of Supporting Parents ' Benefits. 
The same Commonwealth Benefits as those provided to holders of the Pensioner Health Benefits Card with the exception of pharmaceuticals. 
There is no discrimination between a woman and a man receiving a supporting parents benefit The concessions available to all Supporting Parents are the same as those provided by the Labor Government to female Supporting Parents. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) The gross saving in 1978-79 resulting from the imposition of the income test on pension increases for age pensioners aged 70 years and over is estimated to be about $14 million. 
The Department of Social Security conducts regular computer surveys of pensioners and beneficiaries. One of the statistics obtained from these surveys is 'income as assessed '. 
Using the latest available income distribution of age pensioners it was estimated that 500,000 age pensioners aged 70 years or more would receive the full increase in pension rates, some 20,000 would receive part increases and some 250,000 would not qualify for any increase in pension rates. For pensioners with income not stated it was assumed that they would not be eligible for any income tested increases. 
The next automatic pension increase will be in November 1979 and will be based on the movement in the Consumer Price Index between June Quarter 1 978 and June Quarter 1979. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) The Public Service Board specifies the form of travel used by departmental staff; (b) The prior approval of the Prime Minister is required for overseas travel by a member of the Minister's personal staff including any proposal to travel on Concorde aircraft 
Not applicable as no such journey has been undertaken. 
(a) (i) Nil) (ii) Nil; (iii) Nil; (b) (i) NU; (ii) Nil; (iii) Nil; (c) (i) Nil; (ii) Nil, (iii) Nil. 
Nil. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the  following  answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) No, but the Department is providing funds for the construction of home units for old persons in Railway Place which is adjacent to Francis Street 
The Country Women's Association, Yea Branch. 
The conditions of grant are set out in the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act which provides for the formal documentation of a grant by an agreement at the discretion of the Director-General of Social Security. The usual practice is that a standard form of agreement, embodying the terms and conditions of the grant, is drawn and negotiated with the organisation when the grant is authorised. 
A similar question was asked by the honourable member on 1 5 August and I refer him to my reply which appeared in  Hansard  on 12 September 1978, page 903. 
Pensions: Payment by the United Kingdom to Residents in Australia  (Question No. 2992) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The British Department of Health and Social Security recently decided that the payment of its National Insurance pensions in Australia should be made by order direct from its United Kingdom Central Office in the same way as its pensions are paid in all other countries. 
These changed arrangements were the result of initiatives by the United Kingdom authorities and were not sought by the Australian Department of Social Security. 
and (3) Bank charges for negotiating United Kingdom pension orders are a matter for determination by banks themselves. 
Pensions to sufferers of Asbestos Caused Diseases  (Question No. 2993) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The information necessary to answer this question is not available. 
There are no special provisions in the Social Services Act to provide payment for persons suffering from industrially caused diseases such as exposure to asbestos or coke fumes. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) Yes. The report, A Place of Dignity, was tabled in Parliament on 9 June 1978. It is descriptive only. It does not make specific recommendations to the Government. 
and (3) Yes. Those passages appear in the report and submissions from State Homeless Persons Advisory Committees highlight the need for more operational costs to be made available through the program. These views were taken into account in reviewing the program in July of this year. Given the Government's budgetary policy it was not possible to provide financial assistance in this year's Budget beyond that presently being made available. The Prime Minister has invited all State Governments to discuss with me future arrangements for the program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is reported to have commissioned tests on 2,4-D but to date the results are not available. The EPA has examined data on 2,4,5-T and this is noted in the United States Federal Register of 21 April 1978. The United Kingdom authorities report that they have no test results later than 1 972. 
The nature of the United States tests on 2,4-D is not yet available. On 2,4,5-T the EPA noted tests on Drosophila melanogaster, Salmonella typhimurium, in vitro cytogenetic studies on human lympocytes, work on invivo bone-marrow cells of Mongolian gerbils and an invivo study on the cytogenetic effects on bone-marrow cells of Mus musculus. The tests in the United Kingdom are described as in vitro tests made before the more sensitive 'activated' tests became available. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has not made any statement on the validity and reliability of these tests. 
Direct exposure of humans should be kept to a minimum whatever the mode of application. There is no evidence of mutagenicity occurring in humans from the use of these chemicals applied by aerial spraying. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There was only one sample that was considered to be slightly above the recommended maximum level when allowance is made for loss of moisture in cooking. 
The mercury levels, expressed in miligrams per kilogram of cooked fish, found m summer, autumn, winter and spring respectively for each of the capital cities are as follows: 
Levels found in the 1976 survey for summer, winter and spring conducted in Hoban exceeded levels found for those seasons in Hobart in any previous NH &amp; MRC Market Basket Survey. 
The Council's recommended level for mercury in fresh fish is 0.5 milligram per kilogram. However, this figure increases to 0.8 to 0.85 milligram per kilogram of cooked fish due to water loss during cooking. 
Where high levels of mercury or any other deleterious substance are found in the food samples, the results are brought to the attention of the State health authorities responsible for administering food legislation incorporating the NH &amp; MRC recommended maximum residue limits. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department is aware of the recent reinterpretation of the Nurses Registration Act, New South Wales. I understand that the action taken by the New South Wales authorities applies only to the registration of Nursing Aides whose training was undertaken outside that State. The Hospital and Allied Services Advisory Council considered this matter at its most recent meeting held in October 1978. Council was informed that the Nurses Registration Act, New South Wales was in the process of being amended so as to rectify the situation. 
The issues of uniform standards for nurse training and reciprocity of registration are the prerogative of State and Territory nurse registration authorities. 
Both matters are currently under consideration by the Australasian Nurse Registration Authorities Conference which meets biennially. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The 10 nations that have the largest life expectancy for men and women and the respective life expectancies are shown in Table 1. 
The expectation of life at birth for Japan is shown in Table 2. The large increase is due to a very low life expectancy responding to post-war development and an increase in living standards, bringing life expectancy up to the levels typical of developed countries. As demonstrated in Table 2, the period of large increase was between 1947 and 1958 with an average yearly increase of 1.36 years for males and 1.43 years for females. 
However the average annual increase slowed considerably after that period, and since 1 958 the average annual increase has been 0.41 years for males and 0.44 years for females. 
Australian expectation of life figures are shown in Table 3. It is not true that Australia's expectation of life reached a plateau in the early 1970s and is now falling slightly; rather, the trend is one of increasing life expectancy. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been reported an instance where it is alleged that a private health fund did not offer an interview to a 
Medibank employee on the basis that the person had formerly been employed with that particular fund. I might mention however that inquiries have been received by the Health Insurance Commission from other private funds seeking to employ Medibank staff. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) My Department has no detailed knowledge of either the health risks encountered by United States personnel or the monitoring procedures employed during the United States atomic weapons testing program and it is not possible to make a comparison with the tests conducted by the British. However, for nuclear tests conducted within Australia by Britain the most stringent safeguards to the health of personnel were implemented at every level. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The term 'socially disadvantaged' has not been used either by myself or my Department for some months. Recognizing that the term was an inappropriate one, I directed early in September1978 that in the future the term 'disadvantage' be used instead. This decision was, of course, taken well in advance of  Mr Pemberton's  article. 
and (4) Doctors have traditionally made decisions regarding the capacity of their patients to pay their medical accounts. The relationship between a patient and his doctor is quite unique- indeed quite personal and lends itself to discussion and decision regarding the ability of the patient to pay. I would not wish to change the arrangement to include a third party, e.g. a social worker. 
I am not aware of any widespread uneasiness among doctors on this matter. On the contrary the Australian Medical Association supports the current arrangements. 
As stated previously doctors have traditionally made decisions in the context of the unique doctor/patient relationship regarding the ability of their patients to pay and I would not wish to take any action which would interfere with this situation. 
7 ) As the term ' socially disadvantaged ' is no longer used, no purpose would be achieved in offering my opinion as to whether the groups mentioned are or are not disadvantaged socially. Decisions as to whether patients included in the groups mentioned would be regarded as 'disadvantaged' would be made in individual cases by doctors in discussion with the patients. 
Aflatoxin Levels in Peanuts (Question No. 2718) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Aflatoxin levels found in five of 24 samples of peanuts examined in the 1976 Market Basket Survey exceeded the maximum level recommended by the National Health and Medical Research Council (N.H. and M.R.C.). 
The aflatoxin levels found in peanuts expressed in milligrams per kilogram found in summer, autumn, winter and spring respectively for each of the capital cities are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The emergence of organisms resistant to different antibiotics has given rise to general concern and has been the subject of intense study. Expert bodies in several countries have been convened by authorities, including the World Health Organization to advise on this matter. Educational means, restrictions on prescribing under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, and stricter control of antibiotic use within hospitals have been employed in Australia. The National Health and Medical Research Council keeps this matter under continuing review. Two specialist groups have been convened by Council to advise on the use of antibiotics with particular reference to their use in animal husbandry. The most recent statement by Council was made at its 83rd Session in April 1977. Council was of the opinion that the use of therapeutic antibiotics as growth promotants in animal feedstuffs could lead to an impairment of their efficacy in the treatment of human disease. This is of concern. The action it is expected will be taken by the States and Territories is that the recommendations of the Council will be incorporated into their legislation. The recommendations were that several antibiotics, including penicillins, tetracyclines, sulphonamides and chloramphenicol should be prohibited from use as growth promotants in animal husbandry in Australia. The necessary amendments have already been made to the Uniform Poisons Standard of the National Health and Medical Research Council to give effect to these recommendations. I have arranged for a copy of the extract from the report of the 83rd Session of Council to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
These matters are being pursued with the Department of Primary Industry, and with State and Territory Departments of Agriculture. 
There is a consenus that the use of antibiotics in animal feed additives is a contributing factor; this is attested to by the recommendations of the Swann Committee which studied the matter in the United Kingdom, the working group convened by the World Health Organization in 1973, and a Working Party convened by the National Health and Medical Research Council to study antibiotics in human and veterinary medicine. 
A close liaison is already being maintained with the Department of Primary Industry. A senior officer of that Department was a member of the N.H. and M.R.C. Working Party. The recommendations of Council have been brought to the notice of the Technical Committee on Veterinary Drugs which is convened by the Department of Primary Industry and on which the N.H. and M.R.C. is represented. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest year for which complete information is available as to the cost of a visit is 1976-77. The average cost across the States for that year was $4.24. The cost by State was: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (a), (b) and (c) The National Health and Medical Research Council's (NH and MRC) recommended maximum limits in milligrams per kilogram or per litre for lead, cadmium and mercury in milk, drinking water and ice cream on a whole product basis are as follows: 
The recommended maximum limit for iodine in milk is 0.5 milligram per litre. No levels have been recommended for iodine m water or ice cream. 
The NH and MRC has not recommended maximum residue limits for total organochlorine compounds in any food or in water. However, the sum of the specific recommended maximum residue limits for the most commonly detected organochlorine residues, viz., DDT and its derivatives, HCB, endrin, heptachlor and lindane, in milk and ice cream are 0.078 mg/kg and 0.227 mg/kg respectively. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
, (3) and (4) See (1). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Capital Territory Health Commission employs apprentices. 
(a) and (b) None. 
The Capital Territory Health Commission offered apprenticeships over the last 6 years as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer I provided to his Question 1527 of 8 June 1978  (Hansard,  15 August 1978, page 339). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. What I said was that my Department will reimburse the private registered medical benefits organisations for the Commonwealth medical benefits that the organisations will pay to patients, and that my Department will take over from the Health Insurance Commission payments direct to doctors who bulk bill. 
No. Except where doctors bulk bill my Department, the assessment of individual patients ' claims will be made by the registered medical benefits organisations who will then submit regular consolidated claims on the Department for reimbursement of Commonwealth benefits paid. Where doctors bulk bill, my Department will assess claims. 
On the basis of past experience, there will be approximately 35 million claims made by patients in a full year under the new arrangements. Processing costs are not available at this stage, pending the emergence of figures to show the relative proportion of claims within each of the three categories. Costs will also vary from organisation to organisation, depending on such factors as the size of the membership, the nature of the membership and the degree of mechanisation employed by the organisation. 
The Health Insurance Commission has advised that it is not feasible at this time to provide this information. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. New Zealand has imported cattle from continental Europe and such cattle will be accepted into Australia through Torrens Island Quarantine Station. 
Livestock imported through Torrens Island will be subject to the usual rigorous pre-export testing under quarantine conditions and, on arrival in Australia, will be subject to such treatments and tests as are considered necessary after consultation with State and Commonwealth veterinary experts. 
A number of Australian-owned animals of United Kingdom origin are now in New Zealand. The owners of many of these animals wish to bring them to Australia. Cattle from the United Kingdom will also be accepted direct. There is no suggestion that the United Kingdom cattle will be made to go via New Zealand. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information from the Departmental computers is given to approved non Departmental recipients as specified below. No information is sold, hired or lent. 
Pharmaceutical Benefit Claim Statements: A computer printed statement is produced for each chemist who lodges a claim under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. The statement details the amount payable by drug code and category of person for prescription items covered by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Schedule. 
Pharmaceutical Benefits Cheque Data: Details of cheque payments are recorded on magnetic tape and forwarded to the Department of Finance for the printing and despatch of pharmaceutical benefit reimbursement cheques. 
c) Drugs of Dependence Information: Computer output which gives details about the importation, manufacture and distribution of drugs of dependence are routinely provided to the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, State and Territorial health authorities. 
Australian School Dental Survey Information: Computer output which illustrates the effectiveness of the School Dental Scheme is supplied to State and Territorial health authorities. 
Adverse Drug Reaction Reports: Information about adverse drug reactions (not identified as to potency) is routinely distributed to members of the medical and other allied professions and to drug manufacturers. This information is also recorded on magnetic tape and sent to the World Health Organization. Patient identity is not available. 
Doctors' Prescribing Profiles: Information about the prescribing patterns of doctors is produced for assessment by inspection pharmacists. These reports are made available to the individual doctors should counselling be necessary. The doctor's name is printed on the report to ensure that it is given to the correct person. 
The Pharmacy Earnings Survey: This survey is conducted in cooperation with the Pharmacy Guild which receives output from the survey that is used in the determination of the level of Commonwealth Government reimbursement to Pharmacists for dispensing items under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. Details relating to individual pharmacies cannot be identified. 
Committee of Inquiry Reports: Computer reports giving details of prescribing patterns by doctors are produced on request for use in the investigation of prescribing practices and for counselling doctors. Reports may be referred to Medical Services Committees of Inquiry and to the individual doctors to whom they refer. The doctor's identity is protected by a code number. 
Bibliographic Material: Information in the form of citations and abstracts relating to medical literature and journals is provided to users of the MEDLARS medical literature retrieval service which is provided by the Department in conjunction with the National Library of Australia. 
Classification of Medical Literature: A computerised information retrieval system which provides cataloguing information for classifying medical literature is available to Departmental and other medical libraries. 
Virus Reports: Reports summarising the incidence of human virus infections are produced using the computers and distributed to 330 organisations. (Commonwealth, State and Territorial hospitals and laboratories). 
Medical Service Providers: Information which identifies authorised medical service providers is provided on microfiche or magnetic tape to private health funds, the Health Insurance Commission and pathology service organisations. 
m ) Schedule of Medical Fees: The computers are used to produce magnetic tape files which contain the schedule of medical fees and benefits for approved medical services. This information is provided to private health funds and the Health Insurance Commission. 
Miscellaneous Survey Reports: The computers are used by the Central Statistical Unit of the Department to process information collected from various Departmental surveys (eg the Nursing Manpower Survey). Summarised information in the form of statistical tabulations is published for distribution and for inclusion in the annual and other Departmental reports. 
Computer Output Produced for Non Departmental 
Users: The Department's computers are used by the Department of Social Security, the Health Insurance Commission and other authorised Departments and organisations. These users establish and maintain their own computer files and systems, and control the dissemination of output produced by their respective data processing systems. 
The computers are used to provide a more cost effective and timely alternative to clerical procedures in support of various Departmental functions and by authorised external users of theDepartmental facilities. The dissemination of information produced using the computers is governed by the same legislative and procedural constraints that apply to information produced by conventional clerical methods. 
See(1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question as far as the Capital Territory Health Commission is concerned is as follows: 
) In general, none. However in exceptional cases clinical data of an anonymous nature may be given for research purposes to properly constituted organisations. 
) The policy is that information would only be released with appropriate authorisation and with suppression of all personal identification. 
None. 
In connection with the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission the answer to parts (1 ), (2) and (3) of the question is 'none'. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Yes. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer I provided to his Question 1S27 of 8 June 1978  (Hansard,  15 August 1978, page 339). 
Lead: Effect on Human Health  (Question No. 2374) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
With the implementation of the new arrangements from 1 November 1978 including the payment of a 40 per cent/$20 level of Commonwealth benefit for all items contained in the Medical Benefits Schedule together with the abolition of the Medibank levy, the necessity to retain the existing Medibank structure was removed. 
A decision to allow private funds to pay the 40 per cent Commonwealth benefit on behalf of the Government was taken after considering detailed advisings on the options available. It was regarded as being administratively inefficient and wasteful financially for the Commonwealth to operate its own system for paying Commonwealth benefits when the private health insurance organisations already had such a structure and would in most cases be paying their own benefits. 
In these circumstances it would also have been inappropriate to maintain a Medibank Standard structure merely to process bulk billing claims. It was decided, therefore, to transfer the function from Medibank to my Depanment together with appropriate officers who were employed by the Health Insurance Commission to carry out these functions. 
As a result of a transfer of certain functions including bulk bill processing from the Health Insurance Commission to the Department of Health a significant number of Commission staff engaged on these functions will be offered employment in the Depanment of Health. Other newly created positions relating to new departmental functions have been advertised and Medibank staff will be eligible to apply. It is expected that an appropriate adjustment will be made to the Department's staff ceiling to enable it to absorb the extra staff needed to perform additional functions decided by the Government in the Budget context. 
(a) and (b) No such estimates are available. 
and (3) Information representative of medical benefits payable for services before the benefits levels were reduced for services performed on or after 1 July 1978, from 83 per cent to 73 per cent of the Schedule fee (and the maximum patient gap increased from $5 to $10), except for eligible pensioners and their dependants, will be available within the next few months and will be provided to the honourable member when it becomes available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) I am well aware of the emerging debate about the implications of the projected oversupply of doctors. I am also well aware of the many conflicting views about the implications which can be drawn and the actions which should be taken on the matter. These were two of the factors which prompted me to initiate the establishment of a committee of officials, under the chairmanship of  Dr S.  Sax,  Chairman  of the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat, from the Departments of Education, Health, Employment and Youth Affairs and Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Tertiary Education Commission. The committee has been requested to provide advice on the implications of the current levels of supply and to develop options for action on the matter. The Government will decide, after considering the Committee's report, its policy on the matter. At the same time, my Department is investigating the possible over-supply situation, and collecting available information regarding both the issue of possible oversupply of doctors and the implications to national health costs. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Three categories of field staff have assisted in the development of child care services: 
i) Ethnic Child Care Workers are Development Officers employed specifically to assist migrant communities in child care matters. Level of grants approved in this area total $ 1 74,620 in 1 978-79. A grant of $2,530 was made in 1975-76. To date $3,142 has been spent in 1978-79. 
Children's Services Development Officers (Catalysts) were approved for funding as a pilot program in 1975-76 only. Their major function was to extend community knowledge and utilisation of the resources available and to assist the community make submissions for funding to the Interim Committee for the Children 's Commission. 
The pilot program operated only in New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania, and involved funding of $100,585, $107,610 and $39,537 respectively in these States. 
Children's Services Development Officers assist in the development and co-ordination of services for children and their families. Expenditure under this program is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has allowed flexibility and innovation between the funds on all but the basic tables of benefits. While funds have rules that limit cover in certain circumstances for people who wished to insure in higher benefit tables, I am not aware of any cases where these rules have been previously applied in such a harsh and discriminatory manner. I do not accept responsibility for the recent action by HCF to attempt to off-load its bad risk members on another fund. 
As a result of recent events the Government took action by introducing legislation which would empower the Minister to ensure that improper discrimination against contributors to medical funds does not occur on grounds of chronicity, age and other reasons. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Levels of arsenic in all 19 samples of prawns examined in the 1976 Market Basket Survey were in excess of the maximum level recommended for arsenic in foods in the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH &amp; MRC) Standard for Metals in Foods. There is no specific entry for prawns in the Standard. 
The arsenic levels in milligrams per kilogram found in prawns in summer, autumn, winter and spring respectively were as follows for the capital cities indicated: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the direction of the Australian Health Ministers' Conference a Joint Commonwealth/State/Territory Working Party is currently developing a model Food Act and Associated Regulations intended for uniform application throughout Australia. 
The drafting of the Model Food Act is finalised and work on the Model Regulations is well advanced. The Model Regulations include health requirements and standards for the production of cheese. 
It is expected that the completed Model Food Act and Regulations will be presented to the 1979 Health Ministers' Conference. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have noted the terms of the honourable member's speech on 14 November 1978. 
The subsidy provided to persons covered by Standard Medibank who wished to be treated in hospital by their private doctor was introduced by virtue of the compulsory nature of health insurance which operated from 31 October 1976. In Queensland, the subsidy amounted to IS cents per week for single persons and in other States up to 75 cents per week. 
The Government considered there to be no longer sufficient justification to continue the subsidy with the abolition of compulsory health insurance, and the health insurance levy, with effect from 3 1 October 1978. In particular, withdrawal of such a small amount was not seen as a deterrent to persons continuing to maintain basic hospital insurance cover if that is their desire. 
The honourable member will, of course, be aware that the Government continues to provide a standard level of hospital (and medical) cover to uninsured persons, including pensioners, without direct cost to them. 
I am not aware of the number of persons involved, but it could be expected that some would be pensioners. 
It is not correct to say that the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited (Queensland) requires pensioners to contribute to two tables to obtain 'extra' benefits cover on and from 1 November 1978. The position is that prior to 1 November 1978 M.B.F. operated a table of benefits designated 'R' (Extra-cover), which was available to all persons at a monthly family contribution rate of $9.10, offering benefits covering the 25 per cent 'gap' between basic table benefits (75 per cent of the Schedule doctors' fees) and the Schedule fees, as well as benefits for a wide range of ancillary services. At that time this meant in effect that pensioners contributing for such cover were paying for a higher 'gap' than was necessary Le. they were eligible for Commonwealth benefits of 85 per cent of the Schedule fees leaving a 'gap' of only 15 per cent (maximum payment for service $5). 
Table 'PZ' introduced on 1 November 1978 is specifically tailored for pensioners in that it offers benefits covering the 15 per cent 'gap' (maximum $5) between pensioners' Commonwealth medical benefits entitlements (85 per cent) and the Schedule fees, as well as the same benefits cover for ancillary services as previously available under Extracover, for a monthly family contribution rate of $ 1 4.73. 
The above change indicates, prima facie, that there should have been a reduction in contributions rather than an increase as occurred. However, the increase in contribution rates was necessary to correct the adverse operating experience recorded on the previous contribution/benefit structure. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Ethylene glycol depresses the central nervous system and has a severe toxic action on the kidneys. 
Initial symptoms of acute poisoning resulting from ingestion of a massive dose (in excess of 100 ml in a single dose) are those of alcoholic intoxication. These symptoms soon progress to vomiting, cyanosis, headache, abnormal respiration, pulmonary aedema, stupor, anuria and unconsciousness with convulsions. Death may occur within a few hours from respiratory failure. Patients who have prolonged coma or convulsions may incur irreversible brain damage. 
Although inhalation of ethylene glycol is not generally hazardous because of its low vapour pressure, chronic poisoning resulting from continued exposure to the vapours has been reported to induce unconsciousness, nystagmus and lymphocytosis. 
In relation to occupational exposure there appears to be no hygiene standard in which the term 'aerosol form' is employed. However, in relation to the vapour, the National Health and Medical Research Council recommends threshhold limit levels (hygienic standards) for ethylene glycol vapour of 100 parts per million or 260 milligrams per cubic metre. These hygiene standards are intended as guides only in the control of health hazards and not as dividing lines between safe and dangerous concentrations. In setting these hygiene standards, exposures are assumed to take place over an eight hour work shift in the absence of severe physical stress and to be followed by an exposure-free period of sixteen hours or more during which detoxification occurs. Adjustments in hygiene standards may be necessary when exposure is accompanied by excessive heat, humidity or hyperbaric work. Exhaust facilities and adequate ventilation would seem most appropriate to ensure these hygiene standards are maintained. 
The addition of boiling water to ethylene glycol would be likely to increase the vapour concentration. Cases have been reported overseas where workers dealing with ethylene glycol heated to 105°C exhibited symptoms associated with chronic poisoning, but most recovered on being transferred to another work location. Again there appears to be no recommended practice to ensure minimal occupational exposure specifically related to ethylene glycol when heated, but exhaust facilities and adequate ventilation would again be appropriate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost-sharing agreements with each of the States provide that services including medical and pharmaceutical services, when provided by a recognised hospital shall, to the extent appropriate to the care and treatment provided by the hospital, be provided as out-patient services. Victoria and South Australia raise outpatient charges for patients who have hospital insurance; New South Wales has also introduced a charging policy but is negotiating a collection arrangement through the health insurance organisations. 
and (3) Information on the outpatient costs of recognised hospitals is not available from all States. However, data from those States able to provide some information regarding outpatient costs indicate that for the current financial year, 1978-79, the overall average cost per outpatient occasion of service over those States will be approximately $19. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The particular Busselton study which was published in Volume 52 ( 1977) of Archives of Disease in Childhood has been noted. 
It is acknowledged that the cause of coronary heart disease is multifactorial and certain 'risk factors' have been identified by various medical researchers. One of these 'risk factors' is a high level of blood cholesterol. There have been many suggested causes for raised blood cholesterol levels one of which is the intake of foods rich in cholesterol. 
There has been, and still is, considerable research devoted to heart disease, some of which has been funded by the National Health and Medical Research Council. Officers of my Department are constantly monitoring the literature on this subject and are aware of current theories. A number of these are apparently conflicting. 
Appreciating the significance of the factors that have been found to be associated with heart disease but bearing in mind the need for further research my Department does not place emphasis in its nutrition publications on undue restriction of substances such as saturated fats and/or cholesterol. Rather it advocates the consumption of a wide variety of foods, all in moderate amounts. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the hospital cost-sharing agreements between the Commonwealth Government and each State Government, whereby the Commonwealth meets 50 per cent of the agreed net operating costs of recognised (that is, public) hospitals, the States provide to in-patients and registered out-patients of recognised hospitals, surgical aids and appliances free of charge when they are considered necessary for the discharge of the patient and in the ongoing treatment, care, rehabilitation, etc. of the patient by the hospital. The types of aids and appliances supplied differ to some extent between the States. 
Assistance is not generally available through private hospitals as they are autonomous bodies outside the public hospital system. Notwithstanding this, the Commonwealth makes a significant contribution towards the operating costs of private hospitals in the form of a direct payment of $ 1 6 for each in-patient bed day. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1975-76 nil; (b) 1976-77 $11,100; (c) 1977-78 $4,000. 

 Mr Jonathon Gaul was engaged to provide consulting services, through Hoquara Pty Ltd, covering advice relating to preparation and dissemination of information material for the introduction of the revised Medibank Scheme in October 1976. 
In May 1978  Mr Gaul  was again engaged, through Hoquara Pty Ltd, as a consultant to assist with the public relations presentation of changes made to the Health Insurance system operative from 1 November 1978. 
Yes, $8,000. 
The payments relate to the engagement in May 1978 of  Mr Gaul. 
No. 
Small Businesses in Britain (Question No. 3112) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) By arrangement, State authorities operate and maintain quarantine waste disposal facilities at seaports. 
Under a Commonwealth/States cost sharing arrangement initiated in 1966, the Commonwealth reimbursed States for the construction of a number of incinerators for the disposal of quarantine waste at seaports nominated by the States. At present the provision of additional quarantine waste disposal facilities at seaports is undertaken by State authorities in consultation with the Commonwealth. Arrangements are in hand for the provision of additional waste disposal facilities at Newcastle and Wallaroo seaports and Cairns airport at Commonwealth expense. 
Under the 1966 arrangement operating and maintenance costs of these incinerators are borne by the States. In 1976 the Commonwealth approached the States with a view to negotiating a new arrangement which would provide an equitable basis for sharing these costs. Specific proposals were referred to the States for consideration in July 1977. Replies have been received from five States. Financial and administrative implications of alternative proposals put by these States are being examined. When this examination has been completed, the matter wil be referred to Government for consideration. 
The provision of additional quarantine waste disposal faculties by the Commonwealth at seaports and airports is being considered in the light of new, more efficient means of waste disposal developed in the Animal Quarantine Branch of my Department and now being implemented for the seaports of Newcastle and Wallaroo and Cairns airport. This new approach involves the maceration and sterilisation of waste as an alternative to incineration. The macerator/steriliser units proposed are significantly less costly than incinerators in most applications, avoid the pollution and other problems which are sometimes associated with incinerators and are far less costly to maintain and operate. Further, as the macerator/steriliser unit is planned as a closed in-line system, post-treatment contamination is avoided. 
As the material has been sterilised liquids may be run to sewer or septic and solids sent to sanitary land fill. Alternatively, all material may go to a wet land-fill area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A leaflet in 13 languages, being those most spoken by visitors to Australia, is expected to be available towards the middle of this year. It is intended for issue with all visas provided for travellers to Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, but the situation cannot be stated as simply as it has been by the honourable member. Hospital benefits of $80 per day would comprise two components: basic hospital benefits $40 per day for which all single contributors, irrespective of age pay the same contribution rate, half the family rate. 
Supplementary cover $40 per day for which HBA apply the same rate for single as family contributors. The basis for the flat rate is the claims experience from both single and family contributors. The flat rate contribution has applied since 1 May 1978. 
The present cost of the $80 per day hospital benefit is: single $5.96 per week family $7.48 per week. 
Contributions for other supplementary tables ( up to $30 per day) for single persons are half the family rate. 
Some members could be disadvantaged by the annual limit of 70 days hospital benefits but such members are guaranteed basic benefits which provide them with full cover at shared ward level in recognised hospitals with doctor of choice without limitations which apply for supplementary tables. Funds which have limits on supplementary tables consider them necessary to maintain insurance rates at reasonable levels. ( 3 )Limiting rules are currently under investigation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Special enabling legislation would be required. This would require an examination to be made of the constitutional validity of the proposal. 
No, as far as the Commonwealth is concerned. I have noinformation as to whether any of the States has given consideration to the matter. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Increases in nursing home fees may be approved by my Department on receipt of specific applications from individual proprietors who can demonstrate that they have necessarily incurred increased costs in providing nursing home care. General or across-the-board increases are not normally granted. 
Of a total of 286 nursing homes located in the four regions designated as 'metropolitan' by the New South Wales Health Commission (which include several areas not normally considered as Sydney Metropolitan) fee increases were approved for 212 and a further 37 experienced reductions in their fees during the period 1 August 1978 to 9 November 1978. 
The individual homes for which fee increases were approved and their actual approved fees current as at 9 November 1978 are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Up to 31 January 1979, IS months have elapsed since a case of endemic smallpox was detected anywhere in the world. The last case had onset of rash on 26 October 1 977 in Somalia. Ethiopia, Somalia and Kenya are still regarded as possible endemic areas. Two cases in the United Kingdom with onsets of rash on 13 August and 8 September 1 978 were associated with a laboratory, located in a non-endemic area. 
The Second World Health Organisation Expert Committee on Smallpox Eradication stated that eradication of smallpox is defined as the elimination of clinical illness caused by variola virus. Since smallpox is transmitted direct from person to person in a continuing chain of transmission and since there is no recognised animal reservoir of the disease, the absence of clinically apparent cases in humans may be assumed to signify the absence of naturally occurring smallpox. 
In order to confirm the interruption of smallpox transmission, an effective surveillance is needed so that clinical infections can be detected. It is usually considered that at least two years should have elapsed after the last known endemic case before it is considered that smallpox transmission has been interrupted. 
The World Health Organisation has established a Global Commission under which health experts are now monitoring surveillance activities with a view to determining whether and/or when smallpox eradication has been achieved. 
Australia requires valid international certificates of vaccination against smallpox only from travellers over the age of 12 months who within the preceding 14 days have been in a country any part of which is infected with smallpox. Currently this applies to Ethiopia, Somalia and Kenya in Africa. 
Some countries have a similar policy but again others still require all travellers to have smallpox vaccination certificates even though the travellers have not been within 14 days in a country any part of which is infected. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2903, Weekly  Hansard,  24 November 1 978, page 3577. 
(3)- 
None. However, one Department of Health officer has travelled on a Concorde aircraft. At the request of the Pharmacy Guild, a senior Departmental officer accompanied two senior Guild members on a visit in April 1977 to the USA and Great Britain to ascertain the position in those countries on chemists' remuneration for the supply of pharmaceutical benefits. The itinerary was planned by the Guild members and travel arrangements made for the Departmental officer were the same as those which the Guild members advised they had made. A detailed itinerary, which showed flight BA578 on 15 April 1977 from Washington to London, formed part of the submission to the Oversea Visits Committee, which approved the proposed visit in March 1977. It transpired that flight BA 578 was a Concorde flight. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) and (b) The research project will take into account nutritional data which is already available. Aboriginal health workers will be used as interpreters. 
One of the specific aims of the project is correlation and analysis of epidemiological data relating to ear and respiratory infections. This will include definition of clinical stages of disease, family and social patterns, relation to socio-economic status, nutritional state, age, sex, personal habits, climate and geographical location, association with epidemic infections and assessment of probable causative and risk factors. 
The need for improving environmental factors has long been recognised by my Department and by the Northern Territory Health Department and has been drawn to the attention of the various agencies concerned. Under the present circumstances, however, it is necessary both to provide treatment and to improve environmental conditions. This study is largely designed to determine the specific factors contributing to the high prevalence of otitis media in the Islands. Since a new therapeutic approach to early treatment of the disease and its effects on recurrent infections has also been proposed, officers of my Depanment are presently evaluating this aspect of the proposal, as is normal practice. 
Not only has the community been consulted and supports the project but the Northern Territory Health Department will ensure that anthropological considerations are taken into account on a continuing basis. The community will continue to be consulted on all aspects of the project. 
No. Information relating to the assessment of applications for NH &amp; MRC assistance is provided on a confidential basis and, as the honourable member will be aware, it is not the practice to table such documents. Details of the projects supported and grants awarded are published in the annual reports of the National Health and Medical Research Council which are tabled in Parliament. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 I present the annual report of the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 72 of the Health Commission Ordinance 1975 I present the annual report of the Capital Territory Health Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The States and Territories are responsible for the administration of legislation covering quality and compositional standards for cheese available for consumption in Australia. 
The Exports (Daily Produce) Regulations, administered by the Department of Primary Industry, set quality and compositional standards for dairy produce moving to export. All dairy produce which is exported must comply with these standards. In some cases, additional specifications have to be met to satisfy the regulations of importing countries, or the requirements of importing firms. 
I am aware of the desirability that as far as practicable uniform standards should apply to cheese for sale in Australia whether locally produced or imported. The same is true for other foods. 
My Department will renew inter-departmental discussions in the near future, in a further attempt to resolve current disparities in requirements. 
Current State Food legislation prohibits the presence of bleaching agents, sodium and potassium nitrates and nitrites in all cheese offered for sale in Australia whether locally produced or imported. 
The question of controlling, at the point of importation, foods containing additives prohibited in Australia (such as nitrites, nitrates and bleaching agents) will be raised in the proposed discussions referred to in part ( 1 ) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters raised in this question are primarily a responsibility of the New South Wales Government. 
Asbestos dust levels in New South Wales industries are controlled by the State's Mines Inspection Act 1901, and the Clean Air Act 1961, and adherence to prescribed standards relating to asbestos dust levels remains a matter for State regulation. 
The arrangements for Commonwealth financial assistance to New South Wales under the provisions of the New South Wales Grant (Chrysotile Corporation) Act 1978 are presently the subject of discussions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not in a position to answer for authorities in the United States of America and, consequently, I cannot say whether the dangers of asbestos have been suppressed in that country. 
In Australia, as far as I am aware, the dangers of asbestos have not been suppressed. On the contrary, efforts are directed continually towards reducing the incidence of ill health caused by asbestos. Furthermore, wherever feasible, legal and voluntary arrangements exist in Australia for the control of asbestos hazards and, where appropriate, the replacement of asbestos by other materials is encouraged. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Asbestos induced diseases include asbestosis (a progressively disabling pulmonary fibrosis or type of pneumoconiosis), some cases of bronchial carcinoma, and mesothelioma of the pleura and peritoneum There is also evidence that asbestos is associated with an excess of cancers in other organs of the body. 
Yes. The Government has been active in the introduction of preventive and control measures, mainly through the States, which have primary responsibility in this area. The legislation which exists in the States, or is soon to be brought about, is based on model regulations developed by the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH and MRC) which acts in an advisory capacity to all Governments in Australia on public health matters. 
In addition to the model regulations, the NH and MRC has produced and distributed widely the following publications: 
Code of Practice for Handling Consignments of Asbestos Fibre in Australian Ports and Container Terminals'. 
Code for the Handling of Asbestos by Small Users' 
Membrane Filter Method for Estimating Airborne Asbestos Dust' 
Occupational Health Guide-Asbestos' 
No, because this is primarily a matter for the States. However, the matter is under active consideration by the NH and MRC. Should the NH and MRC make recommendations concerning the labelling of asbestos products these will be communicated to the States for consideration for implementation through relevant State legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No studies on this subject have been carried out in Australia. However, in the United States of America, a study was carried out by Anderson and his colleagues at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, The City University of New York, to assess the risks of nonmalignant and malignant disease associated with household exposure to work-derived asbestos dust. The (preliminary) results related to 326 household contacts including 83 wives, 118 daughters, 20 sisters and 7 mothers of workers from one factory producing amosite asbestos products. 
A report on the study, 'Household- Contact Asbestos Neoplastic Risk', has been published in  Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences,  Volume 271, 1976, pages 311-323. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has the matter under investigation and expects to have the results of that investigation available to it when Council next meets, possibly in June 1 979. 
and (4) These matters are the responsibility of the State authorities. The Minister for Health in Western Australia issued a news release on this topic last July. This release covers the matters raised by the honourable member. I have arranged for a copy to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's last question is no. The cuts that are taking place or the proposed cuts that may take place in New South Wales psychiatric hospitals and geriatric hospitals have nothing to do with the Commonwealth whatsoever. The New South Wales Minister for Health is becoming very adept at passing the buck. I hope he is as efficient at administering his portfolio as he is at blaming the Federal Government for every action that raises some difficulty in his own State. The New South Wales Government, rightly, is undertaking a review of the services in that State in accordance with a statement made by the New South Wales Premier. I was shocked to see an advertisement in the  Sydney Morning Herald  this morning which on the one hand attempted to set out the facts of the actions of the New South Wales Government in regard to proposed cut backs in State services but on the other hand attempted to push all the union activity towards the Commonwealth Government. 
We have had officers talking to the New South Wales Government about rationalisation of pub.lic hospital services, cost containment, efficiency and hospital productivity. The officials have reported to the Commonwealth Government but the Commonwealth Government has not taken a position on that report. Before we would propose to give consideration to that report we would want to talk to the State Governments at ministerial level. We are not moving to force upon the State governments proposals that are going to cause unnecessary hardship in the health area. But naturally we are concerned about the ever escalating costs in the public hospital sector. Where efficiencies can be implemented we hope that this would be done by co-operation rather than by force. I reject the New South Wales Minister's blame for the difficulty that he finds himself in with the unions in New South Wales over rationalisation proposals for the New South Wales Government's psychiatric and geriatric homes. I think it is up to the Minister to face up to his responsibilities in talking with the unions concerned and other people who may be concerned as a result of the New South Wales Government's rationalisation proposals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 1794 appearing in  Hansard  of 23 November 1978 pages 3389 and 3390. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Legislation and controls over the prescribing of restricted substances is a State Government responsibility. However the Commonwealth has been concerned for some time about the increasing incidence of forged prescriptions for drugs of addiction. The National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence, comprising senior Federal and State health and law enforcement officers, is currently directing its attention to this matter. I understand that at the next meeting of this Committee in March or April 1 979, it will be considering reports on the progress of two pilot studies being conducted by the West Australian and Tasmanian Health Departments into the use of special serially numbered prescription forms for drugs of addiction or Schedule 8 drugs. The forms being used in the trials were supplied by my Department.. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following information is provided following consultation with the Health Commission of New South Wales. 
Four, viz, women's health centres at Leichhardt, Liverpool, Bankstown and Mayfield (Newcastle). In addition to these projects, the Rape Crisis Centre (Surry Hills), the Pregnancy Help Centre (Strathfield) and the Central Coast Women's Health Services Co-ordinator (Gosford) also receive financial assistance under the Community Health Program, but the latter projects are not classified as women's health centres. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Exemptions from the 120 day quarantine period are not granted to importers. Exemptions are granted to manufacturers of individual brands of cheese for each specific type of cheese, after examination of the protocol of manufacture has demonstrated that no quarantine risk is involved. Several importers may import the same cheese. 
The total number of cheeses for which manufacturing protocols have been received is 582. Of these 509 have been granted quarantine exemption, 54 have been refused exemption and 1 9 are under consideration. 
Figures showing total amounts of cheese imported are listed below. Figures are not kept on amounts imported either by country or by variety. Exemptions have been granted to certain manufacturers for specific cheeses from Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, France, Germany, Greece, Holland, Italy, Romania, Switzerland and South Africa. All cheeses from foot and mouth disease free countries are exempt from the quarantine. 
The Bureau of Statistics advises that imports of cheese during the period 1 1 November 1976 to 30 September 1978 totalled 20,948 tonnes. During this period the amount of cheese imported that had been granted quarantine exemption on Permits to Import was 5,721.19 tonnes. The amount of cheese that had to undergo the 120 days quarantine period was 1,576.77 tonnes. 
The remaining 13,650.04 tonnes was cheese imported from the countries recognised by Australia as being free of foot and mouth disease and consequently unaffected by quarantine restrictions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Items 274-275 covering induction and management of second trimester labour were introduced into the Medical Benefits Schedule from 1 October 1976 on the recommendation of the Medical Benefits Schedule Revision Committee. The Schedule Revision Committee had accepted the need for the specific item as suggested by the Federal AMA Co-ordinating Committee of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. 
Item 6469 covering evacuation of the contents of the gravid uterus by curettage or suction curettage was introduced into the Schedule from 22 April 1974 as part of the recommendations of the Medical Fees Tribunal 1973 which was under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  J. T. Ludeke. This item formed part of the Australian Medical Association's submission to the Tribunal and was included in the Association's List of Medical Services and Fees 1973. 
Neither the Schedule Revision Committee nor the Medical Fees Tribunal had any regard to these rulings. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) For the year ended 30 June 1978, it is estimated that private health funds other than Medibank Private paid approximately $1.4m in medical benefits under these items. During the same period, Medibank paid approximately $2m but the split of this figure between Medibank Standard and Medibank Private is not available. 
This information is not available. Under the terms of the hospital cost sharing agreements, the net operating costs of recognised (public) hospitals are shared by the Commonwealth and each State Government. The cost of treatment for specific medical treatments is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the purposes of answering the question, I have regarded as relevant only those projects funded under the Community Health Program. 
In answering ( 1 ) 'community health centre' has been construed as meaning a community-based facility that has the characteristics of a general community health service, as distinct from a specialised service (e.g. a mental health or alcoholism service) that provides two or more categories of service (e.g. medical, nursing, therapy, counselling), and that may or may not provide general practitioner services. 
1 ) The following information is provided following consultations with the Health Commission of New South Wales, which has immediate responsibility for the administration or supervision of community health projects in that State. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, I have received representations from  Mr Brume,  and have advised him that he will need to convince the various State authorities responsible for the legislative control of the profession of optometry and his own professional colleagues of the benefits of these new treatment concepts before they will be accepted for general practice. 
I do not consider this to be a matter in which the Federal Government should become involved. It would seem more appropriate for a peer review committee with membership drawn from the academic members of the optometry profession to examine the claims made by  Mr Brumer 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Payments of pensions and benefits are generally suspended only where there is information suggesting that entitlement no longer exists or where the recipient has failed to supply information necessary for the determination of continuing entitlement. Payments are not suspended for administrative reasons. 
The period of suspension may vary depending on the circumstances of the particular case but where payment is suspended, every effort is made to quickly resolve the question of continuing entitlement and to advise the beneficiary of the outcome. In some cases, however, where the beneficiary has failed to provide information despite at least two requests, the Department of Social Security will continue the suspension until the beneficiary supplies the necessary information. 
In either of these situations it would not be proper administration for the Department of Social Security to continue payments in full or in part where there is doubt as to eligibility. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The Prime Minister in his election policy speech in November 1977 promised to encourage families to care for their sick and aged by increasing and expanding the domiciliary nursing care benefit. 
In the Supplementary Statements which are to be read in conjunction with the policy speech of the Prime Minister, it was stated that the age limit for the domiciliary nursing care benefit would be reduced from 65 years to 16 years and the daily rate of benefit would be increased. However, I would point out to the honourable member that no timetable or target date for the introduction of the changes was announced. 
The sweetheart agreement to which the honourable member for Prospect referred really occurred while the Labor Government was in office. Doctors' fees increased by 58 per cent in the three years that it was in office. They increased on average by 7.5 per cent in the first year the present Government was in office and by 7.3 per cent the following year. We have had a fee freeze since 1 January 1978. That fee freeze will stay in operation until 1 November of this year. There is no such thing as a sweetheart agreement in the sense that there was one while the Labor Government was in office. So Opposition members should not suggest that the Government is not doing its job. As the honourable member will know, the Commonwealth Government has no control over doctors' fees. All it can hope to do is to get the co-operation of the medical profession, through its organised body, in entering into an inquiry into medical fees for benefit purposes. That is precisely what the Government is doing. The conditions which will apply to this inquiry, so far as the public is concerned, will be the same as those which applied while the Labor Party was in office. At that time none of the fees inquiries were public, but we will make public the findings of this inquiry.  Mr Justice  Ludeke, who happens to be a  Deputy President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, has been engaged to conduct the inquiry and he will make his determination public. No doubt he will make that determination after the evidence has been brought before him in the course of that inquiry. 
-Yes, I do believe that in the longer term health costs will be reduced so long as we are able to encourage our children to participate in better lifestyles and to participate more in sport and sporting activities. However, this is not to say that the Government so far has not been successful in bringing down the great escalation of health costs in Australia. When  Mr Malcolm  Fraser became the Prime Minister of Australia he and his Government inherited a situation whereby health costs were accelerating at a rate of almost 37 per cent per annum. Our preliminary estimates are that for the financial year ended 30 June 1978 the increases in costs have come down to about 10 per cent. That has been a remarkable achievement in itself. 
However, I have asked my Department to draw up a program to encourage people to engage in better lifestyles and better health programs. I have also called upon advisers in the area of nutrition to look at better nutritional programs for the Austraiian people. Through the community health program, which is one of the very good programs of the former Government, opportunity is undoubtedly given to try to do something about the preventive aspects of medicine. Clearly a tremendous opportunity exists for policies to be pursued in this area. In the last decade most of the debate inside and outside the Parliament has been on insurance schemes designed to try to help people pay for health treatment costs. I think it is about time that we started to direct our attention towards policies that are designed to try to improve the general health standards of the Australian people. To that objective,  Senator Carrick,  the Minister for Education, and I have embarked upon a program to complement the national drug education program in our schools. An advertising program will commence in the media within the next week or two. 
I have no doubt that the activities of the honourable member who raised the question will do much to improve the general health standards in his electorate. I congratulate  Mr Barry  Simon and some other members of the Parliament for their activities in this area. In particular I congratulate  Mr Barry  Simon on the initiative that he has taken. 
The first action I have decided upon is to seek from the United States the information upon which the United States Environmental Protection Agency based its decision. I checked with my Department at lunch time but the report still has not reached my Department. I am not going to pre-empt the advice that I receive from officials who are expert in this area. If there is any cause for concern I will refer that report to the National Health and Medical Research Council for immediate investigation and I will await its report. I do notice, however, that the State of Victoria has moved to place a temporary ban upon the use of 2,4,5-T in certain circumstances until such time as the NHMRC has had time to evaluate that report. In the light of its decision and in the light of the information that will come to me as a result of an examination of that report, I will take a decision in due course. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Information on asbestos-caused diseases in Australia is only available in relation to the disease asbestosis. The only statistics available are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Doctors are requested in the Notes in the Medical Benefits Schedule Book to show on their accounts the Schedule item number and a description of the service. In practice, my Department has not received complaints that doctors in general do not provide sufficient such information to enable benefit claims to be assessed. 
As regards the inclusion of the Schedule fee on the account, in my answer to Question No. 2701  (Hansard,  page 139), I stated that this would require special enabling legislation and that this would require an examination to be made of the constitutional validity of the proposal. The Commonwealth Government has no plans to take such action, as the level of fees charged by doctors is a matter for State regulation, the Commonwealth having no powers in this regard. 
Medical Services at Sydney Airport (Question No. 3215) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Arrangements have been made for a review of current bulk-billing arrangements after they have been in operation for six months. This review will be carried out in May 1979. Included in the review will be an examination of procedures for bulk-billing for pathology services. Pending the review I think it reasonable that current arrangements in respect of bulk-billing procedures by pathologists (for those patients who may legally assign benefits) should continue. 
In response to the three questions asked by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  we do not yet have sufficient statistical data on the working of the new health insurance arrangements which have applied from 1 November. However, it is probable that by 3 1 March we will have some preliminary raw statistics that I will be pleased to make available as soon as possible to the Parliament. I can report that in regard to bulk billing, for instance, it does appear that more doctors are bulk billing since 1 November but that fewer people are being bulk billed. That probably indicates that there has been a greater acceptance by the medical profession of bulk billing, probably based on an attitude to try to extend the advantage to the disadvantaged people. 
In relation to the other statistics mentioned by the honourable member it is a little early to produce them but I have asked my Department as soon as possible to ascertain figures for the House and for public consumption. The scheme itself is working extremely well. I have not had a great deal of complaint about the machinery or the operation of the scheme as such. Indeed, it seems to be going pretty well as an innovation. In regard to the other question relating to statistics applying to reducing the age pension entitlement from 65 years to 60 years, as has happened in New Zealand, I will refer that question to my colleague the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  I will provide an answer to the honourable member as soon as it comes to hand. 
I wish briefly to respond to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  who made a very useful and constructive contribution I thought, by trying to encourage people to engage in more healthy pursuits. He made a very strong case for the encouragement of sport and for more funds being made available to sport generally. I think it is very important to direct a lot of effort to encouraging State governments to do much more than they are doing for sport. They have complete control over recreational areas. I think all of us are attempting to encourage State governments to continue to do more than they are doing. Too often the community stands by hoping that the Federal Government is going to do everything- provide all the funds and all the resources. Clearly, there is a role for the Federal Government to set a national standard to try to give a lead but obviously there is great need for State governments to give a higher priority to providing proper facilities for people to engage not just in competitive sport but also in sport for recreation. I hope later in the year to launch a program in association with the 'Life. Be in it' campaign to try to encourage people into better and healthier lifestyles. We are working on a proposal at present. I hope that we will have the co-operation of both sides of the House and of the community as a whole to encourage each other to lead a better life. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Social Security is unable to confirm the number of unemployment benefits cancelled for the reasons stated as it does not record terminations of unemployment benefit by occupation of the recipient or type of job refused. Records of the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs however, show that 173 persons had been the subject of adverse work tests which resulted in termination of their unemployment benefit. Of the 173 persons S have had benefit reinstated on production of medical evidence that they were unable to perform work of the type offered. 
Where unemployment benefit is terminated for failure of the work test, payment will not be resumed until the persons involved satisfy the work test but in any event will generally not be resumed less than 6 weeks after the initial refusal of work. 
-by leave- For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee of Officials on Medical Manpower Supply. Honourable members will be well aware of the debate as to the implications for our health services of the projected levels of supply of doctors in Australia. On the one hand, we have had views expressed by respected researchers that Australia is fast moving to the situation where it will have considerably more doctors per head of population than are actually needed. It is contended that by having more doctors than we need health costs will rise unnecessarily, medical services which are not needed will be provided and that there will be little or no improvement in the health of the community. The contrasting view which has been advanced is that there would be benefits for all Australians if the supply of doctors is not regulated in the forseeable future. Exponents of this view claim that the increasing supply of doctors will lead to reductions in the prices charged for medical services and to improve geographic and functional distribution of doctors. Another dimension is given to the implications of the future supply of doctors by some communities in Australiaparticularly in country areas and some locations in our capital cities- which find it extremely difficult to attract doctors to set up practice. These communities claim the prospective increase in the number of doctors available is their best hope of getting doctors to practise in their area. 
It was against this background that the decision was made to appoint the Committee of Officials on Medical Manpower Supply. The Committee, under the chairmanship of  Dr Sidney  Sax,  Chairman  of the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat, included representatives from my Department and from the departments of Education, Employment and Youth Affairs, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and from the Tertiary Education Commission. The officials were requested to examine and so report on the implications of the current and projected levels of supply of doctors and to provide recommendations for future action. The detailed views and recommendations of the Committee of Officials are set our in the report and, while I do not propose to outline them in detail, there are some specific matters which I wish to bring to the particular attention of honourable members. 
Firstly, it is apparent that in 1981 Australia will have one doctor to 543 people. This is ten years earlier than anticipated in the report entitled 'Expansion of Medical Education' which has been adopted by successive governments as the planning basis for the intake of students into our medical schools. Secondly, it is apparent that there are some medical specialties which are either in or fast approaching an oversupply situation. For example, the officials' report concludes that the specialty of surgery exceeds its commonly accepted level of supply by a factor of four to one. On the other hand the report notes that some specialities, such as geriatrics and rehabilitation, are underserved. I think it is also worthwhile mentioning that even the expert members of that Committee took different views about the extent to which the increasing supply of doctors will affect health costs and the contribution it will make to the well-being of the community. All in all the officials' report is an important overview of the current and future situation on the supply of doctors and the Government has accepted the very practical recommendations proposed. The Government also accepts the officials' view that further detailed examination is essential. 
As the first step in the further examination of the matter, I believe that widespread reaction and comment on the officials' report from the community generally, from the medical profession and from those working in the health services would be most valuable. I am hopeful that comments can be made to me by the end of May. Because future action on the matter extends beyond the responsibilities of the Commonwealth, I will be approaching State health Ministers to seek their views and their co-operation in this examination. I believe that this important issue necessitates discussion on a wide scale because of its complexity. I also believe that future action on medical manpower supply would benefit greatly from such a course of action. 
I commend the Report of the Committee of Officials on Medical Manpower Supply to the attention of honourable members. I thank the officials for the work that they have done in bringing this report to me and for the way in which it has been prepared. I present the following paper: 
Whilst I support the general approach of the Lusher motion, as it will be historically known, I am concerned about some important aspects of the motion. Firstly, the written declaration required of doctors for the purpose of claiming benefits would result in the medical account and the declaration being submitted to health funds acting as agents for the Commonwealth medical benefit. Such a declaration would pass through the hands of doctors' staff, into the hands of the patient, into the hands of the health fund acting as an agent for the Commonwealth, and ultimately to the Department of Health. This process not only cuts across the historical confidentiality that has protected the confidential aspects of health care of a patient. I think it also endangers the privacy of the patient, herself. However, I can understand the reasons for deep concern about both the spiritual and moral consequences of turning a blind eye to the increasing number of abortions being performed in Australia. It is for that reason that I will be lending my support to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  I am deeply concerned that conservative estimates suggest that there could be between 60,000 and 70,000 abortions carried out in Australia in 1979. Indeed, there were 50,900 claims for benefits under item 6469 alone in 1977-78. To that figure must be added other procedures carried out under other item numbers and in public wards of recognised hospitals where these procedures are cost-shared between the Commonwealth and State governments. The preliminary figure for live births in Australia from 1 July 1977 to 30 June 1978 is 226,364. Therefore, if 60,000 abortions were performed in that period, and I contend that there have been a lot more, one pregnancy in five is being aborted. Apart from religious and moral principles, and whether one believes abortion is murder or not, there are quite significant economic and social implications in this development. Firstly, the number of registered births has declined every year since 1971. From 1 July 1970 to 30 June 1971 there were 271,295 live births in this country, yet from 1 July 1977 to 30 June 1978 there were 226,346 live births. The 1 97 1 figure of natural increase was 165,712 and the 1977 figure of natural increase was 117,501, representing a fall of 29. 1 per cent in that six year period. It is a disturbing fact of life that in this country, due to abortion and other forms of contraception, the natural increase in this great country of ours is falling. I am alarmed that for every four live births in Australia there is now one abortion. The rate is about 2Vi times the rate in the United Kingdom and, as somebody said yesterday in this House, we probably have in this country the highest proportion of abortions to live births of any country in the Western world. Surely that must be a matter of great concern to Australian people generally. 
Unfortunately, this House is debating a motion relating to the payment of benefits for abortion because the State governments have failed miserably to administer the laws that prevent the occurrence of abortion on demand. One of the great culprit States is my home State of New South Wales, where there are numerous abortion clinics, some of them run by private enterprise and others by non-profit-making organisations. The State governments have ignored consistently what is going on in regard to the carrying out of abortions on demand. That attitude has helped in the proliferation of abortion in this country. I firmly support the view advanced yesterday by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart).  The Commonwealth Government has taken its initiatives to stop these activities in areas under its jurisdiction. In the Australian Capital Territory, for instance, we have moved successfully to prohibit the establishment of free-standing abortion clinics. In the Australian Capital Territory, abortions can be carried out in our public hospitals under fairly strict conditions. Last year the Fraser Government gave to health insurance funds the right to delete items for abortion from their schedules. I believe that the Government has lived up to its responsibilities, and it is high time that the State governments faced up to theirs. 
In regard to those disadvantaged women who require an abortion to protect their lives, benefits would be paid if they were bulk billed by their doctors as long as they conformed to the terms of the motion. However, one would presume that disadvantaged persons who could not afford to pay the premium- I say this because there has been so much argument that the motion will harm disadvantaged women- would not be privately insured in most circumstances. Where an abortion was necessary to protect such a woman's life, she would be eligible to obtain a gynaecological procedure resulting in the termination of pregnancy in a hospital standard ward at no cost to her, the cost being shared equally between the Commonwealth and State governments. I believe that it is quite fallacious to say that a disadvantaged woman who had occasion to have such a procedure would be discriminated against under the terms of the amendment 1 am supporting. On the other hand, the wealthy woman using a clinic for the purpose of an abortion that did not conform to these criteria, a woman who is seeking an abortion primarily to satisfy her own convenience, would not be eligible to receive benefits, particularly if she were privately insured. However, if there were sound medical reasons why an abortion was necessary to protect her life, she would be entitled to receive benefits in the same way as any other woman in that circumstance. 
The increasing number of abortions since 1971 has brought its own socio-economic problems to our society. The House will recall that about seven years ago  Dr Ehrlich  came to this country to demolish the populate or perish myth, as he called it.  Dr Ehrlich  dramatically warned us in a well orchestrated and horrific manner that the world faced the prospect of over-population. He urged us to improve birth control and family planning procedures.  His  dramatic warning sold his book, spread a wave of concern throughout our community, and caused a minor ripple in developing countries, where over-population is a real problem. In a quite remarkable manner, Australia's population growth rate began to decline until today we are heading rapidly for a zero growth rate. Thus, all our population predictions for the year 2000 are to be changed. Even the shorter term projections have had to be amended. Our planners have been thrown into confusion. Our earlier manpower projections for many professions, including the medical profession, and many trades are now astray. We are facing a surplus of teachers, nurses, doctors, lawyers and so on. 
The fact that fewer babies are being born alive is also contributing to unemployment for one important reason. More married women are either entering the work force or remaining longer in the work force, thus withholding some job opportunities that would otherwise be available to those single females who seek to enter the work force on leaving school. Fewer babies are being born not only because of abortion but because of the pill and other family planning devices and methods. Family planning procedures, including abortion, undoubtedly are allowing more married women to remain in the work force. Although extra jobs have been created during the past three years, the increase in these jobs has not been sufficient to meet the increasing number of married women and school leavers seeking jobs. During the same period, abortions have prevented the live births of 150,000 to 200,000 children. Add to that the pregnancies prevented by other methods and one can appreciate the extent to which family planning is affecting the socio-economic balance of this country. In the long term, the consequences of the loss of this human potential and potential consumer demand will be reflected in fewer employment opportunities in this country unless we are prepared to engage in a massive immigration program to try to fill this great land of ours. It is true that they will not come on to the labour market, but the natural increase in population needs to be serviced with housing, schools, hospitals and consumer goods. 
I am talking about human beings, not babies that are chucked into a waste paper bin. The provision of these requirements means the provision of jobs. In spite of the emotional arguments for easy abortion laws that are advanced by some people, there is little justification for the public funding of those abortions that are performed for the convenience of the mother. It is abundantly clear that the inclusion of item 6469 on the medical benefits schedule has led to the escalation of abortion and of increasing costs to the public purse. I firmly believe that the medical profession and those who have invested in abortion clinics have lobbied sufficiently with the profession in order to have item 6469 put on the schedule to meet their demand and also to help pay the benefits for the services that they are prepared to render. I think there is sufficient evidence to prove that since item 6469 went on to the schedule there has been a substantial increase in the number of abortions performed in this country. This also has been reflected to a very large extent by the great decline in the natural increase of the Australian population. It is therefore essential that the Government impose limitations and qualifications on the payment of benefits for abortion. 
I refer to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mitchell where he states that benefits shall not be paid by the Commonwealth for termination of pregnancy unless the termination is performed to protect the mother when her life is endangered by a physical pathological condition, and so it goes on. 
This Parliament should find some difficulty in condoning the high incidence of abortions in 
Australia, and the circumstances that have encouraged its proliferation, while the community collectively bears the cost. The Parliament now has the chance to restore a sense of personal responsibility in the community by imposing strict conditions on the payment of benefits for the termination of pregnancy. I believe that the conditions which are spelt out in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mitchell provide sufficient grounds for exemption to cover the cases where compassion should be applied. The present openended arrangement has encouraged a sense of moral irresponsibility at the financial expense of the community as a whole. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is follows: 
On 1 March 1973. 
$3,96 per day. 
As the question is worded it is possible to apply only two rather than four CPI adjustments to the period in question which would render any estimate meaningless. This is on the basis that the benefit would remain at $2 a day for the first quarter of 1978-79 and that any adjustment for the final quarter would require a forecast of the CPI increase to be applied. It would not be appropriate for me to attempt to make such a forecast. 
I am therefore unable to provide an estimate of the additional costs involved within the ambit of the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This answer replaces the answer appearing in  Hansard  of 9 November 1978, page 2708. 
and (2) At the same time as direct billing for nonpensioner pathology services was abolished there were other changes made to billing for these services. 
A new schedule of pathology services was introduced and the doctor who requested the pathology tests had to be identified on the claim. 
As a consequence, of these other changes no direct comparison of processing costs before and after abolition of direct billing for non-pensioner pathology services is possible. It is estimated that, had the abolition of direct billing been the only change that occurred (i.e. had the schedule of pathology items remained unchanged and the requesting doctor not had to be identified), the number of staff required to handle the increased workload and the resultant estimated additional costs would have been as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This answer replaces the answer appearing in  Hansard  of 9 November 1978, page 2708. 
The figure for claims per contributor for payment of pathology services in 1976-77 sought by the honourable member are not available from my Department, the Health Insurance Commission or the private health funds. This is a consequence of the movement of over half of the population from the Medibank coverage to private health insurance subsequent to 30 September 1976. The number of contributors to, or persons covered by Medibank Standard, Medibank Private or the private funds is not known for the various parts of that year; The pathology services for which benefits have been paid by the Commission are not separated; and the statistics from the funds are not available. 
I have been concerned about the need for more detailed information on health costs. I will be tabling in the near future, the results of a study which throws new light on the patterns of health expenditure in recent years. I have also ensured that the new health insurance and benefits arrangements to apply from 1 November 1978 are utilised to improve the availability of relevant statistical information. 
I informed the House in my Ministerial Statement of 24 May 1978 that preliminary information indicated an appreciable decline in the quarterly costs of pathology. The gross benefits payout by Medibank for pathology decreased by 29 per cent from the June quarter 1977 to the March quarter 1978. These figures related to roughly half the population, and did not cover persons covered by the private health funds. 
With the assistance of Medibank and the private health funds, it has been possible to prepare preliminary estimates of benefits expenditure for pathology services for the sixmonthly periods, July to December 1977 and January to June 1 978 for the total population. These are shown below in conjunction with the figures for January to June 1973 and 1976 that were shown on page 4 of the March 1977 Report of the Pathology Services Working Party (tabled on 23 May 1977). 
A significant feature of these figures is that there is an absolute decrease in the benefits cost of pathology services for the period January to June 1978, compared with July to December 1977, though charges were raised for pathology services provided to privately insured persons by the following government laboratories for the first time as from: 
Capital Territory Health Commission- 1 October 1977 Commonwealth Laboratories- 1 November 1977 State Health Laboratory Services of WA- I January 1978 
It is quite clear from these figures that the 1 August 1977 pathology benefits changes have not only arrested the previous year by year absolute increase in the benefits cost of pathology services, but they have resulted in a decrease. This proves that the work of the Pathology Services Working Party has been well worth while. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Both my Department and the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH and MRC) are studying the implications of adopting a national nutrition policy having as its objective improvement of the nutritional status, and hence the health and well-being, of the population. Adequate nutrition for all Australians can only be achieved by a co-ordinated approach with all interested bodies participating. 
Adoption of a national nutrition policy as has occurred in several overseas countries, would have far-ranging implications. Because of this, a considerable amount of preliminary study is now being given to the arrangements that would be needed to implement such a policy. 
1 would hope that the studies now being undertaken by my Department and the NH and MRC would enable me to be more specific later in the year. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Federal Government does not provide finance for the Victorian Family and Community Services (FACS) program. It does however, make use of FACS regional committees to receive applications for the Family Support Services Program, and provide information to assist the Commonwealth/State Management Committee to assess applications for funding. 
The FACS program, established in April 1977, is administered by the Department of Community Welfare Services in Victoria. The aims of the program, which are to encourage the development of services which preserve and strengthen family life, promote personal growth, and help people to play an effective part in their community, are similar to the aims of the Commonwealth's Family Support Services Program. 
The Family Support Services Program has a total of $8.7m allocated for the three year period. Victoria has been allocated 24 per cent ($2. 1 m). 
Review of Passports: Interdepartmental Committee on Removal of Children (Question No. 3220) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Ad Hoc Subcommittee on Asbestos was set up by the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH &amp; MRC) on 24 August 1978. 
To enquire into and report to the Public Health Advisory Committee of the NH &amp; MRC on risks to health caused by exposure to asbestos or products containing asbestos of: persons at work members of the public exposed to asbestos from work activity members of the public exposed to asbestos from consumer products and from asbestos waste. 
The members of the Subcommittee and who they represent are: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Working Party on Model Occupational Health and Safety Legislation was established on 1 0 May 1978. 
The Public Health Advisory Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH and MRC). 
To enquire into and report to the Occupational Health Committee on draft model occupational health and safety legislation for use in Australia. 
The members of the Working Party are: 
Professor D. Ferguson, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Sydney (Chairman). 

 Dr A. Bell, Health Commission of New South Wales  (Deputy Chairman). 

 Mr T.'Reynolds, New South Wales Trades and Labour Council. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no impediment in the National Health Act to registered medical and hospital benefits organizations investing reserves in debentures, stocks and shares. 
(a) The rules of every registered organisation are required, under the National Health Act, to provide that the whole of the income arising from the conduct of business as a registered medical or hospital benefits organisation, shall be credited to the fund. This includes income from investments. 
Registered organisations' rules must also provide that no amount shall be debited to a fund other than fund benefits, management costs, approved transfers between medical and Hospital funds and, in the case of a hospital fund, payments to the Hospital Benefits Reinsurance Trust Fund. 
Where an organisation has invested in debentures and/or preference or ordinary shares, these are shown in total in tables 8 and 18 of the report on 'Operations of the Registered Medical and Hospital Benefits Organisations' as required under section 76a of the National Health Act. My Department does not maintain details of registered organisations' debenture and share investments on a company by company basis. 
-The Commonwealth Government, of course, has entered into an arrangement with the State governments to fund the community health program for this financial year on a dollar for dollar basis, which is regarded as an equitable arrangement with the States. When the community health program first came into operation it was funded by the Commonwealth Government on a 100 per cent basis. In the following year the former Government reduced the percentage of Commonwealth funding by 10 per cent. Progressively the Commonwealth Government has sought to encourage the States to make a larger contribution towards the primary health responsibilities that the States have for the health of the people within those States. In New South Wales, which I think is the State with which the honourable member is most concerned, a total allocation of $19. 6m was made under the community health program. There was a reluctance on the part of the State Government to meet the New South Wales allocation at one stage last year. This resulted in a shortfall of about $840,000 in the program. As a consequence, there was great uncertainty amongst the workers and the patients who were obtaining benefit from the community health program throughout the State. 
The Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  just prior to the election, saw some wisdom in making good the expected contribution from New South Wales. So, that State in fact did meet the Commonwealth commitment. More recently, however, there was some real concern because New South Wales appeared not to be able to meet the program that was envisaged and there was a shortfall of about $500,000.  Mr Wran  made an offer of $250,000, provided the Commonwealth Government matched his offer. Within a matter of hours the Minister for Finance and I had discussions about the matter. We decided that we would in fact meet the New South Wales offer, so that there would not be uncertainty within the community health program in New South Wales. I have had many letters of thanks from workers and patients and I know that the honourable member for Sydney is delighted that both the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government saw fit to find the additional money to keep those essential services going in the electorate of Sydney. 
-I think the House should be indebted to the honourable member for Hindmarsh for this question this week which is the week after the debate has taken place on the issue of the Government paying benefits for procedures resulting in the termination of pregnancies that are carried out in accordance with the laws of the States. It should be understood outside this Parliament- indeed, I think most people would agree- that the tenor of the debate last week and the vote itself should not be construed by the public at large as suggesting that this Parliament condones or approves of abortion on demand. I firmly believe that a greater responsibility is now imposed not just upon the Commonwealth Government, but upon State governments which have a responsibility for administering the laws relating to abortion, to spend more money and to ensure that there is a comprehensive and satisfactory family planning program in this country. 
We have a family planning program. I think it is doing a tremendous amount of good already, although there is some suggestion that insufficient funds have been made available. The objective of the program is to promote responsible parenthood, to assist couples who wish to regulate the spacing of their children, to achieve wanted births and to avoid unwanted births. The family planning program provides finance for the educational and training aspects of family planning. 
In this financial year $750,000 has been allocated to the States for the family planning associations within the States, including the Australian Catholic Social Welfare Commission for educational programs. This allocation is not just to educate patients who are to receive the benefits of the education but also to educate doctors and other people who have a very important responsibility in this area. Until the family planning program got off the ground there was an incredible deficiency of knowledge in the medical profession. In fact, the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners generally supported the family planning associations in their educational programs for its practitioners. There has been a wide acceptance that the program has already made a tremendous contribution towards proper family planning in this country. 
My appeal is to the State governments to join with the Commonwealth Government. I understand that the South Australian Government is already making funds available, but all the State governments should join with the Commonwealth Government in expanding the family planning program to avoid the problem of unwanted births and to assist those childless couples in our community who want to have families. 
It is a matter for budgetry consideration. I would be very foolish at this time to give a guarantee. But there is a very keen awareness within the Government of the need for this program. 
I am aware of the new low alcohol content beer. It is not a bad drop. I think it is a display of responsibility on the part of the brewers concerned to produce such a beer. 
-As the Minister for Transport says, it is an excellent idea. It accords completely with the Minister's philosophy and his concern for safety on the road. It accords also with the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare. Honourable members might recall that  Senator Baume  and his Committee produced a report entitled 'An Intoxicated Society'. One of the recommendations in that report was to encourage brewers in this country to produce beers of lower alcohol content. The Government has not yet dealt with that report but, without pre-empting a decision by the Government in the matter, I say that, from my own point of view and I am sure from the point of view of people generally, we can only welcome the action of the brewers and hope that brewers generally will provide the Australian community with the option of actually obtaining lower alcohol content beer. 
That shows the good commonsense of members of the Club. 
The honourable member would know that there has been considerable publicity recently on diseases amongst some Australian workers, alleged to have been caused by asbestos. The prevention and control of asbestos as a health hazard is of course a matter for State governments but the National Health and Medical Research Council has the matter under active consideration. Indeed it has produced a number of publications and they include 'The Model Asbestos Regulations'; 'Occupational Health Guide on Asbestos'; 'Membrane Filter Method for Estimating Airborne Asbestos Dust'; 'A Recommended Code of Practice for the Handling of Consignments of Asbestos Fibre in Australian Ports and Container Terminals'; and 'A Code for the Handling of Asbestos by Small Users'. 
Of course some considerable concern, has been expressed by people, as the honourable member for Petrie observed in his question, that perhaps fibro-asbestos houses could endanger health. The National Health and Medical Research Council has said that no evidence has been established that such exposure presents a definite risk to health. Indeed the National Health and Medical Research Council has given assurances, in the light of present knowledge, that the risk of non-occupational exposure to asbestos is considered extremely low. I would have to say from that advice that there is a very low health risk. However, I have asked the  Chairman  of the National Health and Medical Research Council urgently to constitute the ad hoc sub-committee on asbestos and to expedite its inquiry into the commercial use of asbestos and its possible effect on health. There is too much concern in the community at present - 
I realise that and I have asked the  Chairman  of the National Health and Medical Research Council to expedite the establishment of the Committee and its review and to report as soon as possible. I will report to the Parliament as soon as that sub-committee has reported to me. I believe there is much anxiety which may not be founded on proper and reasonable grounds. The sooner we have a proper objective assessment of the allegations that are abroad the better for all concerned. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Lump sum amounts provided by some States are higher than the equivalent Commonwealth benefits. 
The rates of compensation provided under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act are being reviewed in connection with the preparation of the Annual Budget for 1979-80. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government has adopted all the recommendations made by the Pathology Services Working Party. Legislation soon to be introduced will cover those changes which have not yet been implemented. 
Recommendation XI(i) in the March 1977 Report proposed that direct billing arrangements (in the context of the direct billing arrangements in force at that time) for pathology be made available only to eligible pensioners and their dependants, and this change was implemented from 1 August 1977. The general direct billing arrangements were varied on 1 November 1978 to allow direct billing in respect of persons considered by their doctors to be disadvantaged patients. The Government considered that it was appropriate for such patients, as well as pensioners, to be covered for all schedule services, including pathology services. Direct billing for pathology services was therefore extended to disadvantaged patients. 
I am very concerned about the report from the Public Accounts Committee of the South Australian Parliament which has now reached my Department. The South Australian Government, of course, has prime responsibility for the administration of hospitals in that State. Therefore the control of funds being allocated to those hospitals and the financial management of those funds must be primarily the responsibility of that Government. Nevertheless, the Commonwealth Government through the hospital cost sharing agreement does have a responsibility. It does contribute substantially to the hospital system and is concerned with good financial management and cost containment in the hospitals. My Department now has the report of the Committee under very close examination. Needless to say, the report will be dealt with in the very near future. 
I would expect the officials from the Department of Finance and the Department of Health who serve on the Commonwealth-State Standing Committees with the various State government officials who are responsible for looking at the budgets of the various hospitals in the States to examine critically what is going on in South Australia. I would like to say also that the arrangements which we have in force at the present time have been successful in reducing the overall increase in the rate of acceleration of hospital costs in this country. If I could be permitted to give some statistics to justify that statement, public hospital costs in constant 1974-75 prices and the percentage change over the year 1974-75 to 1 978-79 for Australia are as follows. 
In 1974-75 they increased by 12.2 per cent at constant prices, in 1975-76 by 11.2 per cent, in 1976-77 by 8.8 per cent and in 1977-78 by 6.2 per cent. We anticipate that in this financial year the rate of increase will come down to 3.4 per cent. So the Commonwealth is succeeding in slowing down the rate of increase in the administration costs of public hospitals in this country. The Government is very concerned with what has happened in South Australia, and I can assure the honourable member and South Australians generally that it will be giving very serious consideration to that report. If it is thought that further measures are necessary to contain the cost of the public hospital system in South Australia, the Government will not resile from taking that action. 
The honourable member has referred to a private hospital in Melbourne for which the Victorian Government has basic responsibility because it has responsibility for private hospitals. I assume that he was referring to a private teaching hospital. 
But it is a private hospital, it is not one of the State Government hospitals. As long as the firm concerned meets all the requirements in its application before the Foreign Investment Review Board, I can see no reason why it should not enter this field, subject to the constraints that I hope will be imposed as a result of the rationalisation discussions presently taking place between the Commonwealth and State governments. We are anxious to ensure that we limit the bed days in this country to the rate that presently exists in Victoria. Of course, the way in which we will achieve this objective is a matter which is yet to be worked out with the States in the discussions which will take place over the next 12 months or so. I will take the burden of the honourable member's question on notice and give him a thorough answer after I examine the points that he has raised. 
I thank the honourable member for Murray for that question because he has referred to one of the best schemes that has been introduced in this Parliament to assist people living in isolated areas throughout Australia with the costs incurred in seeking specialist medical attention and in paying for accommodation in the process. However, there are some anomalies in the scheme which arise largely from our determination on the one hand, to try to stop abuse and, at the same time to be as generous as possible to those people in genuine need of attention. However, the honourable member for Barker has brought to my attention one anomaly relating particularly to some of his constituents on one of the off-shore islands in his constituency. 
-On Kangaroo Island. Quite clearly, that anomaly must be overcome. Honourable members on both sides of the House have identified several anomalies in the scheme. So I have set up a working party in my Department to prepare a submission for my consideration. That has been done. That submission covers off-shore islanders; the need for prior approval, which is presently part of the scheme and which is causing a great deal of difficulty as far as the medical practitioners are concerned; the definition of 'isolated areas', which has been causing some difficulty; and, the level of patient contribution for the travel involved, which also is an area which needs further consideration. As soon as I have considered the report which is presently in my hands, I intend to bring the issues and the problems before the Government for further consideration. But the isolated patients and travel accommodation assistance scheme is an excellent scheme. Already it has helped a great number of people in isolated areas in Australia. It has been welcomed generally throughout Australia and particularly in isolated areas. 
I can justify my answer to the question simply by saying that in the Australian Capital Territory we have two major teaching hospitals. South Australia has a number of teaching hospitals, but that State also has a great number of country hospitals with very low bed day charges. If South Australia did not have a lower average cost than the Australian Capital Territory the South Australian Labor Government should go right out of office. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Joint Study of Emergency Relief entitled 'Emergency Relief- Study of Agencies and Clients', together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  concerning the report. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have your indulgence to make a correction? 
Yes. 
In reply to a question from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  I used the term 'teaching hospitals' in relation to the two hospitals in Canberra. I used the term incorrectly but inadvertently. The Canberra hospitals are large hospitals with complex medical and surgical units that are available to the service of the community generally. The point that I was trying to make for the benefit of the honourable member was that the average bedday costs in those large hospitals would necessarily be higher than the average bed-day costs of the multiplicity of hospitals in South Australia, which includes cheap, low cost country hospitals. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is true that pensioners who contributed at the family scale to the 'Extracover' Table operated by the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited prior to I November 1978 are required to pay $5.63 per month more under Table 'PZ' operated since 1 November 1978. 
However, this increase was connected in no way with the changes to the health insurance arrangements brought about by the Government, effective from 1 November 1 978. 
As I explained in the answer to question No. 2805 the basic reason for the increase in contribution rates was to correct the adverse operating experience recorded by the organisation on the previous contribution/benefit structure under 'Extracover'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information requested is not available from Commonwealth Government sources. My Department approached the Victorian Health Commission with a request that they provide the relevant data. The Health Commission has replied as follows: 
In response to the request for information regarding waiting time for patients with operable conditions, a survey has been undertaken of current lists. However, due to the nature of the system used, a survey as at each of the dates mentioned, is not possible. It should be pointed out that patients' admission to public hospitals for any reason (including "operable conditions"), depends solely on the medical need of the patient, and is not affected in any way by the patient's financial state or his request to be a "hospital" or a "private" patient. 
There is no waiting time for any patient (including those with "operable conditions") using the criteria of medical need as a yardstick- i.e. all patients who require admission within a limited period of time, based on medical criteria, are admitted within that time. 
In most disciplines the hospitals keep a list of patients whose medical condition is not such as to warrant immediate admission or whose admission is planned for medical reasons for some months ahead. 
At the Royal Melbourne Hospital, data for these patients is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The First Report 'Analysis of Medical Interview Data' of the Survey of Health Employees in the Research Establishment of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights, Sydney, states (Summary, paragraph 9) that . . . 'the medical interview part of the survey reported here does not bring to light acute disorders the effect of which are no longer apparent at interview, nor does it identify people who leave the service due to ill health or who die prematurely. The other types of analysis needed for these cases are the subject of the next report. ' 
It is intended in subsequent reports to take account of those who died or left employment because of illness, including cancer, and to give detailed consideration to ways and means of gathering relevant information concerning Commission workers who leave employment for other than medical reasons. 
I would investigate any such reports. If the honourable member for Prospect has any information that could be of value, I would be very pleased to have it. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following response to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) The matters canvassed in these parts of the question do not come within the responsibility of the Minister for Social Security. 
Ansett Airlines were designated as official carriers for the IYC Conference following an assessment of written proposals put forward by both Trans Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines. 
Yes, I have seen the poster. In fact, I am so impressed with it that I happen to carry one around with me. For the benefit of honourable members opposite and the benefit of all people, perhaps I might read it to the House if that is in order,  Mr Speaker. 
My Department has examined the proposal. As I understand it, there are problems with the proposal from a health point of view. I hope to see a deputation about the proposal, I think today. I am very anxious to hear the case that members of the deputation wish to put to me personally. I will certainly give them a very sympathetic hearing, but I will be guided largely by the health aspects of the proposal, because I believe that is necessary in the best interests of the people concerned. However, I certainly will be guided also by their wishes in the matter. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following grants have been made in the Electorate of Bowman under aged persons accommodation programs: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The twenty-five most frequently used Medical Benefits Schedule items (in descending order) are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Cost-sharing of State expansion programs is normally discussed by Commonwealth and State officers at meetings of State Standing Committees held twice a year. I understand that Tasmania has proposed that the Commonwealth cost-share the operating costs of the new Queen Alexandra Women's Hospital in Hobart, which will operate from 1 January 1980. Details of the services to be available at the new hospital have not yet been provided but it may be that this is the neo-natal facility to which the honourable member refers. The proposal to share the operating costs of the hospital was examined in detail at the most recent meeting of the State Standing Committee. I expect that a recommendation as to cost-sharing will be placed before me shortly. 
The question of Commonwealth funding sources for the Douglas Parker Rehabilitation Centre is currently the subject of correspondence between myself and the Tasmanian Health Minister, and of examination by the respective Commonwealth and State health authorities. 
Discussions on the proposal to cost-share this new unit are continuing and I expect that the arrangements will be considered shortly by the Minister Tor Social Security and myself 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 would agree that attempts to control public hospital costs through restriction and classification of public hospital beds could to an extent be nullified if compensating increases in private hospital beds and bed utilisation take place. 
I have no legislative authority to prevent the Hospital Corporation of America entering the private hospital industry. 
The State Governments have the power to control public hospital bed expansion as they have a responsibility in financing individual recognised (public) hospitals. The Commonwealth through its cost sharing arrangements does not exercise an influence in hospital bed expansion. 
With regard to private hospitals, the primary responsibility for the licensing or registering of premises as private hospitals rests with the State Government. All States administer legislation covering the registration or licensing of premises as private hospitals (as directed to standards) but only two States are known to have legislation to provide for controls over the growth of the private hospital industry. 
The Commonwealth Government's role in this area is the approval of premises as private hospitals, under the Health Insurance Act, for payment of the $ 1 6 a day bed payment. 
Discussions are being held between Commonwealth and State/Territory health officials on the general topics of hospital productivity, efficiency and cost-containment. The question of co-ordination between public and private hospital sectors is included in these discussions. At the completion of officer discussions I anticipate that these matters will be further discussed by Commonwealth, State and Territory Health Ministers. 
Travel Organisations: Visits by Commonwealth Police  (Question No.  31 18) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) As at 15 March 1979, the approved fees and names and locations of those nursing homes where the cheapest ward accommodation exceeds the minimum patient contribution plus the basic nursing home benefits are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Preterm Clinic is not a separate organisation but a clinic operated by the Preterm Foundation. The Preterm Foundation is a non-profit organisation. The Foundation was incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory as a company limited by Guarantee on 28 May 1974. Since the Foundation's establishment, financial statements have been published at 3 1 December 1974, and at 30 June in the years 1975-78. 
The disposal of any operating surplus is a matter for decision by the Preterm Foundation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government does not monitor local and regional variations in the incidence of cancer, nor in the incidence of congenital abnormalities and genetic disorders not detected at binh. 
However, my Department has recently invited applications for the establishment of a National Perinatal Statistics Unit. One of the functions of the Unit when established will be to monitor statistics relating to perinatal health, perinatal morbidity, including malformations and perinatal mortality. There will then be monitoring of congenital abnormalities and genetic disorders that have been detected at binh. 
Records of the incidence of cancer are kept by cancer registries in each State. Statistics of the incidence of congenital and genetic disorders detected at binh are collected in Western Australia by the Depanment of Public Health, and in Tasmania by the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. However, the Government is encouraging their extensions to the remainder of the country. Statistics of cause of death, showing the incidence of fatal cases of the conditions mentioned, are available through the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Following its February 1979 meeting, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee produced a statement giving details of its Charter, History, Aims and Guidelines, in a form that can be readily understood. However, no basic changes have been made to the guidelines. These guidelines, which have been developed by the Committee to assist it in its deliberations, are not a rigid set of rules. 
There is no significant change in the statement regarding prices of pharmaceutical benefits. The relevant statement reads 'It is the Committee's policy to base its deliberations primarily on medical considerations. When assessing similar drugs of comparable efficacy and toxicity, in view of the need to maximise value to the community, the Committee may take cognizance of price, but if so merely as a secondary consideration.'. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Maternity Allowance Act 1912 was assented to on 10 October 1912. 
The Bill providing for abolition was assented to on 26 October 1978 for births occurring on or after 1 November 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An article in the November 1978 issue  of Australian G.P.  entitled The G.P.S.A.  Major Medical  Plan by  Dr Peter  Arnold has been drawn to my attention. The G.P.S.A. Plan is operated by the Australian Casualty Company. 
I note that the article clearly points out that 'Members joining the plan will, of course, be eligible for the "40 per cent- $20" rebate on "recommended" medical fees by merely being registered with the fund. Members may choose to be registered with the fund they currently belong to, or may, through their GPSA Plan, be registered with a fund nominated by the GPSA '. This view is different from that expressed in the question. The honourable member will be aware that all Australian residents are eligible for the 40 per cent- $20 Commonwealth Medical Benefits on registration with a private health insurance organization which has a medical benefits fund registered under the National Health Act. The Australian Casualty Company is not registered under the Act. 
In the light of ( 1 ) above I do not intend to obtain a list of the Society's members. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The names of the members of the governing boards of the private health funds in the six States are: 
New South Wales 
AMA (NSW) Health Fund Limited- G. K. Williams, P. D. Pullen, C. S. H. Reed, P. S. Cocks, E. J. Lines, G. Douglas, R. J. M. Dunlop, I. S. Collins. 
Cessnock District Hospital Contribution Fund-N. Mitchel, R. Slack, J. Faulds, L. O'Neil, K. Allen, F. Hallam, A. Walters, E. Fitzgibbon. 
The Commercial Banking Company Health Society-J. R. Baker, F. C. Lewis, E. R. Winslow, R.A.Guthrie, D.M. Cowper, G. J. Watkins, K.T.J. O'Connor. 
Commonwealth Bank Health Society- G. Barker, J. Flynn, L. Edwards, W. Lewis, M. Reidy, P. Frost, J. Cookson. 
The Grand United Order of Oddfellows, Friendly Society of New South Wales-J. H. Lazarus, B. L. Wilson, N. Davidson, H. R. Hamblen, W. Dempster, H. E. Cook, J. W. Pennington, J. J. Olsen, J. L. Hawkins, F. N. Greentree, N. Peacock, R. J. Barratt 
Health Insurance Commission (Medibank Private)-R. H. Kronborg, R. G. Williams, C. R. Wilcox, W. A. Butterss, F. W. Millar, K. N. Willis, R. L. Gradwell. 
Hibernian Australasian Catholic Benefit Society of New South Wales- J. O 'Keeffe, W. Davoren, Miss I. Gapps, 
McGrane, V. Breen, W.Zerest, D.Taylor, W. Boland, E. Waring, J. Pyke, K. O 'Regan. 
The Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia- F. Allen, R. Hoffmans, E. Brown, R. Marshal, A. Duckworth, J.Gibson, J. Westephalen, B.Woods, P. Oakman, F. Blackwood, R. Drew, W. Ruscoe, C.Warren, K. Gain, F. McDonough, R. Ramkine, E. Upton, K. Bagley, B. Catchlove, G. Davies, R. Gould, B. Halpin, I. McIntyre, D. Page, R. Reed. 
Independent Order of Odd Fellows of the State of New South Wales-J. Kimble, P. Dominish, E. Ellis, E. Watson, J. Dick, A. Carter, K. Greenwood, S. Hyett, D. Duff, W. Pain. 
New South Wales District, No. 85, Independent Order of Rechabites, Salford Unity, Friendly Society- E. R. Horner, P. Mac. L. Crawford, A.T.Sinclair, W. J. Kalaitzis, E. D. Peachey, R. C. Hayward, P.A.Sheldon, A. J. Thompson, E. Evendon, C. P. Lewis. 
The Kurri Kurri Maitland Hospital Contribution Fund- E. Benson, D. Pryor, G. Winter, R. Brown, A. Mackintosh, U. Butler. 
The Lysaght Hospital and Medical Club- N. Burke, R. Finlay, J. Pederson, D. Pearce,  Mrs M.  Richardson, C. Ainsworth, W. Kiley, C. Davy, T. Hudson. 
Government Employees Medical and Hospital Club-R. Bury, K. Knight, J. Burns, J. McAllan, T. Crotty, W. Mansfield, J. Drylie, B. Chandler, B.Evans, M.Shiels, D. Brandon, D. Hains, J. Smellie, J. Merchant, P. Henry. 
The Manchester Unity Independent Order of Oddfellows, Friendly Society, in New South Wales- J. Lewis, M. Casey, C. Johnson, R. Small, T. Stephens. D. Green, R. Hanington, W. Gennings, J. Ford, R. Holloway, R. Sawtell, A. Cairns. 
Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited- J. L. Amies, D. A. Brown, W.H.Collins, J. W. C. Wyett, D. Braham, R. S. Cohen, H. H. Gibson, A. M. Johnson, J. H. McDowell, A. H. Pollard, W. F. Simmons, A. W. 0. Young, J.F. Lee, H. Stuart-Patterson, N. L. Sherwood, A. K. Lavis, J. P. McPhee, D. P. Rowe, D. J. Walters, A. H. Braby, W. B. Northam, R. S. Day, G. L. Howe,J. R. Nelson. 
N.I.B. Health FundsLimited-J. F. Moore, R. G. Hooker, F. Smith, W. J. Menzies, R. C. Millington, J. Graham, E. Johnston. 
New South Wales Teachers' Federation Health Society- C. Rennie, J. George, B. Manefield, A. L. Vance, D. Haywood, L. Gapps, J. Hennessy, E. Sheehan, B. Watterson, M. Taylor, L. Wood. 
NSW Railway and Transport Employees' Hospital Fund-A.H.Watson, M. E. Hazleton, C.J.Arnold, D. F. Munro, V. J. Wulf, R. A. Ranger, L.Doyle, L. W. Dyer, R. H. Wright, F. Evans. 
The Phoenix Welfare Association Limited- R. A. Bender, W. T. Schacht, R. Stobbs, R. Pettigrew, J. Brown, G. G. Jago, W. Terry, R. F. Griffiths, R. Dudley. 
Protestant Alliance Friendly Society of Australasia Grand Council of New South Wales-N. J. C. Edwards, A. H. King, G. Linfoot, C.H.Kingston, W.G. Naylor, D.C. Loneon, K. Anis-Brown, G. C. Rosevear, P. W. Perry. 
Reserve Bank Health Society- R. White, J. Cooling, K. Broadhead, A. O'Connell, N. Webb, Miss J. F. Butlin. 
The Store Hospital and Medical Fund- L. P. Haddow, I. Packer, D. Walker, S. R. Dalton, W. W. L. Carson, F. G. D'Aran, P. H. Mealey. 
The 'Sydney Morning Herald' Hospital Fund-R. Holland, F. E. Jubb, A.Spillier, N. Schofield, V. W. J. Eggleton, W.R.Green, N. Isemonger, J. S. Newling, H. B. Mew. 
The United Ancient Order of Druids', Registered Friendly Society, Grand Lodge of New South Wales- E. Russell, L. Parkes, J. Hegger, L. Briggs, J. Holburn, L. Jones, H.Troy, J.Cook, R. Allerton, L.Carter, L.Lyons, G. Allerton, K. Lymn, V. M. Moore. 
Western District Medical Benefits Fund- J. Savage, V. Moffitt, R. McCann, G. Clencorse, T. Kelly, R. Buck, L. Sedger, D. Roberts, H. Kerney, B. Whichello. 
The Wollongong Hospital and Medical Benefits Contribution Fund- K. Davis, I. Brown, J. Johnston, G. Barnett, J. Dyson-Firth, J. McKenzie, G. Bernays, R. Bath, P. Thomas. 
Queensland 
Commonwealth Public Service (Qld) Credit Union Health Benefits Society-L. F. Talty, A. W. Hill, M. D. Fagg, A. N. Durham, G. Fowler, E. A. Menadue, T. J. Corcoran, R. D. Price, N. K. Beikoff. 
The Grand United Order of Oddfellows Friendly Society-G. R. Ollier, J. E. Gibbs, I. P. S. McFarlane, R. F. Simonds, C. J. Grice, W. C. Milne, W. C. M. Appleby, D. R. Simonds. 
Health Insurance Commission (Medibank Private )-R. H. Kronborg, R. G. Williams, C. R. Wilcox, W. A. Butterss, F. W. Millar, K. N. Willis, R. L. Gradwell. 
The Queensland District, No. 87, Independent Order of Rechabites, Friendly Society- J. A. Taylor, W. J. Tweedale, S. B. Bretherton, C. Taylor, L. J. Doherty, D. R. Bell, D. G. Chapman, J. A. Pitts, T. R. Williams, H. H. Harbottle, W. G. Cross, C. R. Baker. 
Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited- J. L. Amies, J.F.Lee, D.A.Brown, H.Stuart-Patterson, W.H.Collins, N. L. Sherwood, J. W. C. Wyett, A. K. Lavis, D. Braham, J. P. McPhee, R.S.Cohen, W.F.Simmons, D. P. Rowe, H. H.Gibson, D.J.Walters, A. M.Johnson, A. H. Braby, J. H. McDowell, W. B. Northam, A. H. Pollard, R. S. Day, G. L. Howe, A. W. O. Young, J. R. Nelson. 
M.I.M. Employees Health Society- S. Coates, G. D. Gallaher, T. Eakin, C. G. Jury, C.Walsh, E. Wilkinson, P. Beard, W. Eather, R. Heritage. 
Protestant Alliance Friendly Society of Australasia, in Queensland (The Grand Council)- E. K. Humble, J. R. Parry, T. R. Wass, C. J. Richardson, B. N. Kidd, L. A. May, A. W. Browne, C. R. Roebuck, D. C. Drake. 
Professional and Technical Officers Health Society-T. Torenbeck, B.D.Collins, W.J.Porter, H. J.Green, W. H. J. Yarrow, B. J. Nutter, D. Martindale, J.  K.  Lynch. 
Queensland Teachers' Union Health Society- G. C. Lean, R. E. Jones, R. W. Cable, J. Arnold, V.Lucas, K. Brasch, N. J. Ross, B. Stephenson, A. Bevis, V. Cottell, M. Izatt. 
South Australia 
The Advertiser Provident Society- G. J. Laver, R. W. McMahon, M. L. Mules, L.G. Blunt, O. L. Bosley, R. L. Beard, C. W. Laughton, P.D.Wiltshire, T.N. Hay, C. C. Redden, R. V. Jervis, R. F. Pepper. 
Health Insurance Commission (Medibank Private)-R. H. Kronborg, R. G. Williams, C. R. Wilcox, W. A. Butterss, F. W. Millar, K. N. Willis, R. L. Gradwell. 
The South Australian District, No. 8 1 , Independent Order of Rechabites Friendly Society- A. J. Davis, J. Atherton, F. Iverson, I. L. Marchant, Sister E. M. McNeill, P. C. Bodin, A. H. Jenkinson. 
The Albert District No. 83, Independent Order of Rechabites, Salford Unity-E. W. Berry, R.L.Johnson, F. W. C. Penhall, J.Webster,  Mrs M.  A. Turner, C. W. J. Vowles, K. W. Pearson,  Mrs W.  G. Crompton. 
Mutual Health Association Limited- I. McLachlan, P. B. Angas-Parsons, A. Brookman, B. S. Hanson,  Dr G.C.Hall,  A.B.Thompson, A. G. McGregor, N. C. Reid, B. L. Cornish. 
National Health Services Association of South Australia- W. K. Moon, D. Fisher, N. R. Caust, J. Buttler, P. Lord, C. B. Harris, L. T. Martin, A. Tabor, E. Lord, P. Hemming, W. A. Parkinson, B. Baulderstone, L. Torode, 
Curtis, B. Samels. 
SA Police Department Employees' Hospital Fund-H. D. Symons, J. Stillwell, G. C. MacKinnon, T. Jennings, M. L. Arthur, F. F. Richardson, W. B. Garrett, P. Carroll, F. Leditschke, F. Bowering, R. L. Walters, M. L. Wagner. 
SA Public Service Association Health Benefits Fund-T. Rowland, B. Millar, G. Hammond, R. W. Glenn, P. Grenville. 
Tasmania 
Associated Pulp and Paper Makers' Council Medical Benefits Fund /Associated Pulp and Paper Makers' Council Hospital Benefits Fund- J. T. O'Hern, A. Dykstra, L. Flemming, R. Emin, K. T. Dawkins, E. H. Newman, D.A.French, L. Bloom, B.Stanton, J. Metcalf, 
L. Howart, R. Summers, A. Keygan, B. Douglas, L. T. Nutting, A. C. Haberle, G. Birt, V. W. Breaden, 
R. Fraser, D. I. Bissett, L. Costello, C. G. Mathew, 
Zender, J. D. Gleeson. 
Coats Patons Employees' Mutual Benefit Society and Hospital and Medical Benefit Association- G. Lohrey, R. Bartel, A. Woolston, W. Williams, K. Dixon, Z. Anderson, L. Knowles, J. Wallace, P. Jetson, G. Brumby, 
Armstrong. 
Druids Friendly Society of Tasmania- R. J. Hosie, 
V. Ockerby, R.B.Ralph, J. Blyth, P. T. C. Hutchings, S. L. Dennis, B. T. Speed. 
Health Insurance Commission (Medibank Private )-R. H. Kronborg, R.G.Williams, C. R. Wilcox, W. A. Butterss, F. W. Millar, K. N. Willis, R. L. Gradwell. 
Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited- J. L. Amies, 
A. Brown, W.H.Collins, J. W. C. Wyett, D. Braham, R. S. Cohen, H. H. Gibson, A. M. Johnson, J. H. McDowell, A. H. Pollard, W. F. Simmons, A. W. O. Young, J. F. Lee, 
Stuart-Patterson, N. L. Sherwood, A. K. Lavis, J. P. McPhee, D. P. Rowe, D. J. Walters, A. H. Braby, W. B. Northam, R. S. Day, G. L. Howe, J. R. Nelson. 
Queenstown Medical Union Ancillary Benefits Fund/Queenstown Medical Union Hospital Benefits Fund-D. L. Bugg, D. Sturgess, P. Reynolds, M. B. Giles, 
W. D'Alton, M. K. McGuinness, G.Hartley, 
N. Challen, L. R. Hayes. 
Rosebery Hospital and Medical Benefits Society- G. Freeman, G.B. Kremmer, J.M.Fisher, J. G. Druett, B. Randall, G. L. Gillies, K. C. McDonald, J. E. McMeekin, N. M. Webb. 
St Luke's Medical and Hospital Benefits Association-A. T. Sorrell, R. E. Ward, A. F. Matson, R.S.Newman, T. E. Brain, W. E. Judd, D.Jones, D. A. Green, G. A. Calver, D. Henshaw, L. N. Gollan. 
Victoria 
The Ancient Order of Foresters in Victoria Friendly Society- R. J. Morrison, A.M. Sievers, L. Hickey, J.A.Richardson, M. G. Plumridge, B.W.Lincoln, L. V. Wallis, G. M. Bambery. 
Army Health Benefits Society- J. A. Hooper, J. T. Dunn, D. Vennder, R. W. Morris, A. Pearce, C. B. Hazen, 
Spencer, D. A. Drabsch, D. C. Senwick, J. Nolan, P. Naughton. 
Australian Natives' Association- I. V. Meagher, 
E. Capuano, H. J. Peagram, B. Armstrong, E. W. Pitts, 
J.Brisbane, W. A. Cuddihy, J. A. S. Geddes, 
J. Kelleher, H. T. Shannon, J. E. Menadue, R. A. Storey, V.G.Wright, E. S. A. Wickham, L. J. Yelland, H. G. Hughes, R. J. Joseph, J. A. Munro, W. L. Crofts. 
Cheetham Hospital Benefits Fund- R. J. Vague, P. C. Maxsted, R. B. Howard, I. H. Chappell, K. R. Moore. 
Geelong Medical and Hospital Benefits Association Limited-B. F. Williams, A. C. Marshall, G. E. Blood, A.S.Hand, F. D. Kerley, M. Schimana, J.R.Stewart, 
Taylor, B. Wemyss, B. F. Loughman, J. Lee, W. R. Lang. 
Grand United Hospital Benefit Society (Incorporating The Grand United Order of Oddfellows) in Victoria Friendly Society-E. W. T. Jewell, F.C.Cross, 
B. Robertson, H. Levi, R. H. Leach, N. A. Kroezen, M. A. Robertson, R. J. Taylor, F. Hollingsworth. 
Health Insurance Commission (Medibank Private)-R. H. Kronborg, R. G. Williams, C. R. Wilcox, W. A. Butterss, F. W. Millar, K. N. Willis, L. R. Gradwell. 
The Hibernian Australasian Catholic Benefit Society, Victoria District No. I - B. M. Meere, T. D. Connane, J. J. Ryan, J. J. Brown, B. Connelly, M. J. Keeghan. 
The Hospital Benefits Association Ltd- E. G. Hale, W.J. Skewes, E. W.. Grace, A. J. Moss, H.M.Mitchell, 
N.Smith, J. D. Lush, J. Best, B.Ryan, R. E. Skilbeck, J. W. O 'Hanlon. 
Independent Order of Odd Fellows of Victoria-M. J. Meek, D.E.Jury, J. Meneilly, A. C. Smith, R. Hallett, T. H. Marshall, J. A. Harper. 
The Irish National Foresters' Benefit Society- F. M. Reardon, J. J. Moloney, K. M. Toohey, J. J. Thompson, A. Collins, M. Watts, H. Brown, E. Holland, P. Sampson, J. Lawrence, M. Scott. 
The Victorian District Independent Order of Rechabites Friendly Society-R. Warwick, E. W. Clarke, F. T. Jones, 
D.Williams, V. C. Harkness, G.R.Wallace, W. A. R. Dyer, P. L. Peacock, H. C. Pratt, H. Kearton. 
Latrobe Valley Hospitals and Health Services Association- W. J. White, C. M. Davies, J. McDonald, J. C. Bush, A. L. Hare, G. Farrington, L. Read, S. Bertrand, L. Van Lambaart. 
The Manchester Unity Independent Order of Odd Fellows in Victoria- U. C. Armstrong, R. Atkins, F. A. Beard, M.W.Campbell, F. G. Dyring, G. V. Farrell, 
A.Goodwin, W.E.Llewellyn, B.E.Matthews, 
J. Narik, L. K. Rolph, D. J. Stonehouse, A. J. Scott, E. L. Fuller. 
The Mildura District Hospital and Medical Fund-R. N. Fleming, P. E. Byrne, E. Brown, G. Elmitt, G. Talbot, K. Smith. 
Naval Health Benefits Society-R. J. Brown, K. O'Brien, A. B. Calder, M. Grogan, J. H. Speed. 
The Order of the Sons of Temperance National Division Friendly Society- R. Calderwood, R.W.Cameron, D. Cordingly, R. Griffett, N. L. Hallam, A. G. Marsh, K.Moore, W. T. Short, W.J. Short, C. G. Storen, S.V.Swain, F. Tassell, J. Temple, D.Williams, W. R. Setterfield. 
The Protestant Alliance Friendly Society of Australasia Grand Council of Victoria-C. R. Bennett, K. D. McColl, R. H. Marr, S. D. Wensor, W. C. Weaver, R. R. Chadband, R. H. Brehaut, K. S. Seddon, F. W. Sayer, F. Bibby. 
United Ancient Order of Druids- J. D. Mclnerney, R. N. Prior, P. C. Bigmore, H. Barnett, C. Britt, R. A. Collis, H. Geoffrey, B. E. Jager, L.S.Valentine, C.H.Butler, I. Scharder, G. J. Galloway. 
The Yallourn Medical and Hospital SocietyD. Hankinson, R.King, D.Lloyd, G.E. Seear, R. Miles, K. Davy, R. Ellis, B. Hansford, T. F. Pye. ( 0 Western Australia 
The Hospital Benefit Fund of Western Australia Incorporated- A. K. Atkins, L. H. Brown, J. D. Clarkson, D. M. Clement, J. B. Craig, V. F. Driscoll, S. H. S. Gill, M. A. Jahn, C. A. Knuckey, R. J. Marshall, H. R. Smith. 
Friendly Societies Health Services- J. Wall, C. Jones, N. Reed, B. Tucker, H. Lawson, L. Philippson, J. Scott, W. Fuller, W. Bleakley, R. West, E. Hall. 
Health Insurance Commission (Medibank Private )-R. H. Kronborg, R. G. Williams, C. R. Wilcox, W. A. Butterss, F. W. Millar, K. N. Willis, R. L. Gradwell. 
Health Insurance Fund of WA- S. D. Bishop, F. C. Collins, E. A. Sinclair, F. R. W. Lindsey, B. Hunt, M. Kennedy, R. K. Filsell. 
Goldfields Medical Fund (Incorporated)- K. R. Turner, F. R. Jarvis, R. R. Basset, C. P. Brown. A. B. Eaton. H. R. Close, F. P. Michell, G.J.Crisp, D. Holly, C. E. Morris, H. J. O'Brien, L. J. Calneggia, A. J. Barwick, J. Forrest, W. Woods. M. Muir. 
N.B. The above list does not include those organizations which are in the course of winding-up their operations under the provisions of the National Health Act. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Age pensioners per 1,000 persons of age pension age at the end of each financial year, 1970 to 1 978- 30 June 1970-603 30 June 1971-598 30 June 1972-600 30 June 1973-655 . 30 June 1974-702 30 June 1975-733 30 June 1976-754 30 June 1977-765 30 June 1978-782. 
Note: The figures for 1971 to 1977 are based on population figures revised after the 1976 census. The figure for 1978 is based on population projections prepared by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
Between 1975 and 1977, some residentially qualified invalid pensioners were not transferred to age pension when reaching age pension age. The rates for these years are, therefore, somewhat under-estimated. 
) Estimated number of age pensioners per 1 ,000 persons of age pension age- June 1979: 786. 
The following table shows the amounts of income which have precluded payment of any age pension to single persons or married couples since July 1 969- 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Department of Social Security, in conjunction with the Australian Telecommunications Commission is reviewing the eligibility of fringe benefit pensioners who receive the Telephone Rental Concession. It is a national review and certain pensioners in the Geelong area have been included in the survey. 
Questionnaires were issued to approximately half a million pensioners throughout Australia. 
, (4) and (5) It is the responsibility of the Department of Social Security to ensure that benefits paid under the Social Services Act and concessions granted by the Commonwealth are received only by those persons who are legally entitled to receive them. Where any doubt arises concerning eligibility to such benefits or concessions, it is normal practice to review the situation. The last two annual reports of the Auditor-General have mentioned the need to improve the procedures designed to check eligibility for the Telephone Rental Concessions. 
A national review of the Telephone Rental Concession has not been previously conducted. However, normal practice requires that pensioners' eligibility for the concession is checked when circumstances affecting eligibility for the concession alter. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Prior to 9 February, 1977, cash benefits were available to the aged in New Zealand in the form of either: age benefit- an income-tested, non-taxable cash payment to men and women aged 60 years of age and over (55 years for women in certain circumstances) subject to residence qualifications (generally ten years); or superannuation benefit- a cash payment made free of any income or assets test but subject to income tax, to men and women aged 65 years and over, subject to residence qualifications (generally twenty years). 
The rates of benefit payable under the two schemes were generally indentical but certain provisions, such as for dependents, differed. Persons qualified by age and residence to receive either benefit could select the benefit which was most generous in their particular circumstances. 
From 9 February, 1977, age and superannuation benefits were replaced by national superannuation, a taxable cash payment generally payable free of any income or assets test to men and women aged 60 years or more. A residence qualification ( usually ten years ) applies. (2)1 have no information that would enable me to answer this pan of the honourable member's question. Certain data on numbers of recipients of superannuation and age benefits and national superannuation are available but these would not necessarily be good indicators of how the change to national superannuation has affected workforce participation by the aged. In particular, since national superannuation is non income-tested whereas the former age pension was, some people who have reached the age of 60 but are under 65 might now qualify for national superannuation while continuing in the workforce whereas the income test might previously have disqualified them for age benefit. The following statistics may, however, be of interest: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) The standard fee in respect of approved nursing homes (referred to by the honourable member as the basic fee), which comprises the ordinary care benefit and the minimum statutory patient contribution, has risen in each State since the introduction of fee control in 1 973 by: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The details requested are not available for all social security pensions and benefits. However, the number of divorcees in receipt of Class A or Class B widows pension at the end of December 1 978 was 36,458. 
Expenditure on widow pensioners by category of pensioner, is not available. However, the annual liability for divorcees in receipt of Class A or Class B widows pension was estimated to be of the order of $!20m at the end of December 1978. 
The number of claims lodged by divorcees for Class A or Class B widows pension during 1978 was estimated at 12,200. In many cases the grant of pension or benefit is not contingent on divorce. For example, separated wives with children may qualify for a Class A widows pension or a supporting parents benefit six months after the event giving rise to eligibility i.e. the date of separation. A divorce may occur later without altering her status as a 'widow' or supporting parent for purposes of the Social Services Act. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The recommendations of the consultant were substantially incorporated in the recommendations of the Myers Inquiry and these recommendations were in turn reviewed both departmentally and by an inter-departmental review team. The current departmental procedures are therefore attributable in part to all of these influences and in part to other reforms initiated departmentally. Accordingly, it is not practicable to identify changes as being exclusively attributable to the consultant's recommendations alone. The following changes that have been effected since the consultant's report are considered to involve substantial implementation of recommendations made by him- the payment of unemployment benefit in arrears; the introduction of a positive stimulus system of payment under which the claimant must personally justify his entitlement to each fortnightly payment of unemployment benefit; the conduct of periodicial reviews of entitlement through field officers and departmental procedures. greater emphasis on special procedures to identify claimants and to detect abuse; personal interviews of new claimants of unemployment benefit; additional staff and counter facilities in response to increases in workload; upgrading of managerial resources and the granting of wider discretionary powers to local managers; advance payment of the initial benefit cheque in cases of hardship to avoid recourse to welfare agencies; and greater readiness to issue counter cheques to persons in need. 
Financial Assistance for Projects in Tasmania (Question No. 3666) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
to (5) Instances of theft and fraudulent negotiation (i.e. negotiation without the authority of the payee) of cheques come to light in the course of investigations which follow a report from a payee that a cheque was not received or was lost or stolen subsequent to receipt. 
Departmental action in cases where cheques are not received by the due date includes the issue of a replacement cheque to the payee. (In cases where the payee has received and then lost the cheque, the issue of a replacement is conditional on the stop payment notice lodged at the bank on which the original was drawn being effective). 
Statistics are kept of numbers only of replacement cheques issued and details for the years 1975-76 to 1977-78 are as follows: 1975-76-88,454; 1976-77-98,3 16; 1977-78-89,718. 
The majority of cheques which are replaced are in fact eventually either received by the payee and/or returned to the Department. 
Clients are advised to return either the original or the replacement cheque to the Department if both cheques are received by them and in the event that both cheques are negotiated the resulting overpayment is recovered, in most cases, by the limitation of continuing entitlement. 
The value of Social Security cheques which are returned to the Department and cheques which remain lost and therefore become stale is repaid to the Commonwealth Public Account. 
Of the cheques issued by this Department very few are found to have been fraudulently negotiated. For the years 1975- 76 to 1977-78 the total number of cheques reported as fraudulently negotiated and the ratio of this number to total cheques issued is as follows: 1975-76-8,391, 1:7378; 
1976- 77-12,539, 1:4914; 1977-78-12,084, 1:5356. 
As cheques drawn by this Department are crossed not negotiable- within the meaning of Section 87 of the Bills of Exchange Act- persons who give value to a person with no title to the cheque become liable to the Commonwealth for its value. 
In this regard the following amounts were recovered from bankers and traders in the years in question: 1975-76-$4 14,033; l976-77-$745,960; 
1977- 78- $918,718. 
The Commonwealth Police are advised of all cases of fraudulent endorsement and negotiation of cheques drawn on an official bank account in accordance with directions issued under the Audit Act. Any steps for detection of fraudulent activities and /or to correct the situation would be taken by the Commonwealth Police. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Under the Delivered Meals Subsidy Act, payments are not made to the City of Parramatta Council but to the Parramatta and Districts Senior Citizens' Centre. Payments for the period 1972-1978 were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) and (b) Statistics of incidence of cancer are available only for recent years and only for some States. To obtain comparisons over the timespan mentioned it has been necessary to use statistics of mortality instead. The tables show mortality in Australia from major cancers in males and females in 1950 and 1976. 
There are very many forms of cancer. Incidence and mortality are increasing for some, stationary for others, and decreasing for others again. Comment is therefore confined to increases in mortality from the major cancers shown in the tables. There are very great increases in lung cancer mortality, almost all due to smoking. The increases in mortality certified as due to cancer of the pancreas probably reflect improvement between 1950 and 1976 of the capacity to diagnose this cancer, although a true increase cannot be excluded. The increases in mortality past 85 years from cancers of the large intestine and breast probably reflect higher standards of medical care of the aged. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(i) Nil, (ii) nil, (iii) nil. 
(i) Nil, (ii) 29, (iii) 75. 
Eight staff previously located at 68 Macquarie Street, were relocated to Level 6 Westfield Centre with effect from 7 May 1979. 
Department of the Special Trade Representative: Opinion Polls and Surveys (Question No. 3771) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) I am informed that all the detailed information sought by the honourable member in relation to the Community Health Program and School Dental Scheme is not readily available in the format sought. The collation and compilation of all this information is a task which would involve the use of considerable staff resources and additional cost, and I am therefore reluctant to authorise the expenditure which would necessarily be incurred. However, should the honourable member seek such information in relation to specific Community Health Program projects or the School Dental Scheme, I will obtain that information for him promptly. 
While annual expenditure concerning individual projects within the School Dental Scheme is not available, information is presented showing the capital costs of projects established under the Scheme. 
Mobile school dental clinics themselves have not been included in the table because their operation is not restricted to specific electorates. A total of 1 52 mobile clinics is currently approved under the Scheme. 
and (d) Set out in the tables are details of staffing and services provided for each approved Community Health Program project, by Federal Electoral Division, and for those Community Health Program projects which operate on a Statewide basis. 
It should be noted that many Community Health Program projects provide services in more than one Federal Electoral Division, and such projects are indicated with an asterisk (*). In relation to such projects, staffing details relate to the total service provided by each project. 
Staffing information provided represents the level of staffing approved for the purposes of Commonwealth funding under the Community Health Program, and do not necessarily represent staffing positions occupied. 
With regard to the School Dental Scheme, detailed information is not available concerning staff numbers on an electorate basis. However, a total of approximately 2,300 persons is employed within the Scheme, including 990 dental therapists and 310 dentists. In addition, there are approximately530 dental therapy students. 
Under the School Dental Scheme, free dental care, including prevention, dental health education and treatment, is available to school children to the completion of primary education. In Tasmania, the Commonwealth also provides financial support for the dental care of secondary school children under15 years of age, but only at the current level of activity. The School Dental Scheme involves the training of dental therapists and, for this purpose, a total of 10 dental therapy schools have been established. 
Because of the volume of information required to answer the honourable member's question, the tables detailing approved community health projects, in each electorate and the projects approved for funding under the School Dental Scheme in each electorate will not be published in  Hansard.  However, I have arranged for copies to be made available in the Parliamentary Library and the Table office for the information of honourable members. I have also sent to each honourable member, details of Community Health Program projects in his electorate and in his State, and details of School Dental Scheme projects throughout Australia. 
Pursuant to section 72 of the Health Commission Ordinance 1975 I present the annual report of the Capital Territory Health Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) The estimated number of services for which medical benefits were claimed under Item 6469 in the Medical Benefits Schedule, was 50,100 in the calendar year 1977, and 50,900 in the financial year1977-78. These figures are based on sample surveys of medical benefit claims processed by health insurance funds and Medibank. 
No appropriate sample data are available for the financial year 1976-77. Because the figures relate only to services for which medical benefits were claimed, they do not include services to hospital patients in standard wards of recognised hospitals. Information is not available to my Department on these latter services. 
There are other Schedule items, involving gynaecological procedures, which may result in the termination of pregnancy. Such items, however, were incorporated into the Schedule for reasons other than the termination of pregnancy, even though, in some cases, termination might result. 
Termination of pregnancy is the invariable outcome of Schedule item 6469, although it is apparent that terminations may occur also through the rendering of other services. There is no information on either the incidence or cost of terminations in this second category. 
As at 30 June1977, 49.04 per cent of women were aged15 to 49. This is the definition of 'child bearing age' adopted by the Bureau of Statistics for age specific fertility calculations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) All persons except those in possession of a Pensioner Health Benefits Card and their dependants are required to pay a patient contribution, currently $2.50, towards the cost of each supply of a pharmaceutical benefit. 
(a) Aged pensioners in possession of a Pensioner Health Benefits Card and their dependants receive pharmaceutical benefits free of charge. 
There is no reduction in the patient contribution for recipients of supporting mothers benefit. 
There is no reduction in the patient contribution for recipients of unemployment benefit. 
I thank the honourable member for Prospect for his very warm welcome back to Australia from the World Health Assembly. I understand that  Mr Carroll,  the officer in question, gave evidence before the Estimates Committee on 4 May during my absence. I have not yet had an opportunity to read the transcript. 
However, I will do so, and I give an undertaking to the honourable member that, if possible, I will provide him with the information that he requires, at least on a confidential basis. 
-The Meals on Wheels service is one service that Liberal-National Country Party governments have consistently supported. I am certain that it was a Liberal-National Country Party government that introduced the measure. This Government believes in encouraging people in the community to try to help those less fortunate than themselves rather than leave all welfare on the shoulders of big brother government. We do appreciate the service that is rendered through the system that has been in operation for some time. However, I will take into consideration the support that the honourable gentleman has obviously shown for the program and some of the views that he has expressed and I will pass those on to the Minister for Social Security. 
-On 3 April 1979,  Dr Cass  asked me, as Minister for Health, a question without notice  (Hansard,  pages1393 and 4) concerning the proposed private hospital at Clayton, Victoria, to replace the present Queen Victoria Hospital. The following is in answer to the honourable member's question: 
American Medical International, (AMI), the company to which the honourable member referred, entered the Australian health care market in1978 through the acquisition of The Avenue Hospital in Melbourne. 
I have been informed that the Victorian Government is currently considering a proposal for AMI to participate in the ownership construction and management of a hospital associated with the proposed Queen Victoria Medical Centre at Monash University in Melbourne. I understand that the AMI proposal is that it will provide a teaching hospital on the campus of Monash University at no capital cost to the University itself. 
I understand that the proposal involves the construction by AMI, on land owned by the Crown, of a 200 bed private hospital at a cost of approximately $20m. The basis of the use of the land is that it will be provided at a nominal rental and will revert to the Crown at the end of 30 or 40 years. I am also advised that a complement of beds will be provided for public sector patients at per diem rates guaranteed not to exceed the average cost of health care delivery to the Government in a representative cross-section of Government hospitals in the State of Victoria. 
I have previously pointed out, in my reply of 3 April1979, that as long as the firm concerned meets all the requirements of the Foreign Investment Review Board, I can see no reason why it should not enter this field subject to any constraints imposed as a result of the rationalisation discussions presently taking place between the Commonwealth and State Governments. 
AMI is said to be aware of the problems of overbedding in certain areas of the capital cities and is therefore looking very closely at where it should locate its hospitals. 
The company is also said to be aware that private hospitals in Australia today usually provide only limited services, mostly of the 'quick throughput' surgical type. However, I understand it is its intention to provide a totality of services similar to that provided in a balanced public general hospital in Australia and similar to those provided in its hospitals in America. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Yes. 
) The Joint Management review report is regarded as an internal working document and, as indicated by the Public 
Service Board in its1976 Annual Report (pages 18-19) in relation to such reviews (then known as efficiency reviews), normal arrangements do not provide for release of review reports to staff or other organisations. However, arrangements will be made for consultation with staff organisations, on relevant conclusions and recommendations of the National Acoustic Laboratories (NAL) review, before final implementation decisions are reached. 
The review proposals do not contain any suggestion for diverting elsewhere services provided by the National Acoustic Laboratories to the public; its proposals are primarily directed towards improving arrangements for delivery of the present range of services provided by NAL to the public. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Under the procedures currently in force, the decision is made by the Commonwealth Medical Officer who decides that a specialist examination should be called for, or it is made by another senior medical officer of the Department of Health. 
Self-serve Petrol Stations  (Question No. 3333) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Yes. My Department advises however that it has been unable to attribute the introduction of the spotted alfalfa aphid to inefficient aircraft disinsection or indeed to any other specific avenue of entry. 
When reports of the aphid were first received, all possible means of entry for the pest (which also occurs in middle east countries, North Africa and USA) were critically examined. These include arrival by aircraft, by air currents, on smuggled plants or by deliberate means. However the foci of infestation were already too widely dispersed by this time for the initial site of entry to be determined. There is no evidence to substantiate which, if any, of the above means of entry were involved. 
However, as a follow-up, quarantine officers were asked to report any omissions of disinsection which came to their notice. There had been no such omissions previously reported which may have resulted in the pest's introduction. 
) Field officers were not instructed to reduce spray treatment for international aircraft but because of contamination problems which had been reported, were instructed to abide strictly to the procedures which had been in force for several years. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The expected completion date for the station is April 1981. 
It is planned that the first intake will comprise up to 120 adult cattle. 
3 ) The intention is that the station will ultimately provide an avenue for importations of cattle, sheep, goats and pigs from all countries which have genetic material of benefit to Australia. However, importations from high disease risk countries such as Africa and South America will be delayed until the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory comes into operation in 1 984. 
Quarantine periods for various livestock species have not yet been determined. They will depend inter alia on the disease status of the countries of origin. 
Livestock species permitted importation into Australia, the countries from which these species may be imported and the quarantine periods which will apply will be determined by legislation. 
Priorities for access to the station as between species allowed entry into Australia under quarantine legislation or between breeds within those species will be determined by the Minister for Health on the recommendations of an expert advisory committee to be established for the purpose. 
See (4) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. However my Department advises that it does not consider that over-zealous economy drives and staff limitations are being applied in the quarantine area. Quarantine staffing levels at ports of entry are kept under review by my Department and adjustments made where necessary to maintain effective quarantine screening procedures. 
See (1) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No; the work being carried out by the Royal Australasian Ornithologist Union is, I understand, concerned with the migratory pattern of wading birds. 
Professor Neville Stanley, through the University of Western Australia, receives a grant from the Commonwealth to assist with studies on Australian Encephalitis in that State. These studies include examinations of mosquitos for the virus and the blood of birds for evidence of infection. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The figures for Australia quoted by the honourable member relate only to medical research supported by the National Health and Medical Research Council and cannot be directly compared with the overseas figures quoted as the basis of calculation for these is unknown. In Australia medical research is supported from a variety of other sources including State Governments, universities and privately funded organisations. The overall expenditure on health research in Australia is believed to be of the order of $40-50m per annum. 
Despite the need for restraint in public spending, the Government has increased its total allocation to medical research to the National Health and Medical Research Council from $9. lm in 1976-77 to $ 1 2.8m in this current financial year. I believe that this underlines the Government's willingness to accord a high priority to medical research in this country, and I will continue to encourage greater Government assistance for medical research. 
Australian National Railways: Land at Port Augusta (Question No. 3685) 
The short answer to the question from the honourable member for Petrie is no. I am informed by the Department of Health that no officer of the Department issued such a directive. I certainly issued no such directive. I will seek leave to make a statement to the Parliament on this issue after Question Time. 

 - Mr Speaker, it all sounds like a lot of poppycock, but it is a very serious matter for a lot of Tasmanian poppy growers. The honourable member for Franklin and other Tasmanians, I am sure, and I are very concerned about the serious problems facing producers of the concentrate of poppy straw and other opium alkaloids in Australia because of the resolutions that were recommended by the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs and adopted by the Economic and Social Council of that body. The resolutions favour the traditional supply countries to the exclusion of others. The biggest user of these concentrates happens to be the United States of America. The United States does support the resolutions but does not regard Australia as a traditional supplier. 
The Government is concerned that all appropriate steps should be taken to ensure that the interests of the industry and the two firms involved- Glaxo Australia Pty Ltd and Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty Ltd- and the farmers are protected as much as possible. The Department of Health has assured Tasmanian Alkaloids that it will provide assistance wherever possible. It will maintain close liaison with the Tasmanian authorities, the industry and other Commonwealth departments regarding adopting the most effective approach possible at the United Nations General Assembly when the United Nations Commission's resolutions are debated later in the year. 
I give an assurance to the honourable member and to all the people in Tasmania associated with this industry that the Government is making every effort through diplomatic channels at the highest possible level to influence the United States authorities and the Drug Enforcement Agency in particular which will have to make the final decision next month in relation to the importation of poppy straw concentrate from Australia. In spite of the mirth that it appeared to generate, I thank the honourable member for asking the question. I am certain that he feels for those people who are presently very worried about their future. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House that a report entitled 'Investigation of a Possible Association between use of the Herbicide 2,4,5-T and the incidents of Neural Tube Defects in New South Wales' which indicated the possible association between the herbicide 2,4,5-T and neural tube defects in New South Wales was received by the Department of Health in midDecember. It was subjected to critical analysis by statistical and scientific experts from within the Department and by others from outside the Department itself. 
As a result of this study, a letter of 6 March from my Department to the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine stated that in the opinion of those who had studied the report the arguments in  Dr Field  's paper did not stand up to analysis. Serious deficiencies in statistical reasoning created major doubts as to the validity of the conclusions reached. Subsequently a revised version of the report was studied by the ad hoc working party on 2,4,5-T which was convened by the National Health and Medical Research Council on 23 March 1979. The working party concluded that no opinion could be formed in view of the amount of additional work that still needed to be undertaken before it could be evaluated. It was noted that the factor or factors operating during the early stages of the study appeared no longer to be operating during the later stages of the study. In this regard the working party noted that 2,4,5-T usage was unchanged throughout, and consequently it appeared that some other factors might well be responsible for the results reported. Withdrawal of the report from publication was recommended by the Department and supported by the working party in order that further work could be done with a view to producing a document which would stand up to critical analysis and to allow conclusions to be reached which would not be subject to immediate challenge. 
The School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine publishes a considerable amount of valuable material and it is not the practice of the Department of Health to attempt to suppress any publication because it might contain controversial material. The Department will, however, accept any invitation from the School to comment on an article and will not hesitate to advise on any aspects which it feels might be improved by revision. Directives to  Dr Field  not to discuss the topic did not emanate from the Department of Health or from me as Minister and I am deeply concerned that this impression may have been created- indeed it was conveyed in a report that was on  AM  this morning. The revised version considered by the working party was again considered to require further work and it is understood that this is now nearing completion. 
The full report on the 2,4,5-T deliberations of the working party has already been presented to the Public Health Advisory Committee of the NHMRC and will be formally submitted to the Council at its meeting in June. It is anticipated that it will be released upon consideration by Council. It will be recalled that a special executive meeting of Council was convened immediately following the meeting of the working party to enable a summary report to be made public. Telephone inquiries made of my Department from the Environmental Protection Agency of the United States of America on 30 March requested an opinion on 2,4,5-T and on  Dr Field  's report. This information was conveyed to the EPA through the American Embassy in Australia. 
The membership of the working party included experts with a wide range of expertise, in the fields of pharmocology, toxicology, pathology, obstetrics and genetics. The Commonwealth Department of Health was represented on the working party by  Dr W.  A. Langsford, who is not only responsible for the Public Health Division of the Commonwealth Department of Health, but also is  Chairman  of the Public Health Advisory Committee of the Council. Professor Charles Kerr of the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, who is co-author with  Dr Field  of the report was also a member of the working party. There is a vast amount of scientific literature, amounting to several thousand publications on 2,4,5-T alone, and new information is evaluated as and when it comes to hand. 
The aim of the NHMRC and the Government is to establish a sound basis for judgment on all issues on which the health of the population is concerned. I can assure the House that they will hot hesitate to recommend restrictions on any substance if it is considered to be justified. Indeed failure to do so in the face of adequate evidence could never be condoned. I assure the House that my Department and the NHMRC will continue to study all the evidence which comes to light and will not shirk the responsibility of issuing what they consider to be sound and proper advice whenever it is required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It was hoped that it might have been possible to introduce the measures referred to in the context of the 1978-79 Budget. However, this was not possible because of the economic circumstances then prevailing and which dictated budgetary restraint. The need for restraint has continued. I can advise, however, that the proposals will be considered in the forthcoming Budget context. 
-by leave- The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has briefly outlined certain measures which the Government has decided to take in the health sphere. I will now amplify those measures and the reasons for their implementation. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Wheat Industry Stabilization (Reimbursement of Borrowing Costs) Bill 1979 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
It is a matter of general concern for the community that it must get the best value possible in terms of health care for each dollar spent. 
Therefore, there is a real necessity for this complete review of the hospital system, which will include the Australian Capital Territory. The Government will be discussing the inquiry with the States. We will commence the inquiry as soon as possible. An early report to the Government would be desirable in view of the expiry of most of the hospital cost-sharing agreements in mid- 1980. 
No doubt the inquiry will find much useful information in the booklet entitled 'Report on Rationalisation of Hospital Facilities and Services, and on Proposed New Charges- A Discussion Paper'. I take this opportunity to table a copy of that report. It has been prepared by a committee of Commonwealth officials following a series of meetings with the States to examine measures to improve hospital productivity, efficiency and cost containment. I circulated the discussion paper to the State and Northern Territory Health Ministers on 2 March this year as a basis for further discussion. I emphasise that the recommendations have not been endorsed by the Commonwealth Government but the discussion paper has been endorsed as such. During the inquiry, the Government would wish that its contribution to operating costs of public hospitals for the 1 979-80 financial year be held at the 1 978-79 levels. I recognise that this constraint may have wide-spread effects on some States' hospital systems. Early discussion between the Commonwealth and the States will look at this aspect. The Commonwealth will be seeking the participation and co-operation of the States to ensure that an inquiry will be fully successful in making recommendations to improve the efficiency of the hospital system. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) One officer expressed concern in evidence he gave the Senate Committee on National Resources. The DirectorGeneral of my Department, who is the Director of Quarantine, is not aware that other quarantine staff have expressed concern. 
Quarantine precautions at airports against the introduction of foot and mouth disease (FMD) apply generally in relation to aircraft, passengers and goods from all countries in which FMD is endemic and countries which, by virtue of considerations such as geographic location, are regarded as at risk' from the disease. Accordingly, no change in airport quarantine procedures is required where outbreaks occur in any country falling into either of these categories. Outbreaks of FMD over recent years have all occurred in countries in one or other of these categories. 
Chief Quarantine Officers (Animals) in each State are routinely advised of changes in disease status of overseas countries. Should an outbreak be reported in a country now regarded as disease free, airport quarantine officers in each State and the Bureau of Customs would be advised and procedures amended accordingly. 
See ( I ) above. There is no foundation for an allegation of complacency. 
The proposition advanced by the honourable member appears to be a very practical and reasonable one. I will convey the question to my colleague the Minister for Social Security. I am sure that she will be very happy to investigate the proposition. 
I might say that this scheme is working extremely well. These people will be bulk-billed at 75 per cent of the schedule fee. They will not be asked to make any direct payment. The law, of course, as it is presently written and will remain as such will ensure that the doctor who bulk-bills will not be able to obtain any direct payment from the patient in that category. 
The changes, of course, apply also in respect of optometrical services which are encompassed in the health insurance scheme. Thus, while achieving a substantial saving in budgetary terms, the Government nevertheless is still guaranteeing universal protection against higher-cost items of medical service. In the light of the tight budgetary situation, and the fact that health costs have to be met by one means or another, and in view of the wish of the majority of Australians to exercise freedom of choice in health care, the Government believes the proposals to be realistic and inescapable. 
Effect on Health Insurance Contribution Rates 
From 1 September this year, the Government will require health insurance funds to maintain the current level of benefit in the basic medical table- that is, 75 per cent of the schedule fee, with a maximum payment by the patient of $10 for each service where the schedule fee is charged. Quite obviously, contribution rates for this basic table will rise. Such increases will vary between States and individual funds, but departmental estimates- and I emphasise that they are only estimates- indicate that rises could be of the order of between $ 1.50 a week and $2.50 a week, depending on the States. Those sums would relate to weekly family contributions to the basic medical table. If funds maintain the current level of benefit for supplementary tables- that is, up to 100 per cent benefits- contribution rates for those tables will, of course, increase also. 
In respect of the proposed new hospital inpatient charges, hospital insurance contribution rates also would need to rise for both basic and supplementary tables. Again, the extent of the increases would vary between States and funds. However, the basic weekly family table contribution rates for hospital cover are estimatedand against I emphasise only estimated- to rise by amounts ranging from between 65c to about 90c, and for supplementary tables by from 90c to about $1.20 a week. The medical benefits changes mean that those who elect to remain uninsured will pay the full cost out of their own pockets where the schedule fee is $20 or less. 
The best advice I can give such people is that they should weigh up their personal circumstances carefully and decide whether it is in their best financial interest to remain uninsured or to take out medical insurance with a private fund. No doubt, the funds will be quickly assessing the new position and making early announcement of their revised rates; so, individuals will be able to decide their best course of action. Arrangements will be made so that the two month waiting period for benefits normally applied to basic medical tables operated by health insurance funds will be waived between 1 September and 3 1 October this year, to enable people who enrol in that period to receive benefits immediately. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (a), (b) and (c) There are approximately four million known chemicals and of these, over 6,000 are in common use. Hence, it is impossible to individually evaluate their carcinogenic, mutagenic and teratogenic potential. Nevertheless, many of these chemicals have been evaluated and are subject to continuing review as further information becomes available. 
No comprehensive list has been prepared of the synthetic chemicals or other substances presently in use in Australia, and that have been or are being investigated here or in the U.S.A. Preparation of such a list would be a mammoth task and would involve direct approaches to all Australian universities and medical institutions as well as to the United States authorities. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council (N.H. and M.R.C.) establishes special committees or working parties to evaluate appropriate scientific literature when special problems arise. Such committees as the Pesticides and Agricultural Chemical Subcommittee, Poisons Schedule (Standing) Committee, Food Science and Technology Subcommittee and the Occupational Carcinogens Subcommittee have been established over recent years and have all been conscious of the carcinogenic, mutagenic and teratogenic effects of chemicals. Accordingly, as part of their membership they have experienced toxicologists who critically review all submissions for the use of food additives, pesticides and poisons coming before them. No submission is approved until it has been established that little or no risk exists. 
In addition to its special committees, the N.H. and M.R.C. supports research projects that can lead to the detection of occupational carcinogens, effects of drugs on genetic material and the role of genetics in human disease. 
The Australian Drug Evaluation Committee through its Congenital Abnormalities Subcommittee also has responsibility for assessing carcinogenic, mutagenic and teratogenic risks associated with therapeutic agents. 
Carcinogenic substances are usually not detected in human exposure situations but in animal experimentation and this presents many problems of extrapolation to the human situation. There is the prime difficulty of identifying mutagens and carcinogens particularly as a mutagen is not necessarily a carcinogen. 
Ultimately the main problem may not be whether a substance is mutagenic or carcinogenic but having identified it, to discover where, how and in what quantity it is being used. 
Joint Review of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau  (Question No. 3572) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)12.(b)12,(c)13. 
The names of these nursing homes and the proprietors are as follows: 
My Department's records indicate that there has been no change in the proprietorship of the above homes during the period referred to in the question. 
-On 21 March 1979  (Hansard,  pages 1012 and 1013),  Dr Klugman  requested information from me concerning medical benefits paid by the Department of Health firstly on the basis of 40 per cent of the Schedule fee with a maximum patient contribution of $20, and secondly in relation to socially disadvantaged patients at a refund level of 75 per cent flat. Table 1 below shows payments to registered medical benefits organisations by the Department of Health of advances and reimbursements to 31 March 1979 in respect of Commonwealth medical benefits payable by those organisations on behalf of the Commonwealth since 1 November 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare has been the subject of detailed consideration and 1 expect to make an announcement of the Government's response to licit drugs aspects of the Senate Committee's recommendations soon. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the Department of Health Hearing Centre, 68 Macquarie Street, Parramatta, there are: 
Two full-time and 2 part-time staff; and 
b ) Eleven permanent staff. 
At Medibank 's regional and branch offices at 55 Phillip Street, Parramatta, there are: 
a ) Ninty-nine full-time staff and 22 pan-time staff; and 
b ) Seventy-eight permanent staff. 
At Medibank 's second Parramatta Branch Office at Westfield Shopping Town, there are: 
a ) Five pan-time staff; and 
Four permanent staff. 
I would just like to answer the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  on one very important point before I go any further. That is on the question of the inquiry into hospitals. The honourable member for Prospect has assumed a figure- cut of $ 1 1 6m. In my speech, I did not mention any figure for savings because hospital expenditure is to be held at existing levels. I said that the Commonwealth and State governments would look at holding of Commonwealth expenditure at current levels. There is a great difference between what I said and how the honourable member interpreted what I said. Quite clearly it would be foolish to close down country hospitals or to close down any hospital until an inquiry such as a royal commission has completed its survey into the total situation in this nation. I think it would be true to say that very few governments would have the political courage to close hospitals, even though we have a great surplus of beds, unless there was an in depth inquiry at a national level. I hope it would be a royal commission into the operation, efficiency and administration of hospitals throughout this country. 
No one will convince me that if we are to come to grips with this great problem of health costs in Australia we can leave to one side the necessity for inquiring into the operations of hospitals in Australia. Hospitals do represent, so far as this Government and the taxpayers are concerned, the biggest drain on resources. Something like 60 per cent of the Commonwealth Government's contribution, which is taken from the taxpayers of Australia, is going to meet the operational costs of hospitals throughout this country. There have been enormous developments in that area. There has been a great burgeoning of high cost medical technology. There has been a lot of evidence to indicate that there has been duplication of very expensive units within the hospital system in the inner metropolitan areas of this country. There has been evidence of wastage. There has been evidence of maladministration as was brought to light in the inquiry by the Public Accounts Committee in South Australia. It would be quite irresponsible for this Government or for any government to continue to go on ignoring the fundamental reasons why health costs in Australia are exploding. I will go on to show in a moment how they have exploded. 
In regard to the discussion before the House, I concede one point and that is that this further change will, to some extent, create confusion in the minds of the people. I believe it is unfortunate that we have had as many changes to the health insurance system. Quite clearly this Government has been faced with a very serious and critical problem of coming to grips with one of the greatest economic problems that this nation has gone through, apart from the Great Depression of the thirties. We inherited this problem from the Opposition that sits opposite. 
The Opposition created the problem. When the Opposition was in government in this country for three years it failed to come to grips with so many problems that it did not matter. When it was in government it failed to formulate a health policy which had any vestige of economic prudence. I do not know whether the honourable member for Prospect assisted in the formulation of the scheme that the Opposition introduced. I doubt that he did. The scheme proved to be fair to the poor but extravagant and indulgent to the rich. The Government of this country almost went bankrupt in the process of trying to find money from people to pay for some of its expensive social welfare and health policies. One of the policies which helped to bleed almost dry the consolidated revenue which is taken from the Australian people and, therefore, the taxpayers, was Medibank itself. The other night we were called a bunch of amateurs by members of the Opposition. I can say with some justification that this country was governed by a bunch of incompetents for three years. They got this country into the mess that it is in today. Most people realise that the damage which was done to the nation was done during the Australian Labor Party regime. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports reacts and why would he not react. He sits there as guilty as any honourable member can be. Not only did his Party do economic damage when in government through its economic mismanagement, but its policies had an impact on the expectations of people in this country. Australians of all walks of life suddenly thought that they were in the land of free lunches- the lucky country syndrome. The Labor Government raised health and welfare payments to such levels that some people in the community began to believe that it was their God given right to receive a benefit from the government. They overlooked the fact that they were paying, and paying dearly, for those benefits out of their own pockets as a result of high taxation. Unfortunately, in the health area the financial circumstances of the individual were improperly considered and resources were not necessarily directed to those in need. So the record of the Opposition whilst in government regarding health services is so disastrous that the less members of the Opposition talk about the subject the better it must be for them. 
During Labor's three years of office the openended Medibank arrangements were associated with doctors' fees increasing by nearly 60 per cent. Then there was the open-ended hospital cost-sharing agreements which we had to tighten up and the hospital development plan under which hundreds of millions of dollars were poured into further hospital development without an attempt to rationalise the growth of the hospital system in Australia. In 1972-73, health costs represented 5.97 per cent of the gross domestic product whereas by 1975-76 they represented 7.76 per cent- a rise from $2,505m to $6,460m.  Mr Acting Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard-   hope that the honourable member for Prospect will permit me to do so- a table, taken from the Department of Health estimates, showing how costs increased in respect of the gross domestic product, how the Commonwealth contribution increased during the Labor Party's term of office, what the State contribution is and what the private contribution is. 
I am not going to be bound by blackmailing tactics. If that is the honourable gentleman 's wish, I will read some of the table. 
I am not making any such statement. The honourable member has made such a statement often enough. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905281_17_3.jpg"></graphic>

* Adjusted for prepayment of the $2 16m in 1975-76. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I thank the honourable member for Prospect too. I am glad that he came to his senses. In 1972-73 the percentage of gross domestic product spent on health was 5.97, with the Commonwealth contributing 3 1 per cent of total health costs and the States 27 per cent. The total government contribution was 58 per cent and the private contribution was 42 per cent. Yet by 1975-76 the Commonwealth contribution had risen to 48 per cent; total government contributions, that is, taxpayers' contributions, had risen to 72 per cent; and the private contributions were 28 per cent. This indicates the direction of the former Labor 
Government in regard to health costs. The Australian Labor Party's philosophy is expressed in its health and social welfare policy. It is a socialist philosophy, I respect members of the Opposition for adhering to it. But I also ask them to respect the philosophy of the Government. It does not tally with the Opposition's policy. Our policy is not to try to give a blanket cover to all people at the same level and thus dissipate resources to the point where ultimately the Treasury will be left in such a state that, in the final analysis, the Government will find it difficult to support anybody at all. 
Our policy is expressed in the legislation and in the action which the Government takes. I should like to give some further figures which are very interesting insofar as the Labor Party's record, while in office, is concerned. In 1971-72, $2,232m was spent on health in Australia. By 1975-76, that amount had risen to $5,660m- a total increase of 150 per cent. In three years of a Liberal-National Country Party Government- the same number of years as the Labor Party had in office- this figure was reduced to 41 per cent. So whatever the honourable gentleman might say, the Government had succeeded in reducing the great explosion that occurred during the Labor Party 's term in office. 
The Government makes no apology whatsoever for its changes to the health insurance system or for its ideological approach to health and welfare which, as I said earlier, is vastly different from the approach of the Australian Labor Party. The Liberal-National Country Party Government's fundamental social welfare philosophy rests on its commitment to channel scarce resources- they are scarce enough; they are taken from the people's pockets- into the areas of need. We do not support a policy where everybody in the community, regardless of income, is entitled to receive benefits at a high level- at, say, the former highly costly Medibank Mark I level of 85 per cent of the medical benefits fee with the patient paying a maximum of $5. 1 ask what is the Labor Party's policy? If the Labor Party were re-elected to government, would it reintroduce Medibank Mark I? Opposition members are silent. There is a strange silence in this chamber. 
Yes, there is a deafening silence on the part of the Australian Labor Party as to what its health policy would be. Opposition members sit there like honourable mutes. They will hot commit themselves as to their policy. I would be delighted if the honourable member for Prospect or the next  speaker  from the Opposition would announce Labour Party policy in this regard. We could then engage in an ideological debate and see which system the people would like. 
I have here an article written by  Dr Richard  Taylor in January 1979 headed 'Labor Health Policy: 'How Can Labor Reform the Health Care System when Elected in the 1980s?' In this article  Dr Taylor  recommends very strongly the payment of a Commonwealth medical benefit amounting to 85 per cent of the scheduled fee for patients attending doctors who bulk bill and a higher percentage for those attending doctors who do not bulk bill. What an incredible policy! I am certain that this policy will have the scalpel put through it by the shadow Minister for Health, the honourable member for Prospect. I think it is an incredible document but, this policy having been put forward, one wonders whether too many of the honourable gentlemen opposite will be swayed towards adopting a policy which, on my estimates, will cost the Australian people an additional $700m. Where would a Labor government get the additional $700m to fulfil that sort of policy undertaking or for any other system? There is only one way in which Labor could get that sort of money. I do not think that it would result in shonky loans but in very severe taxation on the Australian people. 
The honourable member sitting opposite has a tremendous responsibility not only to his Party but also to the Australian people to let us know just what Australian Labor Party policy is and just what the Labor Party would do in regard to bulk billing if it were elected to office. 
Bulk billing is very fundamental to the way in which the health scheme works. I commend the Australian Medical Association, the Doctors' Reform Society, the General Practitioners Society and the medical profession generally, with a few exceptions, for the way they have cooperated in bulk billing most of the pensioners and certainly the disadvantaged people. I have some very important figures with regard to bulk billing. Prior to 1 November 1978 1.769 million services per month were bulk billed. In November, 1.486 million services were bulk billed; in December, 1.307 million; in January, 1.38 million and in February, 1.32 million. Those figures indicate that doctors are bulk billing most of the pensioners and, certainly, most of the disadvantaged. For the information of honourable members, I point out that there are 6.8 million medical services per month or about 80 million services a year. Of these 85 per cent or 5.8 million per month are under $20. Sixty-five per cent or 4.4 million per month are under $10. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said during Question Time this afternoon, the changes incorporate a universal cover. The pensioners and the disadvantaged people in the community can be direct billed to the Department of Health at the taxpayers expense. The rest of the community is covered to a certain level and those people can insure themselves for the balance. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill proposes that long-term patients accommodated in hospitals who no longer require hospital treatment are to be reclassified as nursing home type patients and required to contribute part of their pension to their care and accommodation in the same way as patients in nursing homes. There is general agreement in principle between State Health Ministers and myself that action should be taken to reclassify long term patients in public hospitals whose situation is similar to nursing home patients. Discussions have been held with the National Standing Committee of Private Hospitals and the Australian Medical Association has also been consulted. The proposals contained in the legislation before the House are based on those discussions. 
The Bill, in paragraph (b) of clause 3, defines a 'nursing-home type patient' as, briefly, an inpatient whose hospitalisation exceeds 60 days, unless a certificate has been issued in accordance with new section 3b, inserted by clause 4 of the Bill. The certificate may be issued at any time by a medical practitioner who certifies that the patient is in need of acute care; professional attention for an acute phase of the patient's condition; active rehabilitation; or continued management, for medical reasons, as a hospital patient. I would emphasise that pensioners, or any other patients, who are required to enter hospital for an acute phase of illness will not be affected by the provisions of this Bill. These patients will be treated as normal hospital patients and will be entitled to receive hospital treatment as long as they are accommodated and require hospital treatment. They will not be required to contribute part of their pension towards their care and accommodation while such acute phase continues. 
The Bill deals with the fees to be charged to nursing-home type patients in recognised hospitals covered under a hospital cost-sharing agreement between the Commonwealth and a State. The matter of the levels of hospital benefits payable by health insurance organisations in respect of nursing-home type patients is included in complementary provisions which amend the National Health Act 1953. 1 will deal with those proposals when introducing that legislation. 
The proposal in relation to recognised hospitals, is that the agreement between the Commonwealth and a State is to be varied to provide for charges to be made in respect of nursing-home type patients in recognised hospitals which will be equal to, firstly, where the patient is not a hospital insured person- the patient contribution paid by nursing-home patients in the relevant State; and secondly, where the patient is a hospital insured person- the total of the patient contribution and the Commonwealth nursing home benefit payable in the relevant State. These levels of benefit vary from State to State, and presently range from $11.75 a day in Western Australia to $20.40 a day in Victoria. An additional benefit of $6 per day is payable for extensive care patients which will be reflected in the fees charged. Extensive care is the terminology. 
Honourable members will note that the term 'patient contribution', for the purposes of the new arrangements, is defined in paragraph (c) of clause 3 of the Bill. Further, the amendment made by clause 10, varying the Heads of Agreement in Schedule 2 to the Health Insurance Act 1973, enables the appropriate patient contribution to be levied on patients who are not hospital insured. 
The final amendment in the Bill relating to this matter is contained in clause 8. Certain private hospitals, conducted by religious and charitable organisations, have beds approved for the purposes of the payment of a supplementary daily bed payment, in addition to the private hospital bed day subsidy of $16 payable under section 33 of the Act. This supplementary payment relates to patients to whom care and treatment is provided without charge- They are in an identical position to hospital patients in recognised hospitals who are treated free of charge. The amendment in clause 8 places these patients, in respect of whom an approval is in force under section 34 of the Act, on the same basis as similar patients in recognised hospitals as regards the payment of a 'patient contribution', in the event they are classified as nursing-home type patients. 
Honourable members will recall that in my statement to the House on 24 May advising details of the revised health insurance arrangements to operate from 1 September 1979, I stated that a key element would be the introduction of a universal medical guarantee for doctors' fees over $20 for each schedule service. The proposal will be that Commonwealth medical benefit will be payable only for medical benefits schedule fees above $20 except in the case of pensioners with pensioner health benefit cards, entitlement cards and patients classified by their doctors as disadvantaged. The new rate of Commonwealth medical benefit will equal the amount by which the schedule fee exceeds $20. The amendments contained in clause 5 of the Bill give effect to this Government initiative. Clauses 6 and 7 are consequential amendments to the amendment made by clause 5. 1 would emphasise to honourable members that the provisions governing the payment of Commonwealth medical benefits for eligible pensioners and disadvantaged persons remain unchanged. 
A further matter dealt with in the Bill is contained in clause 9. This provision enables Commonwealth medical benefits payments under the Health Insurance Act 1973 to be paid out of the National Welfare Fund, as are similar type commonwealth benefits, such as pharmaceutical benefits, and covers unforeseen circumstances such as large-scale epidemics. The amendment, together with those in Part III of the Bill, has the further effect of permitting the Department of Health to pay medical benefits which become payable in respect of services rendered before 1 November 1978, the date the current medical benefit arrangements came into effect, Presently, these payments are made by the Health Insurance Commission on behalf of the Commonwealth. The amendments in clause 9 and Part III of the Bill will commence operation on 1 July 1979. The amendment made by paragraph (a) of clause 3 of the Bill, together with the transitional provision in clause 15, provides for the Northern Territory to be an approved pathology practitioner, for the purposes of the pathology benefits arrangements. The amendment is operative from 1 January 1979 and is necessitated by the granting of self-government to the Territory from that date. The remaining provisions, in the Bill, clauses 13 and 14, are transitional provisions relating to the proposals for nursinghome type patients. I commend the Bil to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the House contains provisions relating to three principal matters. Firstly, health insurance benefits payable under revised arrangements, secondly, amendments to procedures relating to the tabling of ministerial directions and revocations under the National Health Act and, thirdly, improvements to the isolated patients travel and accommodation assistance scheme. 
The first group of provisions relating to health insurance benefits concerns the revised medical benefits arrangements to operate from 1 September 1979. The details of these arrangements were contained in my statement to the House on 24 May 1979. Honourable members will recall that at that time I advised that, under the Government's revised medical benefits arrangements to operate from 1 September 1979, registered medical benefits organisations would be continued to be required to pay out of the basic medical benefits table, medical benefits of 75 per cent of the schedule fee with a maximum payment by the patient of $ 10 for each service where the schedule fee is charged. 
The amendments contained in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of clause 3, which amend the definitions of 'basic medical benefits table' and 'guaranteed medical benefit' and insert a new definition of 'prescribed professional service', ensure that the appropriate medical benefit is paid by registered medical benefits organisations. As I further mentioned in my statement of 24 May 1979, a period of two months from 1 September 1979 will be allowed during which persons who enrol with registered medical benefits organisations for benefits from a basic or optional medical benefits table, will receive immediate entitlement to such benefits without any waiting period being applied. 
Debate interrupted. 
I would like to repeat that point for the benefit of those who may be interested. I had to rush in order to try to get the burden of that message across by 10.30 p.m. I mentioned in my statement of 24 May 1979 that a period of 2 months from 1 September 1979 will be allowed during which persons who enrol with registered medical benefits organisations for benefits from a basic or optional medical benefits table will receive immediate entitlement to such benefits without any waiting period being applied. The condition of registration specified in clause 15 provides accordingly. 
The second group of provisions relating to health insurance benefits concerns the level of hospital benefits to be paid by registered hospital benefits organisations for nursing-home type patients. These provisions are complementary to provisions contained in the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1979. 1 will not speak in detail of the provisions in that Bill, but I would draw the attention of honourable members on both sides of the House to the terms 'nursing-home type patients' and 'patient contribution' which are defined in the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1979 and which were explained in my second reading speech on that legislation. These terms will have the same meaning for the purposes of the amendments made by the Bill now before the House. As I further mentioned in my second reading speech on the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1979, the proposals in relation to nursing-home type patients envisage fees being charged, under Commonwealth-State hospital agreements, in recognised hospitals, related to these types of patients. For uninsured persons, this will be a fee equivalent to the patient contribution paid by nursing home patients in State government nursing homes in the relevant State. For hospital insured persons, the fees charged nursing-home type patients will again be subject to Commonwealth-State hospital agreements. These fees will be set at the level of the aggregate of the defined patient contribution, and the Commonwealth nursing home benefit payable in the relevant State. This benefit is specified in section 47 of the National Health Act and ranges from $11.75 a day in Western Australia to $20.40 a day in Victoria. A further nursing home benefit of $6 a day is payable in respect of extensive care patients, and this benefit will also be reflected in the fees charged such nursing-home type patients. Presently nursing home benefits payable under the National Health Act by registered hospital benefits organisations are specified in basic and optional hospital benefits tables operated by these organisations. 
The Bill, in clause 3, amends the definition of 'basic hospital benefits table' by specifying the hospital benefits payable for nursing-home type patients in recognised and private hospitals in a State where provision for such patients is made in the Commonwealth-State Hospital Agreement. In brief, the benefit for insured nursinghome type patients in recognised hospitals will be an amount equal to the fees payable by the patient, less the patient contribution, as defined in the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1979. The principle will be similar in private hospitals. However, the level of hospital benefits payable in private hospitals from the basic table will not exceed, at any time, the fees charged for sharedward accommodation in recognised hospitals, at present $40 a day. The benefit level could be reduced below that level having regard to the amount of the fee payable by the patient. The amendment made by paragraphs (a) and (b) of clause 10 of the Bill enables benefits for nursinghome type patients to be paid out of optional hospital benefits tables operated by registered organisations. Registered hospital benefits organisations will not be permitted to offer benefits from their basic or optional hospital benefits tables to cover the amount of the patient contribution. The condition of registration contained in clause  13  of the Bill ensures that the patient contribution, as denned in the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1979, will also be payable by nursing-home type patients who insure for hospital benefits above the level payable under a basic or optional hospital benefits table. The concept of the patient being required to pay a personal contribution is consistent with the principle applying in nursing homes. 
The second matter covered by the Bill before the house concerns the procedures involved in relation to ministerial directions and revocations. Section  73BE  (2) of the National Health Act provides for the Minister to give a direction in relation to matters of discrimination and the level of medical and hospital benefits payable. Section  73E  enables the Minister to revoke a declaration in relation to an optional table which satisfies guidelines determined by the Minister. The ministerial directions and revocations which I have just mentioned are presently subject to review by Parliament. Sections  73 BE  and  73E  provide for the Minister to place a copy of any direction or instrument of revocation before each House of Parliament. The direction or revocation does not take effect until the period of  15  sitting days specified for disallowance has passed. These provisions were based on a precedent contained in section 42 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act  1976. 
During the debate in the Senate in November last year on the National Health Amendment Bill (No.  3) 1978,  which inserted the relevant provisions into the National Health Act, it was pointed out that, although a motion upon notice for disallowance of the direction or instrument of revocation might be tabled, there is no obligation that such a motion be dealt with. In the event that the motion was not considered within the period of disallowance, the direction or revocation would automatically come into effect at the cessation of that period. At the time the provisions were inserted in the legislation it was intended that an effective review procedure would be provided. I have taken cognizance of the points made during the debate in the Senate on the National Health Amendment Bill (No.  3) 1978-  the matter was raised by  Senator Cavanagh-  and accept that the procedure provided for was not suitable for the circumstances specified under the National Health Act. Accordingly, the Bill, in clauses 9 and  10,  provides that a ministerial direction, under section  7 3  BE, and an instrument of revocation, under section  73E,  having been tabled in both Houses of Parliament in accordance with those provisions, will not come into effect until any motion upon notice has been withdrawn or properly dealt with. 
I turn now to the isolated patients travel and accommodation assistance scheme, an excellent scheme. This scheme, which commenced on 1 October 1978, provides financial assistance to help meet the travel and accommodation expenses incurred when people living in isolated areas need to travel long distances to receive specialist medical attention. Both sides of the Parliament welcomed the scheme, as have the residents of isolated areas who previously could have been faced with considerable expenses should they require specialist medical attention. However, experience has shown that there are certain anomalies in the scheme. Clauses 4 to 8 of this Bill, and regulations that are proposed to be made, will give effect to the changes to the scheme that I foreshadowed in this House on 24 May 1 979. The Bill will permit the exemption of residents of certain offshore islands from the requirement that applicants live more than 200 kilometres from the specialist to whom they are referred. Some residents of these islands have been excluded from the scheme because they live within 200 kilometres of the places of specialist treatment. However, the difficulties they ordinarily face in travelling to receive treatment are such that the Government considers that they should be eligible for assistance. The islands concerned are Kangaroo Island in South Australia- 
The honourable member for Barker, who has been listening to my speech, says 'hear, hear'. He was one of the prime movers in this matter. Other islands concerned are Groote Eylandt, Melville Island, Bathurst Island, Elcho Island in the Northern Territory, Three Hummock Island, King Island and the Furneaux Group in Tasmania. Regulations being proposed would extend the scheme to these islands. 
The Bill will also remove the requirement for patients to obtain departmental approval prior to their commencing the journey for treatment. This has not always been practicable and has resulted in some otherwise eligible persons being unable to receive benefits because of the bureaucratic problems associated with that arrangement. It has therefore been decided to delete the necessity for prior approval. However, patients will be required to lodge their applications within  6  months of the date of referral. The Act presently provides that financial assistance will be automatically approved for an adult person to accompany patients under the age of 14 years. In view of the obvious difficulties which can be experienced by young people travelling alone to capital cities, this Bill will raise this age limit from 14 years to 17 years. 
The Government also proposes to make the scheme available to a greater number of people living outside metropolitan areas. The existing isolated areas are those local government areas having 50 per cent or more of their population at least 200 kilometres from the general post offices in the capital cities or the central post office of cities with a population of over 100,000. This has caused some difficulty where the required specialist treatment is available only in certain capital cities. For example, some patients with particular difficulties, such as spina bifida, who lived within 200 kilometres of cities with a population of over 100,000 were not eligible even though the required medical specialty was not available in those cities. It is proposed that nonisolated areas will be restricted to the metropolitan areas of the mainland capital cities other than Darwin and Canberra. 
This also means, as the honourable member would be pleased to know, that the residents of Tasmania will be eligible where the specialty is not available in Hobart or Launceston and they need to travel to Melbourne. The requirement that applicants travel at least 200 kilometres for treatment- with the exception of residents of certain off-shore islands, as previously mentioned- will remain. 
The Government believes that the proposed changes will enhance an already excellent scheme which has been of considerable help to persons living in isloated areas. The changes that I have foreshadowed tonight will remove some of the red tape which has been associated with the scheme and will ensure that the scheme is directed at those for whom it was originally intended. The remaining provisions of the Bill are technical amendments which enable committees established under section 136 of the National Health Act to consider matters relevant to the Health Insurance Act and an amendment consequential upon the amendment made in clause 9 to section 73  BE.  It is with pleasure that I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Over the last 30 years there have been considerable advances in the ability to diagnose genetic disorders and birth abnormalities and, concurrently, in the understanding of them. Consequently, there have been considerable changes over this period in terminology of, and in statistical classification of, these diseases. There have also been considerable advances in treatment which in turn have meant that many infants who formerly died now survive and that those who still die do so at later ages than formerly. 
The only information from which incidence might be inferred, over all but the last few years of the period referred to in the question, is statistics of neonatal death. However, for the reasons given above, it would not be possible to answer the honourable member's question without a detailed examination of how each of these factors might have influenced available statistics relating to each individual genetic disorder or birth abnormality. Resources to undertake this task are not yet available. 
On 24 November 1978 I announced in Parliament that the Government was prepared to share with the States the costs of perinatal statistical collections that will provide much better information than has been available to date. I also announced the availability of funds for a National Perinatal Statistics Unit, a major role of which would be to examine these statistics. Applications for the Unit have been received and are being assessed. 

 Mr Renzo di Piramo (Question No. 3534) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Chairman: 
Professor L. Davidson, Principal, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, N.S.W. 
Employers: 
Mining and Milling-Mr H. Robinson, Chrysotile Corporation of Australia Pry Ltd, N.S.W. 
Manufacturers-  Mr C.  Russell, James Hardie and Coy Pty Ltd N.S.W. 
Industry/Manufacturers-  Mr 1.  Crawford, BendixMintex (Melbourne). 
Construction-  Mr E.  Morris, Morris Building Company, Smithfield, N.S.W. 
Australian Council of Trade Unions: 

 Mr C. Oliver, Australian Workers' Union (New South Wales Branch). 

 Mr J. Baird, Amalgamated Metal Workers' and Shipwrights' Union, N.S.W. 

 Mr 
 i. Sheather, Building Workers' Industry Union of Australia, N.S.W. 

 Mr C. Raper, Federal Miscellaneous Workers' Union of Australia (New South Wales Branch). 
Government: 

 Mr B. Virgona,  Chairman,  Workers' Compensation and Dust Diseases Board, N.S.W. 

 Dr J. McNulty, Commissioner of Public Health, Western Australian Department of Public Health. 

 Dr J. Milne, Division of Industrial Hygiene, Victorian Health Commission. 

 Mr G. Major, Physicist, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, N.S.W. 

 Dr N. Mitchell, (Secretary /Convener) Medical Services Adviser- Occupational Health, Commonwealth Department of Health. 
A number of State Ministers have made such statements for their own political reasons and they are obviously designed to create panic. I said in my statement in the Parliament on Thursday night- and I repeat- the form of the inquiry has yet to be determined after discussions with the States. I hope that it will be a royal commission into the administration of hospitals. I stated: 
The Government would wish that its contribution to operating costs of public hospitals for the 1979-80 financial year be held at the 1978-79 levels. I recognise that this constraint may have widespread effects on some States' hospital systems. Early discussions between the Commonwealth and the States will look at this aspect. The Commonwealth will be seeking the participation and co-operation of the States to ensure that an inquiry will be fully successful in making recommendations to improve the efficiency of the hospital system. 
The purpose of the discussions with the State Ministers on 8 June will be to ascertain the level at which we should hold hospital costs without causing widespread difficulty and without reducing the level of services. We do not want to close hospitals down before there is a royal commission. That is what a royal commission is all about. We are seeking to achieve rationalisation in the hospital system. We are not in the process of taking some arbitrary decision to close one hospital or another. There are State governments that are battling with their consciences about excess bed capacity. Ultimately they will have to close some hospitals here and there. In the meantime, if they can blame the Commonwealth Government for the hard decision that they will have to take at some future date, that is a plus to them. Let us understand the motivations for some of the statements which have been made by some State Ministers such as  Mr Barnard-  a whole pack of them. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Of the $2. 1 million allocated to Victoria over the 3 year period for the Family Support Services Scheme, a total of $1,416,389 has been approved, covering the funding of service projects in the first and second years of the Scheme and specific amounts for evaluation in each of the three years. 
The organisations approved for funding and the Federal electoral divisions are set out in the attached schedule. 
The grants have been publicised as being provided by the Commonwealth. The approvals have been the subject of joint press releases by the Minister for Social Security and the former Victorian Minister for Community Welfare Services, the  Hon.  B. J. Dixon, M.L.A. In addition, the Minister for Social Security wrote to all Federal Senators and to appropriate honourable Members on 28 December 1978, advising them of those projects approved for support under the Scheme 's second year of operation. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) It is not possible to estimate with accuracy the additional cost of paying an income tested age pension to men aged 60 to 64 years because of the lack of data on their income distribution. In addition, it is not known what effect the lowering of the pensionable age would have on workforce participation rates of men aged 60 to 64 years. The possible impact on the employment of younger people currently in receipt of unemployment benefit consequent upon any reduction in the workforce participation of men aged 60 to 64 years is also not known. 
It is expected, however, that substantial additional costs would be involved. The estimated cost of paying an income test free pension to all men from age 60 gives some indication of the order of magnitude of the maximum gross costs which could be involved in lowering the pensionable age for men from 65 to 60. 
The additional cost of paying an income test free pension to all of the 275,000 residentially qualified men aged 60 to 64 years would be about $450m in a full year. This cost is additional to the estimated $220m annual cost of existing payments to some 95,000 male invalid and repatriation service pensioners and unemployment and sickness beneficiaries aged 60 to 64 years. These costs are based on the estimated number of persons, pensioners and beneficiaries as at December 1978 and pension rates applicable from November 1978. The costs are gross costs in that they make no allowance for the additional revenue that would result from the inclusion of the payments in income for the purpose of income tax. 
The actual gross costs that would be involved in lowering the pensionable age for men from 65 to 60 could be expected to be somewhat lower than the maximum cost set out above, particularly in the short-term since many older people would have already planned their retirement on the basis of age pension eligibility at age 65. It is noted that the following estimated proportions of men aged 65 to 69 are currently in receipt of an age or repatriation service pensions. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following recommendations of the Myers Inquiry into Unemployment Benefit Policy and Administration of July 1977 which have direct relevance to the Department of Social Security have been implemented in full orin part:  5,9, II, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19,21,22,23,25,27,29,31, 32,33,35,36 and 37. 
Many recommendations have no direct relevance to the Department of Social Security and in some cases the general procedures have been improved to the extent that the specific recommendations are no longer appropriate. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
On 27 April 1979 I wrote to the Association advising that they would be funded under the Children's Services Program as follows: 
a capital grant of $25,000 for renovation of the Association's existing premises at the Fig-Tree Pocket State School, Queensland; 
recurrent grants of $50,000 for four specialist staff; and 
a capital grant of approximately $130,000 (plus professional fees and other associated costs) to enable the Association to construct a new centre on land to be leased from the Queensland State Department  of  Education at Fig-Tree Pocket. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. However the honourable member should be aware that the report on which this opinion was based has been criticised by other cancer researchers. 
No. This is primarily a matter for State Governments. To assist them in this matter, the National Health and Medical Research Council in 1978 approved Model Carcinogenic Substances Regulations and recommended that they be adopted by the States. 
(a) No. 
Occupation is recorded in the Western Australian (current collection started in 1971) and Tasmanian (since 1978) Cancer Registries. The occupation of the main income earner is recorded in the Tasmanian perinatal statistics collection (since 1974). 
1 am not aware of any such records kept by other Government authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The reports referred to a bioassay of toxaphene for possible carcinogenicity conducted for the Carcinogenesis Testing Program, Division of Cancer Cause and Prevention, National Cancer Institute (NCI), National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA. It was concluded that under the conditions of the bioassay, toxaphene was carcinogenic in male and female mice used in the study, causing increased incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas. The results also suggested carcinogenesis for the thyroid of male and female rats used in the study. It is relevant to quote the forward of the report: 
Positive results demonstrate that the test chemical is carcinogenic for animals under the conditions of the test and indicate that exposure to the chemical is a potential risk to man. The actual determination of the risk to man from chemicals found to be carcinogenic in animals requires a wider analysis.' 
Yes; it is used in combination with DDT to control Heliothis which is resistant to DDT alone. However, this use is declining steadily and should continue to do so as suitable alternatives become available. 
In Australia the name 'toxaphene' is the trade name of a proprietary product, the favoured common name of the chemical in Australia being camphechlor. This chemical has been used for insecticidal purposes for over 30 years and its use world-wide is considerable. However, I am unable to say whether it is the largest selling and oldest product of its kind. 
5 ) Products containing camphechlor for use on cotton are marketed in Australia by the following firms: 
C. Hatrick Chemicals Pty Ltd, 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) (a) The States and Territories in Australia have the ultimate responsibility for the formal approval for the use and sale of new synthetic chemicals. The Commonwealth and National Health and Medical Research Council (N.H. and M.R.C.) play a co-ordinating role in making recommendations to the States and Territories concerning: 
scheduling of chemicals in the uniform poisons standard; 
recommendations for maximum residue limits for pesticides, agriculture chemicals, veterinary medicines and feed additives; 
recommendations for the assessment of all food additives and food contaminants in Australia. 
In addition, my Department is involved in the following areas which also pertain to synthetic chemicals: 
the approval for importation of pharmaceutical preparations including radiopharmaceuticals; 
importation of drugs of dependence; 
importation of biological products. 
The legislation concerned with these activities of the Department include the Therapeutic Goods Act, the Quarantine Act and the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations. 
Provision for the control of new synthetic chemicals varies among States and Territories but the following are the types of legislation that apply: 
Poisons 
Registration of Pesticides and Stock Medicines 
Health Acts 
Flammable Liquids 
Weights and Measures 
Shops and Factories 
Aerial Spraying Control 
Pollution Control 
Environmental Protection 
Clean Waters 
Occupational Health 
Workers Compensation 
Pest Control Operations 
Clean Air 
Air Navigation 
Public Health 
Pure Food 
(a) The Australian Environment Council, a consultative body of Commonwealth, State and Territory Ministers with responsibilities for environmental matters, has established a National Advisory Committee on Chemicals (NACC) consisting of representatives from the Commonwealth, States, Territories, N.H. and M.R.C. and the Australian Agricultural Council. This Committee has established a work programme for the identification, assessment and control of environmentally hazardous chemicals. The Committee has recommended the establishment of a national register of chemicals. A notification and assessment scheme for all new chemicals entering the Australian market is to be established. To assist in its work the Committee has established an Industry Liaison Sub-committee with representatives from the major chemical industry bodies. 
Expert committees of the N.H. and M.R.C. assess the potential adverse effects on human health of new chemicals. These Committees include: 
Food Standards Committee and the Food Science and Technology Subcommittee 
Occupational Health Committee 
Poisons Schedule Committee 
Pesticides and Agricultural Chemicals Subcommittee. 
These Committees may seek advice from other expert Committees of Council. In addition committees at State and Territory level assess these effects. Extensive toxicological data are studied in such assessments. Such data would include: 
acute, short-term and long-term studies in laboratory animals; 
studies on carcinogenesis, mutagenesis teratogenesis in animals; 
information on the mode of action of the chemicals; 
metabolism studies; 
residue levels of the chemical in food; 
analytical studies; 
effects of occupational exposure; 
human toxicity data if available. 
In addition, surveys have been carried out by the N.H. and M.R.C. since 1970 of noxious substances, including chemicals, in the Australian diet. 
On a global basis, liaison has been established with the following international bodies dealing with chemicals: 
World Health Organization 
Food and Agriculture Organization 
Codex Alimentarius Commission 
British Industrial Biological Research Association 
Organization for Economic and Co-operative 
Development. 
Also, a continuing review is undertaken of the scientific literature and of legislation dealing with chemicals in other countries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The proportion of deaths due to cancer is gradually increasing as the population ages. The latest available statistics show that cancer caused 17.9 per cent of deaths in 1977. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council (N.H. and M.R.C.) this year is supporting fourteen projects directly related to cancer at a cost of over $21 1,000. In addition the N.H. and M.R.C. is providing the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research in Melbourne, with a grant exceeding $1.8m, a high proportion of which will be directed into cancer research. 
International co-operation is maintained with most countries, particularly the United States of America and Great Britain, through regular visits both to and from Australia by leading scientists for conference and collaborative work and by researchers. There is ready exchange of publications, information and expertise. 
There have been continuing advances across a wide spectrum of treatments of all varieties of cancer so that marginal gains are constantly being made. In recent years there have been substantial advances in the treatment of the leukaemias and the lymphomas. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The proportion of age pensioners not eligible for fringe benefits has increased from 20.8 per cent in June 1 975 to 22.8 per cent in June 1978. The figure of 17.5 per cent published in the Department's Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 1 975 was subsequently revised. 
There are several factors that could have affected the variation in the proportion of age pensioners without fringe benefits during this period. However, none of these can be quantified and thus they cannot be ranked according to their importance. 
One of the more significant factors was the introduction of means test free age pensions for persons aged 70-74 years from 19 May 1975, the effect of which had not been fully felt by 30 June 1975. Persons who became pensioners because of this legislative change would not be eligible for fringe benefits and would therefore increase the proportion not eligible for fringe benefits in the years after 1975. 
Another reason for the increased proportion of age pensioners without fringe benefits is the fact that the nonpension income limits for fringe benefits remained constant between 1975 and 1978 whereas the income limits for payment of part pension have increased with each increase in pension rates, allowing new grants of pensions above the fringe benefit limits. Also the income of some existing pensioners could have increased above the fringe benefit limits during the above period thus disqualifying them from the entitlement to fringe benefits. 
The proportion of invalid pensioners without fringe benefits increased from 8.4 per cent in June 1975 to 9.6 per cent in June 1978. Again, it is not possible to list all the factors responsible for this increase nor is it possible to quantify them. However, it is thought that the increase in the income limits for payment of pensions was one of the factors for the increase in the proportion of invalid pensioners without fringe benefits. 
No. There has been no change in the rates of pensions and benefits since the dates indicated. Changing rates are matters of Government policy. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) (a) one, (b) thirty-seven. 
State Headquarters, 34-36 Carrington Street, Sydney (a) 1, (b) 198. State Headquarters, 50 Carrington Street, Sydney (a) 19, (b) 852. State Headquarters, 1 17 Clarence Street, Sydney (a) 5, (b) 346. State Headquarters, Skandia House, 220 George Street, Sydney (a) nil, (b) 30. Appeals Tribunal, 36-38 Clarence Street, Sydney (a) nil, ( b) 5. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The number of prosecutions launched under the Social Services Act against persons receiving unemployment benefit in Australia in each year since 1975, and the number of successful prosecutions are shown in the table below: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The application relating to a 25-bed hostel from the Mount View Homes for Aged Persons, Booleroo Centre, is one of more than 1 , 000 outstanding applications for Government assistance under the aged persons' accommodation program. 
Not all these projects can be funded in the short term and, therefore, the selection of projects to be subsidised will be based on a rigorous assessment of need. 
The 25-bed hostel project at Booleroo Centre will be reconsidered together with all outstanding applications in the context of future allocations of Government funds for the aged persons' accommodation program. 
M. Ramsey Homes for the Aged (Question No. 3952) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My department has on record over 1 , 000 outstanding applications for Government assistance under the aged persons' accommodation program, including an application for the funding of a facilities block in the A. M. Ramsey Homes for the Aged at Port Augusta. Not all of these projects will be able to be funded in the short term and, therefore, the selection of projects to be subsidised will be based on a rigorous assessment of need. 
The proposal in relation to the A. M. Ramsey Homes for the Aged will be considered together with all outstanding applications in the context of future allocations of Government funds for the aged persons ' accommodation program. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The limits were frozen by the Whitlam Government on: 
26September1973. 
Yes. 
Based on the increase in the Consumer Price Index from the September quarter 1 973 to the March quarter 1 979, these limits would now be $62 for a single person, $ 108 for a married couple. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) In order to qualify for an unemployment benefit under the provisions of the Social Services Act, a person is interalia required to satisfy the Director-General that he 'is capable of undertaking and is willing to undertake, work which, in the opinion of the Director-General, is suitable to be undertaken by that person'. An unemployable person would not be able to satisfy these conditions and, therefore, would not be eligible to receive unemployment benefit. The circumstances of all beneficiaries including those who have received benefit for extended periods are periodically reviewed. Benefit is terminated in cases in which the eligibility conditions are not fulfilled. 
Persons ineligible for continuation of unemployment benefit may qualify for invalid pension, sickness benefit, widow's pension or supporting parent's benefit, subject to the usual conditions. Eligibility for a pension or alternative benefit and the date on which payment would commence would depend upon the circumstances of each individual case. 
Homes for the Aged (Question No. 3847) 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The following table lists the names and localities of organisations in the Electoral Division of Grey which have applied for funding for the provision of homes for the aged under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act and shows the amount of assistance received by each organisation. 
Those organisations which have received assistance under the Act during the last 4 years are marked with an asterisk. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of pharmaceutical benefits per head of population are as follows: 
I am aware of the great differences that apply from State to State in regard to the net operating costs of hospitals. I have some later figures that do not quite put Queensland in the light that the honourable member put it. Nonetheless, I do pay credit to Queensland for having kept its net hospital operating costs down to relatively lower levels. Of course, any inquiry into the hospital system that has the wide-ranging terms of reference to which we hope the States will agree undoubtedly would be seeking to ascertain why there is such a discrepancy between the various States and undoubtedly would come up with findings that would tend to try to translate the best features of the administration of one State into a total approach to achieve more efficiency and rationalisation in this very costly area of administration. 
I have obtained some figures, and I have them with me this morning. The net operating costs per occupied bed day for 1979-80 in each of the States are estimated to be as follows: For New South Wales $119.33; for Victoria $142.28; for Queensland $124.82; for South Australia $140.54; for Western Australia $158.25; for Tasmania $155.05; for the Australian Capital Territory $167.32; for the Northern Territory $226.20; the total average for the Commonwealth being $154. I think that people listening - 
Would the Minister like them repeated? I will give the figures to him by letter. 
The Treasurer would also like a copy. What concerns the Government, and undoubtedly it would concern the Australian people, is that we have had this tremendous increase in the net operating costs of hospitals throughout Australia. When honourable members consider that throughout Australia the average net operating cost of every bed is $ 154 a day, I am sure they will appreciate that it is absolutely essential that an inquiry be held into why these costs have been escalating at such a rate. 
I think it is very important to ensure that we achieve the best efficiencies possible in the hospitals administration area. It is also important to ensure that we get the best value for the dollar spent in health care because, quite clearly, the taxpayers, the community generally, are picking up the bill. Health costs are going to be paid for by one means or another. People are going to pay for them either through the taxation system or through contribution rates to health insurance funds, or they are going to pay for them out of their pockets. They will pay for them by one means or another. No one will escape the bill, except those who are disadvantaged and those who have pensioner health benefit cards. Of course, those people are entitled to free hospital and medical care. Indeed, all people are entitled to hospital accommodation at no cost to themselves, if they do not wish to have a doctor of their choice treating them in the hospital. 
However, to come to the point of the honourable gentleman's question, which related to administration, from advice I have received I believe that Queensland has exercised tight centralised control over its hospital system. The Queensland Department of Health has exercised positive management and budgetary control over hospitals. For example, it has a centralised purchasing system for its hospitals. The hospitals are staffed according to bed occupancy rates; this does not apply in all the States. Queensland certainly appears to have a cheaper administrative system. The specialists working in those hospitals are paid sessional payments. 
The paper to which the honourable member refers is of course a discussion paper. The Government has not committed itself to that paper at this stage. Initially it was released as a discussion paper to the States on a confidential basis to give the States a chance to examine the recommendations that were contained in that paper and to respond to them. Since then, of course, the paper has been tabled in the Parliament. It will provide a basis for general debate and discussion presumably both inside and outside this Parliament. I have no doubt that the inquiry that will be undertaken into the hospital system in Australia will take into account many of the points that have been raised in that discussion paper. Quite clearly, in any review of the hospital system of Australia it would be quite wrong to ignore the private hospital sector, because we are talking about the availability of resources, the availability of beds to the community as a whole. 
I firmly believe, however, that it would be very foolish of this Government or of any other government to ignore the importance of the provision of private resources in any hospital or any health area in this country or in any country with a similar economy. If, for instance, action were taken to diminish the role of private hospitals or of those people who are investing money in nursing homes or other facilities for the care of the aged, or those who are ill, the difference would have to be made up by the Government or by the taxpayers of Australia. Most people will agree that taxes are high enough. If the Government were to adopt a deliberate policy of forcing the private sector out of the area of health care or care for the aged it would be a gross mistake- for this Government or any other government. If by some mischance a Labor government should ever get back into office in this country one would hope that it would not be stupid enough to attack the private hospital sector or the private nursing home sector at the expense of the Australian community. The Labor Party, when in government, tried to do that once before. Much to its sorrow it found it could not increase its taxes sufficiently to provide services from the public purse. The Government will be taking into account the desirability or otherwise of allowing an unbridled expansion of the private sector while at the same time we are controlling the public sector. What we need is a proper balance and availability of resources to care properly for those in need, but at the same time we must make sure that we get the best value for the dollar spent in health care in this country. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, for the benefit of the House I wish to clarify the position in respect of a question asked earlier by the honourable member for Fadden. The honourable member cited figures for Queensland that were taken from a discussion paper on rationalisation tabled in this place. In 1 977-78 the daily gross operating cost per occupied bed for the State of Queensland was $111, as the honourable member said. The figures that I gave were the estimated net operating costs per occupied bed for the year 1979-80, and for Queensland the figure is $124.82, as I said in my answer. The honourable member used figures that are in fact two years old, and those figures were compiled on a different basis. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)1 understand that in September 1 978 the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare (DHEW) began an extensive campaign to promote the seeking of second opinions before surgery, particularly for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. DHEW, through its regional offices, is identifying local organisations such as Professional Standards Review Organisations, Medicare carriers or medical societies who might develop and maintain lists of doctors willing to provide such second opinions. 
I am aware that a number of schemes requiring second opinions for non-emergency surgery have already been implemented in the United States. However, there are differing views on whether such schemes provide overall cost savings and whether they represent the best way of regulating discretionary surgery. Nonetheless, the Government is firm in its commitment to contain health care costs and officers from my Department are examining various cost saving measures in this field, including information programs, with a view to discussing their applicability with appropriate health authorities and others responsible for health care delivery. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the National Health Amendment Bill 1 979 and the motion to take note of the papers on health care costs, as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills and the motion at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the two Bills and the motion to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I did notice the alleged statements of  Sir William  Knox in this morning's  Courier-Mail.  I was surprised to read in the  Courier-Mail  that  Sir William  Knox is contemplating not co-operating with the Commonwealth in a public inquiry into hospitals throughout the Commonwealth. I have noted also that the New South Wales Minister for Health has publicly indicated his lack of support for such an inquiry. To me that seems a quite extraordinary reaction by Ministers who have a responsibility to taxpayers to get best value for the dollars spent in health care. With the South Australian inquiry by the Public Accounts Committee and with the ever rising costs of health and hospital care, one would have thought the State Ministers would have welcomed such an inquiry, particularly knowing that many of them will have to make some unpopular decisions where they have excess beds in certain parts of their inner metropolitan areas. 
I find it very difficult to understand why any Health Minister should act in this way. They have a responsibility to the taxpayers of Australia as has any Commonwealth Minister of this Parliament. I would expect them to adopt a responsible attitude. It is true that hospital costs account for nearly 60 per cent of Commonwealth outlays. When I say 'Commonwealth outlays', I mean outlays that have been taken from taxpayers and spent in this manner. It is true that the net occupied bed-day cost is of the order of $ 1 54 at the present time. I acknowledge that the Government has done a lot to curb the rate of acceleration in hospital costs. When we first came to office as a government hospital costs were increasing at the rate of about 40 per cent per annum. Since then, we have reduced it very considerably to a figure slightly in excess of 10 per cent. There are indications from reports that come to us that there is a great opportunity for improving efficiency and productivity in the hospital sector. I would appeal to State Ministers and State governments generally to co-operate with the Commonwealth Government to allow for a full, frank and open inquiry into hospital administration throughout the Commonwealth. I would hope that we would have an interim report by the end of February so that the Commonwealth will be in a better position to negotiate with the States for Commonwealth-State hospitals agreements which fall due about 30 June next year. 
The Opposition has accused the Government of having no policy on health programs. The Australian Labor Party has had 18 months in which to announce its policy in respect of health insurance, and the silence has been deafening. The Australian Labor Party has not officially announced its policy in respect of health insurance, yet tonight we have heard four possibilities in that regard from members of the Opposition. 
The honourable member for Murray says that there were five policies. Well, certainly four policies were announced and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  went further than most and suggested that if the Labor Party were returned to office it would restore Medibank, which would cost the Australian taxpayers no less than $500m on present day costs. Then there was some talk about the community health program. This Government was accused of having reduced the funding for community health, in association with the States, from 90 per cent to 50 per cent. I pose the question: Should the Labor Party ever get back into office, will it restore the funding in association with the States to 90 per cent of the community health program? So let us not beat about the mulberry bush. Let us be fair and frank about it. I would be delighted to know what is the Labor Party's policy in respect of health insurance. Quite clearly, if we were to go back to the universal-type Medibank cover, that would be a great way in which to dissipate the resources of both the high income people and the low income people alike. 1 do not believe that that is either necessary or equitable. If one wants to achieve equity, one achieves it for sure through the taxation system. But I do not see why a universial health insurance system virtually has to hand on a silver platter to every member of the community free health services. 
The Hospitals Corporation of Australia, which was alluded to by the honourable member for Cunningham, is building a private hospital in the honourable member's electorate, which happens to be in the State of New South Wales. The Corporation is doing so with the concurrence of  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales.  Mr Wran  happens to be the leader of the Labor Party in New South Wales, and I suggest that he has the power to control private hospitals in his State. If  Mr Wran  exercises that power and encourages the Hospitals Corporation of Australia to embark on building new hospitals in the electorate of the honourable member for Cunningham, the honourable member should riot blame the Commonwealth Government for it. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  complained about hospital patient contributions but he supports the concept of patients making a contribution towards their board and lodging in a nursing home. Indeed, while the Australian Labor Party was in government it strongly supported the patient contribution to board and lodging, even to the extent where it reduced the amount that a patient in a nursing home could retain from the patients' own pension, from $6 to $4 a week. Yet the Labor Party talks about equity. What sort of equity was that? Since we came to office we have acted to provide patients with a new arrangement so that they will retain no less than 12'/4 per cent of their pensions for their own personal use. That has been done by Act of Parliament. So it is nonsense to suggest that as from 1 July, for the first time since Federation, public hospitals will charge pensioners. Indeed, for some time now, some public hospitals have declared part of their hospitals as nursing homes or as geriatric units. 
Debate interrupted. 
For some time now some public hospitals throughout Australia have, in fact, designated part of their hospitals as nursing homes or geriatric units. The policy is presently in progress but the Government will make that policy universal. The rationalisation of hospital facilities cannot be fulfilled without designating beds and facilities for geriatric or nursing home care. I have good reason to believe that the States generally support that policy. The use of hospital facilities where there are unused facilities, particularly in country areas, for the care of nursing home patients makes good sense. Country hospitals will continue to be viable both on financial and health grounds. This legislation will help to retain country hospitals in spite of the rationalisation proposals that are being investigated. It will help to reduce the costs of operating public hospitals in the longer term. Hospitals that readjust their systems to cope with nursing home patients instead of having acute patient staff ratios as at present will be rationalising their cost benefit ratios. 
It is unfortunate that the Government has found it necessary to make a number of adjustments to the structure of the health insurance system. To put the record straight for the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  there have been two major changes to the structure of the health insurance system and two minor changes- not five as he indicated. However, the Government inherited an expensive open-ended universal health insurance system, extremely benevolent to the rich and low income earners alike. It proved to be a bonanza for the health providers and the medical practitioners, to the pathology and diagnostic laboratories. No government- not even a socialist governmentcould have continued to fund such an expensive scheme without increasingly taxing the people with impunity. Members of the Opposition when in government achieved universal cover, but at great cost. One cannot blame them at this stage for sitting like mutes and not announcing what their policy might be. It is very easy to criticise. 
-I move: 
After clause 8, page 5, insert the following new clause: 8a. ( 1 ) Section 58e of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from paragraph (b) of sub-section (1) sixty-five' and substituting' 16'; 
by omitting from paragraph (b) of sub-section (3) sixty-five' and substituting' 16'; 
by inserting after sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (c) of sub-section (3 ) the following sub-paragraph: (iiia) is a child (including a step-child, foster-child or ex-nuptial child) of the applicant or a child (including a step-child, foster-child or exnuptial child) of such a child or a niece or nephew of the applicant; '; and 
by inserting after sub-section (3) the following sub-section: (3a) A reference in sub-paragraph (iii), (iiia) or (iv) of paragraph (c) of sub-section (3) to a relationship between persons shall be read as including a relationship that exists by reason of adoption.'. (2)Where- 
an approval under sub-section 58e (3) of the  National Health Act  1953 is given after the commencement of this section; and 
the approval relates to a patient who, at the time when the approval is given- 
has not attained the age of 65 years; or 
is a person whose relationship with the applicant is a relationship referred to in sub-paragraph 58e (3 ) (c) (iiia) of the  National Health Act  1 953, the date specified in the approval as the date on which the approval is to take effect shall not be a date earlier than 1 November 1979. 
The amendment I have moved concerns the extension of eligibility for the domiciliary nursing care benefit. The benefit was introduced early in 1973 to provide a viable alternative to nursing home care to those people who choose to care for patients in the comfort and familiar surroundings of their homes. The benefit was designed to help meet the additional costs involved in maintaining nursing home-type patients at home and charges for services were" raised. The Government is convinced that the operation of the scheme over the past six years in relation to geriatric patients has demonstrated the value of people providing care to the chronically ill and infirm. 
The Government has now recognised the significant contribution made by the people concerned towards the welfare of younger patients with similar long term nursing care by extending the eligibility for the domiciliary care benefit for eligible patients over 16 years of age. The benefit of $2 day is presently restricted to people caring for patients aged 65 years or more. The amendment to the Bill before the Committee implements this Government initiative. The benefit under the expanded eligibility criteria will be payable from 1 November 1979. Of course persons will be able to apply before that date and have their applications processed by my Department to ensure that the benefit is payable from 1 November. 
The Government's intention will be to provide a cash benefit to all people who choose to care for their chronically ill or infirm relatives at home irrspective of the age of the patient. This is provided either by way of the handicapped child 's allowance payable to a mother or guardian to help meet the exceptional costs of bringing up a severely or substantially handicapped child up to 16 years of age, up to 25 years of age if a full time student or by the domiciliary nursing care benefit payable to a person who provides adequate nursing or other care to an older child or adult in his or her home. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The National Health and Medical Research Council, (NH &amp; MRC) the national advisory body on health matters, has, through relevant Committees of Council, been investigating this complex issue of the health effects from ambient air pollution since the early 1970s. 
The NH &amp; MRC has approved recommendations limiting noxious gaseous and particulate emissions from fixed sources (industrial emissions) and from mobile sources such as motor vehicles, and has made recommendations on the restriction of the lead content of petrol. It has also approved guidelines for hygienic standards in the atmosphere of the workplace. 
(a) Photochemical pollution is, in general terms, the result  of  the reaction of sunlight with hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen. In urban areas, a considerable proportion of these hydrocarbons as well as oxides of nitrogen come from emissions from passenger cars. Among various atmospheric pollutants of potential health concern, ozone has been widely considered both in Australia and overseas: its levels can be taken as being representative of oxidant levels as a whole. 
Ozone does have certain adverse health effects depending on its concentration in the ambient air. Such health effects may include irritation of the eyes, nose, throat and lungs and discomfort associated with breathing. Although ozone levels of 0.2-0.4 parts per million are usually reached before symptoms are experienced, less severe effects have been attributed to lower concentrations. 
Attempts to relate the onset of specific health effects to varying levels of ozone in the atmosphere have been made but the difficulty of associating a particular health effect to a specific air pollutant is immense. The World Health Organisation (WHO) long term goal, of 0.06 parts per million for ozone, is, as stated, a long term goal, not to be seen as a level capable of immediate achievement, particularly in the city environment. This goal is more stringent than the prescribed levels that have been adopted by some countries as a basis for legislation. As Minister for Health it is my responsibility to ensure that any association between health incidence and photochemical pollution are adequately researched. 
Carbon monoxide is an asphyxiant gas that lowers the capacity of the blood to transport oxygen from the lungs to the tissues of the body. This happens because carbon monoxide combines with haemoglobin, in the red blood corpuscles, to form carboxyhaemoglobin. 
Carbon monoxide can effect psychomotor function e.g. lassitude and headache are reported when an equilibrium level of 10 per cent carboxyhaemoglobin is reached following exposure to 60 parts per million of carbon monoxide for over eight hours. Chronic effects are believed to include damage to the cardio-vascular system. Animal experiments indicate that the observed relationship between cardiovascular disease and cigarette smoking, (which raises carboxyhaemoglobin levels), may well be explained in terms of the chronic or repeated exposure to the carbon monoxide. 
According to WHO the ambient air carbon monoxide concentrations required to reach a 4 per cent carboxyhaemoglobin level in blood, in one, eight and 24 hours are 100, 30 and 25 parts per million respectively. 
(a) There is no established incidence in Sydney of disease caused by oxidants or carbon monoxide as general environmental pollutants. A recent survey by  Dr Gibson  of the Australian National University, however, suggests an association between air pollution in Sydney and below average lung functions. 
There are no generally accepted figures in Melbourne indicating the incidence of diseases caused by oxidants or carbon monoxide. 
As no relevant incidence has yet been established in Australia in any year, change is not quantifiable, nor, over a 30 year period, are there any relevant data. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
A difference in rates of progression of myopia of be tween 0.25d and 0.5d was observed by Oakley and Young over the period of their study. However, there is no evidence to show that the same differences would have been observed had the study been continued over a longer period. It is therefore inappropriate to multiply the differences in progression of myopia by any time interval in order to draw a conclusion. 
Yes. This possibility was admitted by Oakley and Young in their paper. 
(a) This is a matter for the Victorian College of Optometry and I am unable to comment. 
While it is true that the ANZAAS Congress in Melbourne in 1977 rejected a paper by  Mr Brumer,  the paper offered to the ANZAAS Congress in Auckland in 1 979 was accepted and subsequently presented. 
This is a matter for the Australian Optometrical Association and I am unable to comment. 
Yes. 
I have previously stated (Hansard, 6 March 1979, page 676 ) this matter is best left to assessment by the peer review mechanism of the academic community. It is not one in which the Federal Government should participate. 
Experiments with Live Animals  (Question No. 3718) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My Department is continuing to collect and evaluate data on aspects of the LD50 determination including the evaluation of alternative methods. No indication can yet be given as to when a report of the findings will be available, but a considerable amount of material in relation to this has already been compiled and reviewed. 
and (6) The legislative requirements in relation to the LD50 test, both overseas and within Australia, are also being investigated by my Department. Decisions as to whether the present requirements for the test should be modified and whether new legislation and administrative changes should be made cannot be taken until all evaluations have been completed. 
and (5) Commonwealth Government instrumentalities, such as the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories and the National Biological Standards Laboratory, which have a need for laboratory animals, breed their own in order that high standards are maintained. Consequently, standards for breeders who supply animals to Government departments are, in general, not needed. 
-The Isolated Patients' Travel and Accommodation Assistance Scheme, known as IPTAAS, has, as the honourable member for Cowper indicated, been welcomed in country areas throughout Australia. The scheme is designed to assist people with the cost of travel and accommodation when they have to seek specialist medical attention that is not available to them locally and they have to travel more than 200 kilometres from their place of residence to seek such attention. 
There were some administrative difficulties with the scheme because of drafting problems. Hopefully they have now all been removed. The first anomaly related to residents of some offshore islands including Kangaroo Island, Bathurst Island, Melville Island, Elcho Island and also the Furneaux group of islands near Tasmania. All the residents of off-shore islands are now eligible to be assisted under this scheme regardless of whether they live 200 kilometres away from specialist medical attention. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)and(2) 1975-Nil. 1 976- One surveyHealth insurance changes: Completed in 1976, for which the Roy Morgan Research Centre Pty Ltd was paid $ 1 ,500. The purpose of the survey was to determine public awareness of forthcoming health insurance changes and to decide if further paid advertising was necessary. 1 977- Two surveys- 
Pharmacy earnings: A survey carried out in respect of the year 1977-78 by the Department, for the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements, to gather information on the cost of dispensing pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions. No companies or private individuals were commissioned. 
Stratified sample survey of Sydney: Completed but a report is not yet available; carried out by the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine to investigate value orientation and self-perceived morbidity of Sydneydwellers. No companies or private individuals were commissioned, although medical students at Sydney University acted as interviewers as pan of their training. 1 978- Six surveysPublications readership (two surveys): Both completed in 1978; to seek readers' views  of Animal Quarantine  magazine and  Health Journal,  and suggestions for improvement. No companies or private individuals were involved. 
National nursing manpower: Completed in 1978, although the final report is anticipated late 1979. Two companies were commissioned for very minor components of the survey- Automail, Sydney, sorted envelopes and was paid $18,773 and Crightons, Canberra, was paid $20,420 for punching data. The survey involved a questionnaire to nursing personnel to identify supply, distribution, utilisation and future requirements. 
Drug use in ACT: Completed in 1978; to determine use of drugs in the ACT, to establish a baseline and assist in the development of drug education programs. The Australian National University Survey Research Centre was paid $5,680 to carry out the survey. 

 Australian Prescriber- Value of publication: Completed in 1978, for which the Department of Community Medicine at Sydney University was paid $3,000. The purpose of the survey was to establish the position of  Australian Prescriber  in relation to other journals general practitioners receive. 
Limb reduction deformities: An ongoing survey carried out by the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine; to estimate frequency of deformities in NSW, and identify causation factors. No companies or private individuals are involved. 1979- One surveyDrug use in ACT: A current survey similar to that carried out in 1978; to establish trends in drug use and assist with drug education programs. The Australian National University Survey Research Centre is being paid $4,840 to carry out the task. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The surveys of both current and former employees of the Atomic Energy Research Establishment at Lucas Heights have commenced. 
The second report, referred to in the answer to question No. 3192, has been completed and was handed to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for printing on 2 April 1979. The third report will take the form of a series of research papers on particular problems revealed by analysis of the survey data. The work for these papers has already commenced and papers will be published from dme to time as each aspect is completed. 
The second report, entitled 'Interpretation of Hazard and Recommendations', analyses health indices such as sickness absence, workers' compensation, and premature retirement and death, together with an analysis of the work environment. It will also recommend toxicological and radiological health procedures for adoption by the Commission. 
A third report will deal with more detailed analyses of the occupational variation in biological variables shown in the first report. It will constitute the beginning of the continuing research program proposed in the second report. 
The second report was compiled largely by the Head, Depanment of Environmental and Occupational Health, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, aided by his Senior Physicist, Senior Chemist and secretariat. All computing work was carried out by the Commission. A Survey Advisory Committee, comprising three top level people in the field, was also consulted. Preparation of the third report which will take the form of a series of research papers in follow-up of some findings in the first report, will also be the responsibility of the Head of the Depanment of Environmental and Occupational Health. The second report contained a recommendation concerning employment of a research officer to assist the School in completing the papers that will constitute the third report and to conduct ongoing research. 
It is not possible to estimate the amount of Federal funds involved in the completion of the study. During the medical interview phase, a medical officer, a nurse and a clerical assistant were provided full-rime by the Commission. The cost of their employment was approximately $72,000 and in addition about $20,500 was paid for pathology and other services associated with the medical interviews. No special funds have been allocated since the completion of the medical interviews. On-going analysis and report preparation have involved, as part of their normal work, some officers of my Department and of the Commission. It is not possible to apportion these costs nor the costs involved in travel, literature reviews and other back-up work. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Special benefit. This benefit is granted at the same rate as and subject to the same income test as unemployment benefit. Cases are reviewed after 4 weeks residence in Australia. Steps are then taken to terminate special benefit or, if the refugee can meet the normal conditions of eligibility, special benefit may be continued or a more appropriate benefit granted. 
) This would vary according to the circumstances of particular cases and the different eligibility conditions which apply for the various benefits. As indicated above, after  4  weeks residence in Australia refugees are required to satisfy the conditions of eligibility which apply to members of the community generally. 
A 7 day waiting period is not applied for payment of special benefit and during the first 4 weeks after arrival in Australia the work test is not applied. 
No. 
-I do not think I need tell the honourable member for Murray that the Government strongly supports policies that are designed to minimise the high cost of institutional care. The Government's strategy generally is to encourage the development of policies that will minimise illness in the community. The prime aim of the health promotion campaign that will be launched in the next financial year will be to improve the quality of health of the Australian people. At the same time, the Government believes that it should give incentives to people to provide domiciliary care when it can provide a satisfactory alternative to high cost institutional care. It was in that context that the Government took the decision to reduce the age eligibility criterion for the benefit from 65 years of age to 16 years of age in the amendments to the National Health Act which were debated in this place only this week. However, the increase in the daily benefit will be a matter for Cabinet's 
Budget consideration. I cannot give any guarantees whatsoever. I know that the honourable member for Murray is a member of the Government parties health and welfare committee and that he has a very keen interest in ensuring that this policy is maintained and strengthened. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall the legislation introduced earlier this year to increase penalties for breaches of the Quarantine Act. This Bill now provides for the amendment of the Quarantine Act 1908 principally to enable compensation to be paid when it is necessary to destroy certain goods or animals in order to prevent the introduction or spread of disease, and to give to quarantine officers powers of entry and search in carrying out their duties. This legislation provides a comprehensive range of legislation to ensure that the quarantine service meets the needs of the times. It is an unfortunate fact that the successful eradication of exotic diseases introduced into this country involves, in many cases, the destruction of animals, plants and goods of innocent persons. In some instances this could result in a primary producer losing his entire stock through no fault of his own. I am sure honourable members would agree that a person who has suffered losses under such circumstances should be entitled to compensation. 

 A quorum having been called for and the bells being rung- 

For the information of honourable members I present three reports which complete the second stage of the evaluation of the Australian Assistance Plan. The reports are: 'From Vague Ideas to Unfeasible Roles', by  Dr L.  J. Tierney, Department of Social Studies, University of Melbourne; 'Australian Assistance Plan Evaluation Report No. 2 by  Dr A.  Graycar, School of Social Sciences, the Flinders University of South Australia; and 'Australian Assistance Plan in Tasmania: Report of the Second Evaluation', by  Mr J.  W. Ife, Department of Social Work, Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. The reports cover specific aspects of the implementation of the Australian Assistance Plan in Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia as well as the general issues of interest to people and groups involved in community development and social welfare programs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Social Services Act was amended on 10 November 1 977 to give the Director-General power to grant a handicapped child's allowance in respect of a substantially handicapped child as distinct from a severely handicapped child. The Act was further amended on 26 October 1978 to enable payment to be made in respect of full-time students aged between 16 and 25. A number of other minor changes were also made at that time. 
Yes. The allowance is available to parents or guardians of severely physically or mentally handicapped children who are living in the family home and who by reason of their disability require constant care and attention and are likely to need such care and attention permanently or for an extended period. The allowance may also be paid where parents or guardians care for substantially handicapped children in their family home and provide care and attention only marginally less than that required if the child were severely handicapped and who, as a result, experience severe financial hardship. 
A maximum payment of $65 a month may be made for substantially handicapped children. The rate of $65 a month applies in all cases where the allowance is granted for a severely handicapped child. 
Neither the Minister for Social Security nor any doctor has the legal authority to grant or refuse payment of a handicapped child 's allowance. The Director-General of the Department of Social Security, who has responsibility for assessing entitlements, may require the child to be medically examined or he may obtain medical advice from a legally qualified medical practitioner. This is usually a Commonwealth Medical Officer but specialists in private practice may be consulted in some cases. 
Yes. The Director-General has the discretion to set the rate of handicapped child 's allowance where the family is suffering hardship as a result of providing almost constant care and attention to a substantially handicapped child. I have been informed that in setting the rate the DirectorGeneral has regard to the family income, its relationship to the average minimum weekly wage, the size of the family and, of course, the special costs incurred in providing the required care. In such cases payments may not exceed $65 a month. 
Yes. 
In assessing entitlement to an allowance, and in particular in assessing the need for constant or almost constant, care and attention the Director-General and the medical practitioners from whom he seeks advice have regard to a number of factors including the extent to which the child relies on the claimant for the performance of everyday activities such as eating, dressing, bathing, ambulation, toileting and any other special activities such as therapy programmes. 
I must point out that the law is based on the need for constant or almost constant care and attention because of the handicap rather than on the severity of the medical condition. 
Each claim for handicapped child's allowance is treated on its merits and there is regular consultation between officers of my Department and Commonwealth Medical Officers involved in the scheme to ensure consistency of approach. 
The Department of Social Security has no information on the first part of the question. Where however the cost of care is involved in setting the rate, i.e. for a substantially handicapped child, any changes in the cost of care are taken into account. 
Telephone Booths  (Question Without Notice) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The draft resolution suspending Israel from the World Health Organization (WHO) was co-sponsored by 27 countries. The draft alleged that, by refusing to comply with World Health Assembly resolutions regarding the health conditions of the inhabitants of the occupied territories and because of certain of its actions in the occupied territories, Israel had 'breached the provisons and spirit of the World Health Organisation's Constitution'. The draft called for the voting rights and WHO services to Israel to be suspended until Israel complied with the resolutions of the Organization and relevant international conventions. 
b ) The draft resolution was not voted on at the Assembly. Following statements by a large number of countries regretting the politicization of specialised agencies such as WHO, Australia, Ghana and Fiji co-sponsored a resolution making the suspension of a member of WHO an 'important question' requiring a two-thirds majority. This resolution was adopted by an overwhelming majority of the Assembly. In the light of this result, the co-sponsors of the draft resolution came to an agreement with Israel, through intermediaries, that discussion of the item on the health conditions in the occupied territories, and the associated draft resolution suspending Israel, be postponed until the next World Health Assembly in 1980. This decision, which also called for a report by a committee of experts, was adopted by plenary session. 
Australia's assessed contribution to WHO in the 1978-79 fiscal year is $2,230,517. 
See 2(b). 
Emission Controls on Motor Vehicles  (Question No. 3972) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department, in conjunction with the Australian Medical Association, is at present reviewing the revised bulk billing arrangements now that they have been in operation for more than six months. I am expecting a full report on the matter in the near future and I would expect it to comment on such matters as cost and patient utilisation. In the meantime, the following information is available in answer to the honourable member's questions: 
1 ) (a) The cost to the Government of the bulk billing provisions applicable to persons classed as disadvantaged, in the period 1 November 1 978 to 30 April 1979 was $9.0m. 
The cost to the Government of the bulk billing provisions applicable to eligible pensioners in the same period was $60.8m. 
Statistics are not yet available on the number of persons receiving benefit in either of the above categories. However, I can provide the honourable member with particulars in respect of the number of services rendered to these persons. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
I do not believe it likely that alcohol presents any more, or any less, of a problem within my Department than in other Commonwealth Departments or in the community in general. 
The Director-General of Health, as the occupational health authority in respect of Commonwealth employees, issued a statement on Commonwealth Occupational Health Policy on Alcohol and Drug Dependence in November 1978. This statement supplements Guidelines for Handling Problems of Alcohol Misuse in the Australian Public Service, also issued in November 1978, by the Public Service Board. These Guidelines are intended to assist departments and authorities to develop policies and procedures in the identification and sympathetic and effective handling of staff affected by alcohol misuse. 
I see these initiatives as making a positive contribution to the management of problems associated with alcohol abuse within the Australian Public Service. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The delays can be attributed to a number of factors: 
Staffing. The two sections involved with requests for noise testing have a combined approved establishment of 1 3 positions. However, the staff ceiling applied to the Laboratory overall, following careful evaluation of laboratory priorities, has necessitated reductions in staffing to an effective level of 9 officers in these areas. Action is being taken to make two further officers available for this work. 
Complexity. The complexity of investigations of noise problems has increased. 
Increase in Requests. There has recently been an increase in requests for noise investigation, particularly due to a greater awareness of noise hazards. In many cases an organisation which requests an investigation is made aware that such investigations can only be completed as resources permit. Occasionally some requests are given priority. Currently the estimation of noise levels on RAAF bases is a priority so as to assist the Department of Defence to meet its deadlines. 
Consultancy. The necessary provision of an acoustical consultancy for the new NAL/Ultrasonics Institute Laboratory Building is placing additional pressure on the noise section of the NAL central laboratory. 
As at 21 May 1979 the following projects remain uncompleted: 
Department of Defence- Hearing conservation surveys RAAF Bases- Edinburgh, East Sale, Laverton, Amberley, Townsville, Butterworth, Richmond, Fairbairn, Wagga Wagga and depots at Kingswood, Regents Park and Villawood. . 
Department of Defence- Estimates of aircraft noise for building siting and design at RAAF Bases- Pearce, East Sale, Richmond and N.A.S. Nowra. 
Department of Defence- Environmental noise, Holsworthy. 
Australian Army- Environmental noise from Hornsby Rifle Range. 
Department of Defence- Noise survey in  HMAS Melbourne. 
Department of Defence- Building attenuation measurement at  HMA S Nirimba. 
Department of Defence-Noise survey of Puckapunyal Workshop Company. 
Department of Defence (Navy)- Assessment of office noise, Aircraft Maintenance and Repair Branch, Garden Island. 
Department of Defence (Navy)-Noise measurements in an audiometric booth, Area Medical Centre, Garden Island. 
Australian Army- Advise on noise control- Watercraft Workshops, Woolwich. 
Public Service Board- Assessment of noise levels in Mandata Computer Centre. 
Reserve Bank of Australia- Assessment of noise levels of encoding equipment. 
Australian Taxation Office- Noise reduction in form handling and printing rooms. 
Technical College, Canberra- Assessment of noise in trade workshops. 
Canberra Hospital, Canberra- Assessment of noise in laundry and sterilizing service. 
Department of Productivity- Advise on noise reduction at the Australian Government aircraft plant, Bankstown. 
Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics- Assessment of noise in survey aircraft. 
Australian National Line- Advise on ear protection required during cargo operations. ANRO AUSTRALIA. 
Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia)- Assessment of office noise, O.T.C. House, Sydney. 
Bureau of Customs- Hearing conservation survey, Cairns Airport. 
Department of Productivity- Advise on noise problems in the automatic screw machines section, Lithgow Small Arms Factory. 
Department of Social Security- Assessment of noise in workshops at Queen Elizabeth II Rehabilitation Centre. 
Department of Primary Industry- Advise on computer noise levels. 
Department of Transport- Aircraft Noise Social Survey. 
Bureau of Census and Statistics, Adelaide- Assessment of noise in computer room. 
Department of Social Security, Perth- Assessment of noise of office machinery. 
A great deal of the work has been completed on many of these projects. In addition a further 20 were completed this financial year, II were completed in 1977-78 and 28 in 1976-77. 
) It is not feasible to detail reasons for delays in each report but, in addition to the factors mentioned in ( 1 ) in some cases the commissioning authority has been required to provide additional data to NAL. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, this is a highly responsible package. Despite the need to restrain public expenditure the Government has been able significantly to improve benefits available to the needy members of the community. This is a compassionate Budget. The Fraser Government has continued to give a high priority to income security and social welfare. I am sure the Government's approach will be endorsed by all Australians. 
The Government is also pleased to announce that it will maintain the income test free pension currently payable to those aged 70 or more. The rates are $5 1.45 a week for a single pensioner and $85.80 a week for a married pensioner couple. People in receipt of these pensions may be eligible for a higher rate of payment depending on how much income, excluding pension, they receive. With the concurrence of honourable members I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out the rates of pensions that will be payable to pensioners 70 years or more as from 8 November 1979. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197908215_334_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The investigation is still continuing and is not expected to be concluded for some time yet. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is provided in tabular form as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
by leave- The Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  in his Budget Speech, referred to changes in social security programs. It is appropriate that I elaborate on his statement and provide the House with some additional information. The Treasurer, in his statement of 24 May 1979 in which he announced certain decisions on expenditure and taxation, said: 
Against the severity of these cuts there will be attempts to frighten people receiving Commonwealth social security pensions and benefits and repatriation payments. These payments will be maintained by the Government. The fearmongers should be ignored. 
The Government has maintained social security payments. It has also been able to make some very worthwhile improvements to the social security and welfare system. In particular, we will restore half-yearly indexation of pensions and benefits; extend the income limits for pensioner fringe benefits; extend eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards to supporting parent beneficiaries; provide grants to voluntary agencies providing emergency relief; significantly increase expenditure on services for families and children; and increase the rates of workers compensation for Commonwealth employees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) The figures quoted by the honourable member are the amounts of methadone supplied at the wholesale level to hospitals and pharmacies in the ACT during the two four-weekly periods mentioned. However, following the introduction of the Poisons and Narcotic Drugs Ordinance 1978 (with effect from 29 December 1978) which provides the Capital Territory Health Commission with powers to strictly control the supply, processing, prescribing and administration of addictive drugs, the supply of methadone at the wholesale level in the ACT has drastically reduced. As an indication, for the four-week period ended 24 February 1979 the total amount of methadone made available at a wholesale level in the ACT was 6,000 mgs. This compares with the figure of 154,200 mgs for the four-week period ended 7 October 1978. 
Until the introduction of the Poisons and Narcotic Drugs Ordinance, detailed records of the purpose for which methadone was prescribed in the ACT were not kept by the Capital Territory Health Commission. However, the Commission's view is that the high level of demand was the result of an increase in methadone prescriptions for the treatment of heroin addiction. Since the introduction of the Poisons and Narcotic Drugs Ordinance, the Commission has maintained records of long-term prescription of methadone. These records show that the bulk of methadone prescribed is for the treatment of disabling pain associated with malignant neoplasia or self-limiting disorders of short duration not responding to non-narcotic analgesics. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. A transuranium register would include persons coming in contact with uranium. In view of the limited work done in Australia with plutonium, the Government does not see the need to establish a transuranic register. Such work as is done, is mostly undertaken by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission which keeps comprehensive records of all employees who may be exposed to radiation or radioactive contamination. 
The Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores, 1975, prepared by my Department is at present being adopted for inclusion in the Environmental Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978 which is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Science and the Environment. The Code recommends continued health surveillance including pre-employment, continuing and post-employment medical examinations. Section 5.9.2 provides that on termination of employment all medical records of an employee shall be transferred to the central health authority and kept for 50 years. 
Discussions on all aspects of the Code are at present being held with the States. 
To extend this type of recording to such other areas as agricultural and industrial applications of radioactive materials. laboratories and educational institutions using radioactive materials. hospitals and clinics, involved in nuclear medicine (including both staff and patients). 
Commonwealth and State Government departments and establishments involved in nuclear activities such as the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Australian Radiation Laboratory, and State Health Departments. would be a massive undertaking. 
The Australian Radiation Laboratory has provided for many years a film badge service for all users of radioactive materials so that effective controls can be maintained. 
Cigarette Advertising on Television (Question No. 3527) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that the major factor underlying the Committee's conclusions was the introduction of universal health insurance in 1975 by the Labor Government at that time. This introduced increased payments to medical practitioners for services to eligible pensioners and provided a common benefit to all patients who incurred medical expenses without the effective involvement of patients in the major portion of the cost of medical services and without an effective means of monitoring excessive services by the Government of the day. The Medibank Mark I Scheme also provided for payments to medical practitioners in some States for services previously rendered in public hospitals in an honorary capacity. 
These features meant that medical practitioners were able to obtain additional income for a smaller relative increase in workload and were generally free to provide any service to patients irrespective of cost in the knowledge that they would obtain payment for those services. 
The Committee also had regard to movements in Medical Benefits Schedule fees which increased by about 90 per cent between December 1972 and January 1976. Increases since January 1976 to January 1978 were about 16 percent. These increases compare with increases in Average Weekly Earnings and the Consumer Price Index of about 67 per cent and 50 per cent respectively over the period December 1972 to January 1 976, and about 24 per cent and 25 per cent respectively over the period January 1 976 to January 1978. 
(a) (b) and (c) The data available to my Department does not provide precise information on the incomes of doctors in full-time private practice. What information is available relates to Taxation Statistics which include income from all sources. In this regard, I refer the honourable member to the Supplement to the Fifty-sixth Report to Parliament of the Commissioner of Taxation- 'Taxation Statistics 1 976-77 ', particularly pages 30 and 3 1 . 
As mentioned above, data on doctors' incomes are very limited and my Department does not have sufficient data to enable a full study of this issue to be carried out at this stage. Statistics on the payment of medical benefits and other limited statistics are currently being examined by my Department with the view to obtaining more data on doctors 'income levels. 
The Government does not have the constitutional authority to control prices, and hence doctors' fees. However, the influence exerted by the Government in this area relates to the fixing of the level of Schedule fees on which benefits for services rendered by medical practitioners are based. 
Generally, proposals by the AMA on changes to the level of Medical Benefits Schedule fees are referred to an independent Enquiry, to which the AMA and the Government make submissions. The Enquiries are required to have regard to, amongst other matters, economic circumstances affecting medical practitioners and the community generally. 
In 1976, the AMA proposed an overall 7.5 per cent increase in doctors' fees from 1 January 1977. This was substantially lower than the increase of 1 4 per cent indicated by the Australian Medical Association's calculations of the increases necessary to meet higher practice costs and maintain net income of medical practices. This increase of 7.5 per cent was introduced from 1 January 1977 on the basis of agreement that there would be a detailed Enquiry in 1977 on fees to apply from 1 January 1978. 
At the 1977 Enquiry under the honourable  Mr Justice  J. T. Ludeke, the Government proposed increases less than those sought by the AMA, and opposed some 'catch-up' elements in the AMA's proposal. Again, the increase was much less than might have been expected on the basis of movements in Average Weekly Earnings and other economic indicators. 
In 1978, the AMA offered to defer adjustments to fees from 1 January 1979 until 1 November 1979 on the condition that an independent enquiry was established early in 1979 to determine adjustments to fees effective from 1 November 1979. The Government agreed to this proposal and announced on 1 March 1979 the establishment of the 1979 Medical Fees Enquiry under  Mr Justice  Ludeke. The Government has submitted to this Enquiry a policy of restraint consistent with its overall economic policy in relation to prices, wages and incomes. 
As well, the Government has taken action to stop the provision of unnecessary medical services and the making of fraudulent claims. Departmental medical officers counsel doctors when indicated regarding their billing and practice patterns. In addition the AMA has co-operated in setting up a Medical Services Committee of Inquiry in each State to which 17 doctors have been referred after failure to respond to counselling. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No studies of this subject appear to have been published in Australia. 
Since 1945 survival in the retirement age groups has improved considerably for females, and to a lesser extent for males. Both males and females retiring today thus have longer expectation of life than did those retiring at the same age in 1945. In groups where retirement now is earlier than it was in 1945, the average time between retirement and death will have also been increased on this account. 
To determine whether early retirement affects longevity it would be necessary to compare survival from say age 60 in a group who continued to work after that age with survival from age 60 in a group of similar health at that age and who elected to retire then. No such study appears to have been carried out anywhere. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
) I am not aware of such evidence at present. 
) The question of controls on advertising of alcohol and tobacco is primarily a matter for consideration by the State Governments. Except for the A.C.T. the Commonwealth's power to legislate to control the advertising of alcohol and tobacco is restricted to television and radio. Advertising of cigarettes and cigarette tobacco on television and radio has been prohibited since1 September 1976 under the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
Codes of advertising practice for alcohol and cigarettes do exist and are the subject of continuing review by the Commonwealth. I would emphasise, however, that the way is open to the States at present to introduce controls on advertising of alcohol and tobacco, including legislative controls, if they so desire. 
The regulation of advertising of goods for therapeutic use (drugs) is divided constitutionally between the States and the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth has responsibility for control of advertising of imported drugs (usually restricted to prescription only) and the advertising of over the counter ( O.T.C. ) drugs in the radio and television media. Advertising of other categories, such as drugs not imported but manufactured in Australia, and advertising in print media are the responsibility of the State in which the advertisement appears. 
Some time ago the National Therapeutic Goods Committee, which is a body comprising representatives from all State health authorities and the Commonwealth, drafted a set of guidelines for the regulation of advertising and promotion of both prescription drugs and O.T.C. preparations. This was in two Parts, A and B, referring to the two respectively. 
PanA (referring to ethical drugs) was not proceeded with and lapsed, but Pan B dealing with O.T.C. preparations became the basis for the current 'Voluntary Code for the Advertising of Goods for Therapeutic Use '. This Code has been adopted by the Australian Media Council in approval of advertisements for goods for therapeutic use in print media and is a basis for approval of radio and television advertising. 
The introduction of this Code has resulted in a degree of uniformity in advertising over various media, previously unobtainable. 
For the information of honourable members, I have lodged with the Parliamentary Library copies of the document 'Proposed Requirements for the Advertising of Therapeutic Goods Recommended by the National Therapeutic Goods Committee, and which the Australian Health Ministers at their August 1974 Conference agreed to take back to their respective Governments' and of the 'Voluntary Code for the Advertising of Goods for Therapeutic Use (Proprietary Medicines and Therapeutic Appliances)'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware that a press release on 2 May of this year by the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences gave notice that a third report of its Committee on Biological Effects of Radiation would be released in the near future. A copy of the final report has not as yet been received. 
However, a copy of the final draft summary and conclusions of some sections of this report has been examined which allows for some comment. 
The report specifically states that it does not make recommendations for the purposes of standard setting. 
It cautions that the risk estimates in the report should in no way be interpreted as precise expectations, being based on incomplete data and involving a degree of uncertainty. 
There is no comparison as this report is not directly concerned with the setting of radiation protection standards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. (2)I understand that the motion of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Medical Association (AMA) to which the honourable member has referred, has been substantially amended by the Association's Federal Assembly. However, in any event, action in respect of immigration of overseas medical practitioners will follow from further consideration of the recommendations of the report of the Committee of Officials on Medical Manpower Supply, tabled in Parliament on 22 March 1 979. A copy of the report was forwarded to the AMA and its views on the recommendations have been sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am not aware of the report that the Australian Association of Surgeons is pressing for the removal of fee differentials between States. 
The estimated cost to the Commonwealth under present arrangements of an increase or decrease of all Schedule fees to that of (a) New South Wales is $23m and (b) the State with the highest current Schedule fee is $28m, on a fullyear basis. 
Under the proposed 1 September 1979 arrangements, these costs reduce to $ 1 7m and $22m respectively on a fullyear basis. 
The estimated increases in basic medical weekly family contribution rates by State from 1 September 1979, if all fee differentials were removed and Schedule fees adjusted to the State with the highest Schedule fee would be- 
New South Wales- nil cents 
Victoria- 1 6 cents 
Queensland- 32 cents 
South Australia- 1 9 cents 
Western Australia- 22 cents 
Tasmania- 1 7 cents 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics has advised that no estimates have been made of the effects on the Consumer Price Index of these increases. It has advised that it is not possible to make reliable estimates without knowing the actual fees that would be charged by medical practitioners for particular services (as distinct from Schedule fees) if Schedule fees in all States were to be brought into line with those currently applicable in the State with the highest Schedule fees. In calculating the CPI the Australian Statistician collects information on actual fees charged from a sample of medical practitioners each quarter, and it is not practicable to obtain such information about hypothetical future changes in fees. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. On 7 May 1979, the United States Senate considered a Bill (S.440) to revise and extend the Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment, and Rehabilitation Act of 1970. Several amendments to the Act were proposed, including a proposed health warning on alcoholic beverage containers. As far as I am aware, the Senate Bill was referred to the House of Representatives on 8 May 1 979, where it remains to be considered. 
Over the past few years, proposals for printing the alcohol content on alcoholic beverage containers have beer the subject of investigation by the Food Standards Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH and MRC) and the Health Ministers' Conference Working Party on Alcohol. 
In June 1 976, the Food Standards Committee placed before the State Food Advisory Committees a recommendation on the alcohol content labelling of alcoholic beverages. Generally, the States did not accept the principles of labelling alcoholic beverages according to their alcohol content. One of the main arguments against such a proposal was that it may well have an opposite effect to that intended. That is, some people may be attracted to the beverage with the highest alcohol content. 
The related matter of printing a health warning (as opposed to the alcohol content) on labels on alcoholic beverage containers has been considered by the Health Ministers' Conference Working Party on Alcohol. However, a consensus was not reached in favour of the proposal. While there are no plans at present to place warning labels on alcoholic beverage containers, my Department will continue to keep the matter under review as part of its on-going role of monitoring the patterns of alcohol consumption in Australia. 
Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries (Question No. 3961) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Awards for compensation for medical negligence in treatment flow from civil proceedings in State and Territory courts. My Department does not maintain statistics on the incidence of such proceedings and accordingly I am unable to provide the information requested. 
McDonald Corporation (Question No. 3979) 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is not proposed at this time to alter the period of validity of referrals to specialists and consultant physicians. 
Extension of the referral period, as suggested by the honourable member, would be applicable for only a small number of conditions and could cause a small reduction in overall health costs. On the other hand, if an extension of the referral period were to lead to increased patient utilization of specialist services instead of general practitioner services, there could, as a result, be an overall increase in costs. With some 35 million specialist services each year, it would be administratively impracticable to consider each individual service separately to decide whether an extended referral period was appropriate. The only practical course is to lay down a system which is capable of uniform application. 
) The latest review of the referral system was completed in March 1979. 
The latest review was initiated following some complaints about the need for annual referral for certain ophthalmological conditions requiring specialist care. From the viewpoint of any one individual who is fortunate enough not to require the services of a general practitioner between annual visits to a specialist, the system may be seen as personally inconvenient. The review indicated, however, that the system was generally working satisfactorily, and that it appeared to be acting as a brake on uncontrolled direct access to specialists whose services attract higher fees and benefits than do general practitioner services, and that it should remain unaltered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The School Dental Scheme generally covers primary school children only, at this time. This is due to the need for maximum restraint in public expenditures. Any future proposal for extension of the Scheme beyond primary school level will be discussed with the dental profession and the States. 
) The arrangement that exists for School Dental Scheme coverage of some secondary school children in Tasmania is due to the fact that Tasmania was treating a substantial number of secondary school children at the time of commencement of the Scheme. However, Commonwealth financial support for treatment of secondary school students in Tasmania is restricted to current levels of activity. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
No tests have been carried out to determine the risks to a community in the event of a house with free asbestos ceiling insulation being unroofed. It could be assumed however that where high winds disturbs a roof allowing asbestos fibres to escape, the wind would be of a sufficient velocity to disperse the asbestos fibres quickly. 
3 ) Yes. See answer to (2 ) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the following tables figures for periods prior to the introduction of the hospitals cost sharing arrangements in 1975-76 relate to public hospitals. Figures for 1975-76 to 1977-78 are for those public hospitals recognised for the purposes of the cost sharing arrangements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is provided in the following table which gives estimates of health expenditure (cash outlay) related to Gross Domestic Product and broken down as requested. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The monthly amounts of $16 daily bed subsidy paid for patients in private hospitals by my Department since 1 November 1978 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of metronidazole prescriptions dispensed as pharmaceutical benefits under the National Health Act in each of the last three years are as follows: 
1975-76-237,167; 1976-77-229,878; 1977-78-211,446. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that the property is being purchased by the New South Wales Drug and Alcohol Authority with ownership being vested with the New South Wales Minister for Lands, and that the rehabilitation hostel will be conducted by the United Pentecostal Church. Commonwealth funds are not involved in the project. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The numbers of nursing homes in the Electoral Division of Batman were as follows: 
1976-77- 14 nursing homes 
1977-78- 16 nursing homes 
1.7.78 to 1.4.79- 16 nursing homes. 
The names of these nursing homes and their proprietors were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A final report of the project entitled  A Study of Health Needs in the Fitzroy, Collingwood and Richmond Areas  was not lodged with the former Hospital and Health Services Commission. Not all phases of the study were able to be completed as originally intended and only half the grant money was expended. 
Papers on two aspects of the study are available and I understand that these have been forwarded direct to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member is not available. 
Registered health funds provide information on membership and coverage to my Department each quarter but as funds are registered on a State basis the information in respect of particular electorates, Commonwealth or State, is not known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) Drugs supplied in public wards and outpatient departments of recognised hospitals are generally not pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions. Recognised hospitals are permitted to obtain drugs on pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions only in cases of emergency, and the cost of the bulk of drugs supplied in hospitals would therefore be included in hospital operating costs and shared between the Commonwealth and State Governments under the hospitals agreements. Data are not collected on an individual prescription basis. 
Pharmaceutical benefits are supplied to patients through approved chemists on the presentation of a prescription. Data on these prescriptions are set out in (2 ). 
For the 1977-78 financial year, the number of NHS pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions was 93,167,000; Total cost, including patient contribution was $36 1 , 240,000; Average price per benefit prescription was $3.88. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A number of parties are now showing interest in the establishment of health maintenance organisations in different parts of Australia, and discussions have taken place between them and Departmental officers. My Department has prepared and revised guidelines on the operation of prepaid health plans/health maintenance organisations; these guidelines have been widely distributed and are available on request. 
Health Program Grants for Health Services Development Projects have been established to foster such developments. One such grant has been made to the Australian Medical Association (SA Branch) for a feasibility study of the potential of health maintenance organisations in Australia. 
The changes in health insurance arrangements which will come into operation from I September 1979, with an increasing proportion of health costs being borne by consumers, will increase the incentive for patients to join health maintenance organisations. I am, therefore, hopeful that we will see further progress towards health maintenance organisations being established in Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Considerable progress has been made. The Australian Medical Association (AMA), which has accepted the leadership role for peer review within the medical profession, announced in May 1978 that it endorsed the concept of introducing systems of peer review. 
Since that time, the AMA has sought support for the establishment of a Peer Review Resources Centre. I announced on 9 February 1979 a grant of $50,000 to the Centre. In my announcement I outlined the functions of the Centre. 
To assist the AMA in the early development of peer review in Australia, the Commonwealth Government has already made a special grant of $ 100,000 in total over the three years to 30 June 1 979. The purpose of this special grant was to support educational and project work directly associated with quality control and peer review. 
All major teaching hospitals in Australia are pursuing, in some form, issues related to peer review. However, so far as I am aware, there are, as yet, no hospitals in Australia with fully operational peer review systems, encompassing the essential features of quality assurance, utilisation review and criteria auditing, in all clinical departments. 
This is hardly surprising, in view of the complexities involved in developing appropriate peer review systems for introduction into each of the 1,130 hospitals in Australia. It should also be recognised that, even in overseas countries where peer review activities have been pursued for more than a decade, totally comprehensive systems of peer review have not yet been developed. 
My Department has also been actively encouraging the introduction of peer review by professional organisations. These initiatives are at various stages of development. However, it is recognised that this will be considerably more difficult to achieve than within hospitals. 
The Government is determined to assist the medical profession in the establishment of peer review mechanisms within and outside the hospital system, and to encourage initiatives in the development and implementation of peer review by professional organisations. To this end, my Department has also made grants in excess of $lm in totalfor a range of research and development studies associated with peer review. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. A women's refuge primarily for Aboriginal women and operated by the Aborigines Advancement League, Northcote, is included in the Victorian program of women's refuges approved for funding under the Community Health Program. 
No. However, I am informed that the Victorian Department of Community Welfare Services, through which Commonwealth Community Health Program funds are channelled, has advised the solicitors administering the deceased estate of the terms of the Commonwealth's approval for funding of this refuge under the Community Health Program. 
No. As the honourable member is aware, Commonwealth funds for the Community Health Program have been appropriated on an annual basis ever since the Program began. The level of Commonwealth support for this refuge in 1979-80 will be dependent upon the level of funds available for women's refuges nationally and upon the level of funds allocated to this particular refuge by the State authorities. 
Aboriginals at Lake Nash Station  (Question No. 4048) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Actual expenditure on medical benefits from 1 November 1978 to the end of May 1979 was $282 million. Allowing for delays in presentation of claims, full year expenditure on the basis of the 1 November 1978 medical benefits changes at 1978-79 fee levels would have been an estimated $69Sm. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The main parts of the Government's submission to the Inquiry into Doctors ' Fees conducted by  Mr Justice  Ludeke are outlined in paragraphs 29 to 33 of his report of 20 July 1979. The report and determination have been made public, as was foreshadowed when I announced the establishment of the Inquiry on 1 March 1979. 
Once again the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is really doing his best to encourage people not to insure privately for medical and hospital costs. I dare say he is doing this in the hope that people who take his advice will ultimately get their fingers burnt and then turn their wrath on the Government. Quite clearly, I say to people who may be interested in this debate this afternoon- and I have said it on a number of occasions- that they need to weigh their own personal financial position very, very carefully indeed before they decide to drop private health insurance or before they decide not to insure privately. An episode of medical expenses can prove very costly. Unless these people have the resources to meet those costs up to $20 with the Government meeting the expenses thereafter they could well be in some difficulty. My advice to people is opposite to that which the honourable member for Prospect seems to be constantly proclaiming. Although the Government has withdrawn some subsidy from the health insurance scheme, the new arrangements which come into force after 1 September will be still subsidised very substantially by the Government. The Government will pay all those scheduled fees above $20. The Government's contribution to medical costs will be of the order of $580m or $590m during this financial year. 
With regard to hospital insurance the average cost of a hospital bed in this financial year is anticipated to be of the order of $154 a day, yet the cost to the insured contributor will be $50 for a bed in a shared room and $75 for a bed in a private room. So honourable members can see that there is a very substantial subsidy from both the State and Commonwealth governments on a dollar for dollar basis towards costs of private hospital insurance. From memory, the total subsidy that the taxpayers are putting into health insurance would be approximately $ 1,600m to $ 1,700m. I do not have the exact figures in front of me, but it certainly would be a very substantial sum. Because of budgetary circumstances the Government stated in May, and it was debated in this Parliament, that it would be withdrawing the 40 per cent medical benefits subsidy up to $20 per service, the saving to taxpayers' revenue being approximately $2 10m in a full year. 
The Government also agreed with the States that there should be a 25 per cent increase in the hospital bed charges in the State public hospital system. The changes to the level of Government subsidy to medical insurance do not fundamentally alter the health insurance system that was introduced as from 1 November last year. The disadvantaged are protected when the doctors direct bills them to the Department of Health. There is no change to the system whereby pensioner health benefit card holders will be treated for 85 per cent of the scheduled fee with a pensioner paying no more than $5 for any service where the doctor seeks to charge the pensionerin most circumstances he does not. In all States except Western Australia and, I think, South Australia, contributors will be able to obtain basic medical and basic hospital insurance cover at premiums that are less than were applying prior to 1 November last year. I seek leave to incorporate a table in  Hansard  which spells that out. 
-Not 1975. Of course, a lot of costs have gone into the system since then. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for an amendment to the National Health Act to increase the general patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits, as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his Budget Speech. I draw honourable members' attention to clause 3 which will increase from $2.50 to $2.75 the maximum amount that approved pharmaceutical chemists may charge for the supply of a pharmaceutical benefit under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. This increase will take effect from 1 September 1979. As in the past, pensioners holding a pensioner health benefits card will not be charged for pharmaceutical benefits. Similarly no charge will be made for repatriation pensioners. lt is now just over a year since the patient contribution was set at $2.50 and this increase of 25c is broadly in line with the movements in prices and incomes since then. Increasing the patient contribution is one of the means by which the Government can curtail the increasing expenditure on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. This small increase is expected to result in a saving of $5.1m for the Government in the financial year 1 979-80. 1 commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I will give some attention to the details of the question. The Leader of the Opposition will understand that insurance is provided o insure oneself against the possibility of loss or h *h cost. Most people insure their homes or cars, h ling that their homes are never burnt down or damaged and that their cars are never involved in a road accident. They insure themselves for health costs, hoping that they will never be so seriously ill as to recover their premiums. Most people insure themselves against the possibility of high cost. High costs can be occasioned by a chronic illness that might come upon one uninvited. Everyone can become a chronically ill person whether he wants to or not. So my advice to people generally is not to take too seriously the rather political invitations of the Opposition which are clearly designed to try to persuade people not to insure themselves privately so that when they become ill- I am sure this is what the Opposition hopes-they will take their anger out on the Government. Generally my advice to people is that as from I September they will no longer receive the 40 per cent benefit they receive now but they will be covered by the Government for all schedule medical fees over $20. Uninsured people could become involved in an episode of medical costs and could be up for quite a lot of expenditure. 
Whether to insure for a doctor of choice in hospital is a very personal decision for people to take. If they are satisfied that they do not want a doctor of choice they are entitled free of charge to public hospital standard ward accommodation and treatment by a doctor engaged by the hospital. If people want their doctor of choice to treat them under the public hospital system in this country they would be wise either to maintain their present insurance status or to take out private insurance. Let me say that notwithstanding - 
I am sorry if the honourable member does not like this answer. The honourable member can protest as much as he likes. Notwithstanding all the rumoured savage increases in health insurance, in all States but South Australia people will be able to obtain basic hospital and medical cover at a price lower than that which obtained prior to 1 November last. In South Australia it will be only 10c a week more expensive for a family. Last night the Leader of the Opposition once again tried to deceive the Australian people. He said that it would cost most people an extra $3 a week or more to cover themselves as a result of the health insurance changes. That is quite wrong. The truth of the matter is that in New South Wales, for instance, people will be able to obtain combined medical and hospital cover for $1.25 a week cheaper than they could have obtained it on 1 November last year. Can anybody tell me what else is cheaper now than it was as at 1 November last year? 

 Opposition 
 membvs 
 interjecting - 

Honourable members opposite do not like it but if they have ears they are going to listen to it. 
I was not going to respond to this debate but I am afraid that the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  brings me to my feet because he spoke about the insensitivity of the Government. I suggest that he has a very high degree of insensitivity; otherwise he would not allude to health costs. They were not a problem in this country until a government of his political persuasion came to office for three years. It was during that government's term of office that we saw the greatest explosion in health costs this country has ever witnessed. We saw health costs exploding at a rate of over 40 per cent in one year and we saw - 
The honourable member interjects but he knows it is only too true that the great explosion in health costs occurred while the former Labor Government was governing this country. We are paying a high price as a community for its indiscretions and the way it stuffed the doctors' mouths with gold. That is precisely what it did. Following inquiries it increased doctors fees for benefit purposes by three times as much as the Fraser Government has during the three years that it has been in office. So I suggest that honourable members opposite not talk to this House or to the nation about health costs or talk in pious tones about what they think should be done to control the costs in this area. There is not a person in this country who is not paying a high price for the indiscretions and inefficiencies of the previous Labor Government and the way it ran the whole system. Health insurance premiums today reflect, to a large degree, the damage that the Labor Government occasioned during its three years of office. When I became Minister for Health, health costs in this nation were rising at the rate of 35 per cent per annum overall. It has been reduced now to about 10 per cent per annum. So, it is the community at large that is paying this tremendous price. Really and truly, to coin a phrase, as Minister for Health, it makes me sick to hear that sort of weak and limp argument, that pious sort of talk coming from a member of the Opposition which has done so much damage to the whole health insurance and health cost area in this country. 
In regard to this legislation the Government has updated the patient contribution for the pharmaceutical benefits as indeed the former Government did when it was in office. The Opposition did that when it was in government. It did precisely that. In fact, on one occasion it increased it by 50 per cent. It is not unusual to find that there is a precedent for it. I am sorry that members of the Opposition are so sad about it. Their faces are red with fury because I am putting back into their own mouths the sorts of things that today they have been hurling at the Government from the comfort of their benches. However, the Government has been investigating certain methods. I say that to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who led for the Opposition this afternoon and who expressed concern, quite rightly so, for the disadvantaged people. I issued a Press statement which is largely in accord with the amendment that the Opposition has moved, but an amendment which the Government rejects for the reasons that I will spell out in a moment. The Press statement that I issued states: 
The Minister said he was hopeful that a scheme could be evolved which would give relief to disadvantaged people in relation to pharmaceutical benefits. 
He said the Government was fully aware that the new increase, although small, could cause some further difficulty for disadvantaged people in the community, and his Department was currently examining possible ways in which assistance with pharmaceutical costs might be given to them. 

 Mr Hunt pointed out that considerable assistance with health costs was already available to disadvantaged people. 
Under the medical benefits scheme, doctors are able to bulk-bill accounts for patients they classify as disadvantaged', he said. 
In addition, disadvantaged patients as a general rule are able to obtain their drugs free of charge at hospital outpatients ' departments. ' 
I share the Opposition's concern about health costs. We are all human. If we did not have a sense of humanity about us, we would not deserve to be here. I think we have a very great responsibility to try to work out a scheme I believe we have the elements of a scheme which can be announced in the not too distant future. I have been reluctant to proceed with the scheme any further until the Ralph Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Industry Inquiry issues its report. I expect to receive that report towards the end of this week. I hope to table that report in this Parliament in the not too distant future. 
I think there is clearly a great responsibility to take two sections of the community into account: Firstly, the disadvantaged and secondly the chronically ill. 
I wrote to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee some time ago suggesting that it try to identify the diseases by the drugs that are prescribed for certain chronic conditions. I am pleased to say that the PBAC has responded very favourably and co-operatively to that request. A great number of drugs are being prescribed in larger quantities to cope with that situation. Clearly I think we need to do that. The medical position is, however, that there is some danger in prescribing enormous quantities of drugs for any one condition because it could encourage a patient not to go back for further tests. I am not a doctor and I would not like to pass any judgment on that statement, but so many members of the medical profession have told me that that is true. 
I want to conclude my remarks by referring to peer review because I regard that as a very important objective. Great progress has been made. It has been very hard to move the profession in the direction in which I think it needs to be moved. It was an initiative of this Government. We have had great support from the leadership of the Australian Medical Association, but we are still in the process of actually pilot testing a number of projects in Australia. Our total cost in getting peer review off the ground has so far amounted to nearly $1m. I hope that in the not too distant future we can report progress to the Parliament on what has been achieved in what I think is a highly worthy objective of improving the quality of care extended by the medical profession. The Government does reject the amendment, but gives an assurance to the House that it is in the process of developing a scheme that will overcome the concern of the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Klugman's amendment)  stand pan of the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The objectives of the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine are as follows: 
As a Resource Centre for the Nation 
To identify sources of information on health, on illness, and on health care systems in Australia and elsewhere; 
To collect, correlate, interpret and disseminate such information, and act as a reference centre for Australia in these areas: 
To promote health and a better understanding of health care throughout Australia and elsewhere; 
To provide a source of consultative expertise on the various aspects of knowledge in this field; 
By research, to improve knowledge in areas where it is deficient; 
To demonstrate ways in which the resources involved may be used more effectively and efficiently; 
To suggest innovatory programs which could be carried out on an experimental basis in order to advance understanding of health and health care systems. 
As a Teaching Centre 
To train undergraduate and postgraduate students enrolled for degrees or diplomas at the University in accordance with the following aims: 
To teach the understanding of health care delivery systems and their more efficient management; 
To increase students' awareness of the basic needs of the community for health, health promotion and health care delivery and how best they can be achieved within the limited resources of manpower, facilities and finance available within a nation; 
To educate individuals in specific skills within the competence of the institution. 
The activities of the School are research and investigation, consultation and teaching in connection with health and health care systems as follows: 
Research and Investigation 
Research and investigation work covers a wide range of subjects relating to public health and tropical medicine, including studies of biochemistry, cell biology carcinogenesis, epidemiology and biostatistics, entomology, environmental and occupational health, occupational hygiene, health services planning and structures, parasitology, pathology and microbiology, preventive and social medicine. Field work has been undertaken throughout Australia, Norfolk Island, Nauru, Cocos Island, Heard Island and the Antarctic. 
Consultation 
Consultative services provided by the sections of the School in their particular subjects are widely used by various Federal and State Departments and instrumentalities, the Armed Services, industry and private individuals. Consultancy assignments are also conducted for the World Health Organization and the Australian Development Assistance Bureau in relation to Health projects which form part of the Australian overseas aid program. 
Teaching 
Post-graduate courses are held annually for the degree of Master of Public Health with options in Tropical Health, Occupational Health, and Public Health and for the Diploma in Tropical Public Health, and teaching is provided in various subjects for the Diplomas in Dentistry, Nutrition and Dietetics and Social Work. 
Undergraduate courses are provided for students in the faculties of Medicine, Science, Architecture and Engineering. Classes are also held for various other groups including industrial medical officers, technical and managerial staff, nurses, teachers and tropical residents. Special training is arranged for departmental officers and personnel of the Armed Services. Overseas students, sponsored under Australian overseas aid programs or by World Health Organization also attend some of these courses. 
101 persons are currently employed full time and 4 part-time. There are 44 academic and senior administrative staff and a list of these with their qualifications follows: 
Professor and Principal of the School- Lindsay Alexander Gordon Davidson, MB ChB Edin., Md Birm., FRCP FRCPE FRACP; 
Professor of Environmental Health- David Alexander Ferguson, MD BS FRACP; 
Professor of Preventive and Social Medicine- Charles Baldwin Kerr, DPhil Oxf., MB BS FRACP MFCM; 
Professor of Tropical Medicine- Robert Hughes Black. ED, DTM&amp;HLiv., MD BS Dip Anthrop, FRACP; 
Professor of Public Health Biology- Patrick Macartney de Burgh, MB BS FRCPA (seconded); 
Visiting Professor of Epidemiology (part-time)- Walter Oswald Spitzer, MD MHA MPH CCFP(C). 
Associate Professors- Grahame M. Budd, MD BS, FRACP (Environmental Health); David J. Lee, BSc (Medical Entomology); Robert MacLennan, MB BS Qld DTM&amp;H DCH MS Tulane, MRCP (Epidemiology and Biostatistics); Bruce McMillan, MB BS, DTM&amp;H DAP&amp;E Lond., FRACP FRCPA (Medical Parasitology); Peter M. Moodie, MD BS, DTM&amp;H (Tropical Public Health). 
Senior Lecturers- Thomas K. Ng, MD BS Hong Kong LLB Lond., DPH DIH DPA FIS FHA FRSH MFCM (Occupational Health); Janice C. Reid, B.Sc Adel., MA Hawaii, PhD Stanford (Tropical Medicine); James A. Thorn, MB ChB Aberdeen MSc DTM&amp;H DIH Lond., FRSM (Environmental Health). 
Lecturers-Robert S. U. Baker, BSc (Hons) PhD W.A., MASM (Cell Biology); Jannette C. Brand, BSc (Hons) N.S.W., (Nutrition); Ian Darnton-Hill, MB BS Adel., DA Lond., Dip Nut &amp; Diet Flinders (Nutrition); Gregory B. Goldstein, MB BS, FRACP (Preventive and Social Medicine); Colin C. Reid, MB BS (Occupational Health); Susan A. Treloar, BSoc Stud (Hons) (Preventive and Social Medicine); Wim Zylstra, MB BS DTM&amp;H Lond., FRACP (Tropical Medicine). 
Principal Tutors- Anthony W. Findlay, BSc N.S.W. (Occupational Health); Gordon J. Lincoln, BSc (Hons) (Environmental Health); Gershom  Major, BSc  Melb. (Occupational Hygiene); Michael F. O'Keeffe, ASTC (Microbiology); Richard C. Russell, MSc (Medical Entomolgy); John C. Walker, BSc (Medical Parasitology). 
Senior Tutor-Susan Ash, MHP N.S.W., BSc Dip Nut &amp; Diet (Nutrition). 
Tutors-Barbara J. McPhee, Dip Phty MAPA (Occupational Physiotherapy); Alan J. Rogers, BSc N.S.W., MSc Lond. (Occupational Hygiene). 
Other Academic Staff- Alison J. Bellamy, Dip Soc Stud (Social Sciences in Health); Simon F. Chapman, BA (Hons) N.S.W. (Health Education and Sociology); Vera G. Charnas, BA (Health Surveillance); Patricia M. Desmarchelier, BappSc QIT (Microbiology); Christian A. J. Dupressoir, BSc (Occupational Hygiene); William B. Hennessy, MB BS, DTM&amp;H FRACP FRCP (Clinical Tropical Medicine); Kersi M. Meher-Homji, MSc Bombay (Virology); Denys C. Torpy, BA MB BS DTM&amp;H Liv. (Biochemistry); Barbara Field, MB BS (Occupational Health); Airdrie A. Long, MB BS (Occupational Health); Barbara Edye, MB BS (Occupational Health). 
Registrar(D.P.H.&amp;T.M.)-Clifford C. Dyer(Acting). 
Deputy Registrar (Academic Matters) (S.P.H.&amp;T.M.)John C. Short, Dip Tech ( Mgt ) B Bus N.S. W.I.T., AM usA. 
Librarian (S.P.H.&amp;T.M. )-Shirley P. McGlynn, BA ALAALAA. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) Until recently blood lead levels of around 100 micrograms per 100 mls and sometimes higher were generally accepted as representing the level at which lead poisoning would occur. In more vulnerable groups such as children, levels of SO micrograms per 100 mls of blood have been shown to produce signs and symptoms of lead poisoning in children. 
Recently, the validity of these levels has been questioned and research both in Australia and overseas is leading to a re-examination of such recommendations. 
and (4) I am aware of the study 'Lead Burden of Sydney School Children ' which was, in fact, part funded by the National Health and Medical Research Council. I have asked Council to review the subject as a matter of urgency and to advise me on desirable goals and appropriate guidelines designed to ensure the maintenance of proper health standards. 
I expect this advice to be available in October. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report entitled Promoting HealthProspects of Better Health Throughout Australia. This report was distributed to honourable members recently. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a), (b) and (c) Yes. Having obtained a copy of the address given by  Mr F.  S. Berger, former  president  of Seagram, which he delivered in April this year, I must say that it concerned itself fundamentally with the importance of marketing and with methods used by Seagram to promote the sales of certain brands of products. These included alcoholic beverages which were cited as examples of  Mr Berger's  advertising approach. 
Given the basic purpose of the seminar address, I am unable to support the request for an international counter-strategy. 
No, not on the basis of the seminar address referred to. 
I give the honourable member an assurance that the Government is maintaining very substantial funding for women's refuges throughout Australia, and particularly in New South Wales. Out of this year's allocation of over $3m, no less than $1,055,000 will be going to New South Wales. That is 12 per cent up on the allocation that was made to that State last year. The amount that has been allocated to the New South Wales Government, in spite of the bleating of the Minister,  Mr Jackson,  happens to be in accordance with the amount that was sought by the New South Wales Government to maintain services at existing levels. However, I think he may have been somewhat overcome by the fact that the Minister for Social Security, my colleague in the other place, made available $300,000 to child care workers in those refuges. The New South Wales Government could well have undertaken this job since it has a responsibility for children in its own State. 
Under the funding arrangements that we have specially established for women's refuges, they are favoured to this extent: Community health programs, other than those for ethnic health workers, and interpreters and translators in the ethnic communities, are receiving 50 per cent of the capital requirements. The State is being asked to meet a similar portion. We are meeting dollar for dollar the operating costs of all other projects. But for women's refuges we are meeting 75 per cent of all the capital costs and 50 per cent of the operating costs. So, we are giving special emphasis to them. I will give an undertaking, as I have already done to the women's refuges in New South Wales, that we will investigate the problem to see what is going on. It is just my hope that the New South Wales Government is not in some way diverting funds that we are making available to the States to other than women's refuges. We will make sure that those funds go to women's refuges. I cannot understand why  Mr Jackson  should be engaging in such a campaign, because he has shown a very poor initiative in this area. 
-I wish to make a correction of a minor detail to an answer that I gave during Question Time. In reply to a question on women's refuges, I indicated that Commonwealth funding was 75 per cent of capital costs and 50 per cent of operating costs. It was the other way round. I made a mistake. It is 50 per cent of capital costs and 75 per cent of the operating costs. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (3) The Department of Social Security monitors variations in exchange rates and adjusts Australian social services pensions when the exchange rate between British and Australian currencies varies by 5 cents Australian or more per pound sterling and appears stabilized. 
In the past two years, adjustments to Australian pensions were effected from the pay days 18 August 1977, 2 February 1978, 30 March 1978, 6 July 1978, 18 January 1979 and 10 May 1979. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
There is no list available, but it is understood that 32 countries took part. 
Not known. 
There was no single decision which determined Australia's participation. The invitation from the contest organisers in Mexico was considered by several bodies such as the International Year of the Child Events Task Force on which the Commonwealth and all States were represented, the Department of Foreign Affairs, my Department and several private groups. The general consensus was that Australia should participate. 
Four girls and two boys. 
Australian contestants were selected from sand sculpture competitions held in each State and in the Northern Territory. The events were organised by TAA, Coca Cola and the Surf Life Saving Association in conjunction with the local IYC committees in the States. The competition was judged on criteria related to the skill the children showed in making their sand sculptures. 
7 ) The cost of air travel to Mexico and accommodation in Mexico for the six selected contestants and an escort was met by the contest organisers. The Australian Government met expenses totalling $950 incurred in the course of the team travelling to and from Mexico. 
8 ) The team departed on 24 April 1 979 and returned on 4 May 1 979. It stayed overnight in San Francisco, Los Angeles and Acapulco. 
9 ) An official report of the trip was prepared. 
10) This was an international competition organised to enable children of many countries to meet during IYC. There are no plans for participation in other international contests. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Australia has not concluded any comprehensive reciprocal agreements on social security since 8 March 1978. 
Social Security Agreement with Malta  (Question No. 4528) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 

 Mr Sellwood visited Malta in June 1975 mainly for preliminary discussions on general principles on which Australia might enter into reciprocal agreements on Social Security. He had no negotiating status. 
) to (4) Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Health Insurance Commission has awarded a contract to TNT Group 4 Security Pty Ltd for the computer processing of salaries for Medibank staff. 
Selective tenders were invited from three major bureaux considered competent to offer this facility to the Commission in all States of Australia. 
One of the part-time Health Insurance Commissioners is the  Chairman  of Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, He was unaware of the grant of the contract to TNT Group 4 Total Security Pty Ltd. The decision was properly taken by management (without reference to the Commission) as the options provided in the successful quote best suited the Commission's requirements and were at the lowest cost. 
Files on Japanese Surrender at Rabaul  (Question No. 4474) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The north eastern corridor of Melbourne is serviced by three regional offices- Melbourne, Preston and Northcote. (The Northcote office is currently located in the Commonwealth Centre, Melbourne, but lease arrangements have been finalised to locate the office at 252-260 St. Georges Road, North Fitzroy). 
The areas serviced by these offices are encompassed broadly within the following post code boundaries: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) No. 
Earlier this year, I advised the State Ministers for Health, who have primary responsibility for the administration of community health projects, including women 's health centres, of the Commonwealth's policy concerning the charging of fees for medical services provided by general practitioners employed on a salaried or sessional basis in centres funded under the Community Health Program. 
This advice was to the effect that Commonwealth policy is that, for Schedule medical services rendered by or on behalf of salaried or sessionally paid general practitioners employed in any community health centre funded under the Community Health Program, charges should be made at the Schedule Fee level for all clients except Pensioner Health Benefit card holders and their dependants, and disadvantaged clients. 
In relation to women's health centres specifically, an exception may also be made for clients who, because of the nature of their private domestic arrangements, might experience problems if the consultation were made known to other members of the family. 
However, the administrative arrangements for the Community Health Program are such that the States have a significant degree of flexibility in matters of administrative detail such as this. The Commonwealth's approach is considered to be reasonable in principle, since it places the client of a health centre in generally the same position as the client of a general practitioner at another health centre. 
It is recognised that there may be special circumstances applicable to certain centres and that, in any case, there may be related State policies which indicate a need for modification of the Commonwealth 's in principle approach. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim statement on the activities of the Department of Social Security for 1 978-79. 
Pursuant to section 72 of the Health Commission Ordinance 1975 I present the annual report of the Capital Territory Health Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
I have read the article in  Choice  magazine. I would like to comment upon it because I think that in fairness to the public the other side needs to be put. The article overlooks the two very important factors regarding health insurance. Firstly, it ignores the general point that people insure themselves against loss or damage while not seeking to recover their premiums. Secondly, the article also ignores the desire of people to exercise choice of doctor in the public hospital system. The magazine, I think, quite clearly ignores those two very important points about insurance. I am doubtful that the same magazine would advise every householder not to insure his or her home. I am very doubtful that the same magazine would have advised people not to insure their cars. 
The honourable member for Prospect interjects because he supports the view put by  Choice.  He is quite entitled to advance that point of view, but I think in so doing he is leading people into making very risky and dangerous decisions. No sensible person insures his house, for instance, hoping that it will be burnt down or insures a motor vehicle hoping that it is going to be involved in a car accident so that he might recover his premiums or some damages. People insure against the loss of property and they insure themselves against health costs for fear that they may have quite a considerable run of medical or hospital expenses. I believe that generally speaking people would be wise to insure themselves against the high cost of medical treatment. The honourable member for Prospect happens to enjoy an income level at which he can afford to take the risk. He undoubtedly has some medical friends who may even carry out procedures on him for nothing. Probably they would be glad to do so. I know a few doctors who might use the scalpel on him. 
The working party that was set up by the Government to investigate the operation of the bulk billing or direct billing scheme for disadvantaged people has reported to me. The scheme is working very well indeed. There have not been many problems associated with it. Indeed, the average monthly number of bulk billed services during the February-April period fell by only 5 per cent when compared with the July-October period last year, the average fall being from about 1.7 million services to 1.6 million services a month. The benefits paid for bulk billing services during the February-April period in1 979 fell by about 2 per cent compared with the July-October 1978 period. So the monthly average in terms of value of total benefits declined from about $ 15.4m to about $15m. 
More doctors are bulk billing now than prior to 1 November, but they are bulk billing slightly fewer services, which seems to indicate that the doctors probably are being a little more selective in the type of patient they are bulk billing. There is a general feeling in the community that the medical profession is co-operating very well in the Government's efforts to try to provide a special arrangement or a special benefit to the disadvantaged people in the community. For that and for the co-operation it is giving the community I thank the medical profession generally. 
-Oh yes, no trouble. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

When announcing the scheme, designed to pay the medical bills of the disadvantaged, I gave an undertaking that a working party consisting of officers of my department and representatives of the A.M.A would review the scheme after the first six months of its operation. 
That review has been completed and the new arrangements appear to be working satisfactorily. 
A further review will be undertaken during the month of November to ascertain how the scheme is working in the light of the changes to the health insurance system applying from1st September this year. 
The average monthly number of bulk-billed services during the February-April period fell by only 5 per cent compared with the July-October1 978 period: 
The average falling from about1.7 million services to about1 .6 million per month. 
The benefits paid for bulk-billed services during the February-April1979 period fell by about 2 per cent compared with the July-October1 978 period: 
The monthly average declining from about S1 5.4m to about $1 5m. 
There does not appear to be any abuse of the bulk-billing arrangements. 
More doctors are bulk billing, but they are bulk billing about 5 per cent less services than prior to abolition of bulk billing for the population as a whole. 
For the information of honourable members I present on my own behalf and on behalf of the Minister for Industry and Commerce the Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Industry Inquiry's report of August 1979. 
When we were trying to calculate what the reintroduction of Medibank might cost we had to take into account some doubtful quantities. For instance, if it was reintroduced by a Labor government the sky could be the limit because undoubtedly it would fail to introduce the sorts of checks and brakes that we have introduced into the health insurance system to reduce the rate of acceleration of health costs. When I became Minister for Health- 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is yes, regrettably the Woden Valley Hospital did not pass the test being applied by the body that was carrying out accreditation in the Australian Capital Territory. This is a matter of great concern to the Capital Territory Health Commission and to the people of the Australian Capital Territory. I have had discussions with the  Chairman  of the Commission and I would want to see the Capital Territory Health Commission take whatever action was necessary in order to bring the Capital Territory hospitals up to the standards that have been laid down by the Australian Hospital Association and the body that has joined it in carrying out accreditation examinations. The matter went further, of course. The honourable member mentioned the question of delineation and the review of professional standards. The review also suggested that the hospitals were not governed by separate boards of management. It also was critical of the fact that there was one medical committee rather than medical committees for each hospital. So this has awakened my interest in the structure of the system in the Capital Territory. 
It may be necessary to give consideration to the restructuring of the Capital Territory Health Commission itself. It may be necessary to look at re-establishing a hospital board system for each hospital. But clearly, there is a whole range of criteria that need to be examined in order to bring these hospitals up to the accreditation standard, the standard that no doubt the honourable member would want to see them reach. I am as concerned as the honourable member to ensure that the Capital Territory hospitals do reach the standards that have been set by the body that is carrying out the accreditation of hospitals in Australia because it could be that in the nottoodistant future we will cost share only those hospitals that have fulfilled accreditation. That being the case, it places a great degree of urgency upon the Capital Territory Health Commission to ensure that the hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory actually reach the standards that have been set by the accreditation body. 
The Government will take very seriously the recommendations of the AuditorGeneral and his observations, criticisms and comments. As Minister for Health I will be directing my attention to those areas where the Auditor-General thinks there could have been a deficiency. But just let me remind the honourable gentleman that prior to my becoming Minister for Health there were no such things as medical committees of inquiry with the States, although provision was made for them and the legislation was introduced by the former Government. It was not until the Fraser Government came into office that adequate provision was made for the establishment of these committees of inquiry in each State to ensure that we would reduce the level of over-servicing by certain medical practitioners in the community. No real effort had been made to come to grips with the question of fraud that was occurring in the community in the whole medical area. 
We had Commonwealth and State agreements with the hospitals that were so open ended that one could drive a double decker bus through practically every syllable of the agreements. We renegotiated those agreements with the States and tightened them up, and for the first time entered into budgeting arrangements with the States. As a consequence we are achieving a more efficient approach with the States in the establishment of costings of estimates of the administration of the hospitals. Indeed it is no wonder that the honourable member for Bonython is concerned about inefficiencies, extravagances and costs in the hospitals area because he happens to come from a State where a public accounts committee set to work and established that in South Australia, under the reign of a government of his own political persuasion, there were the most inefficient and incredible extravagances and wastages in the hospital systems. When the Public Accounts Committee brought this to light- the honourable member for Sturt brought this to my attention- I can assure honourable members that it played a very big part in the Government's decision to set up an inquiry into the administration of hospitals throughout Australia. That inquiry has now commenced. I have no doubt that there are inefficiencies within the system. Just as we are attempting to overcome the inefficiencies within the hospitals system, if there are inefficiencies in the way in which I administer the Department of Health I will seek to overcome them. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following answer replaces that published in  Hansard  on 21 August 1979: 
No. A transuranium register would include persons coming in contact with transuranic elements such as plutonium but exclude those in contact with uranium. In view of the limited work done in Australia with plutonium, the Government does not see the need to establish a transuranic register. Such work as is done, is mostly undertaken by the Austraiian Atomic Energy Commission which keeps comprehensive records of all employees who may be exposed to radiation or radioactive contamination. 
The Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores, 1975, prepared by my Department is at present being adopted for inclusion in the Environmental Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978 which is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Science and the Environment The Code recommends continued health surveillance including pre-employment, continuing and post-employment medical examinations. Section 5.9.2 provides that on termination of employment all medical records of an employee shall be transferred to the central health authority and kept for 50 years. 
Discussions on all aspects of the Code are at present being held with the States. 
To extend this type of recording to such other areas as: agricultural and industrial applications of radioactive materials. laboratories and educational institutions using radioactive materials. hospitals and clinics, involved in nuclear medicine (including both staff and patients). 
Commonwealth and State Government departments and establishments involved in nuclear activities such as the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Australian Radiation Laboratory, and State Health Departments would be a massive undertaking. 
The Australian Radiation Laboratory has provided for many years a film badge service for all users of radioactive materials so that effective controls can be maintained. 
I have seen reports that a certain brewery in New South Wales has produced a low alcohol content beer. I have not had the opportunity to sample the brew but I am sure it will be a popular drop. I congratulate the brewery concerned in New South Wales for responding to a Senate committee under the chairmanship of  Senator Peter  Baume which recommended that low alcohol content beers should be available in Australia. The Committee's report entitled Drug Problems in Australia- an intoxicated society?' is currently under consideration by the Government. I think it is fair to assume that if there is a widespread development in the consumption of low alcohol content beers it could well reduce the incidence of road accidents and also have a very big influence on reducing the incidence of alcohol caused or related illnesses. Both my Department and I as Minister for Health welcome the introduction of low alcohol content beers in Australia. I notice the Minister for Transport is having a little giggle. He likes the Carlton Light beer from Victoria, I think. I do commend the brewery for producing such a responsible brew. I wish the brew every success and I hope it takes the place of high alcohol content beers. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide for increases in benefits payable under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act which provides workers' compensation for employees of the Commonwealth Government and its statutory authorities. This legislation was last amended for this purpose during the 1976 Budget session of the Parliament. Since then there have been significant increases in the cost of living and in the benefits payable under the workers' compensation legislation in New South Wales, Western Australia, Tasmania and Queensland, while legislation is pending in Victoria. It is therefore necessary that the benefits under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act should again be increased. 
Compensation for Total Incapacity 
Employees who have been injured in activities connected with their work are entitled to receive weekly compensation payments equal to their normal full sick pay rate during the first 26 weeks of total incapacity for work. For long term cases, where total incapacity has exceeded 26 weeks, the compensation is based on fixed weekly rates that are specified in the Act. Under the Bill, the fixed weekly rate for a totally incapacitated employee without dependants will increase from $80 to $90. The additional weekly supplement for a dependent spouse will increase from $2 1 to $23.60 and the weekly supplement for each dependent child will increase from $ 10 to $ 1 1 .25. 
Compensation for Partial Incapacity 
A similar increase, from $80 to $90 a week, will also apply to the ceiling which operates in relation to the compensation payable for partial incapacity for work. 
Compensation for Death 
The Bill also provides for increases in the amounts of compensation payable where an injury results in the death of an employee. The basic lump sum payable to dependants will increase from $25,000 to $28,000. The weekly amount payable in respect from $10 to $1 1.25 and the minimum total amount payable for each child will increase from $1,000 to $1,125. The maximum amount payable in respect of funeral expenses will increase from $650 to $730. 
Compensation for Specified Losses 
The lump sums payable under the Act for specified losses will also increase. The maximum lump sum payment for such a loss will increase from $25,000 to $28,000 in the same proportion. For example, payments for severe and permanent facial disfigurement will increase from $12,500 to $14,000 and compensation for loss of the sense of taste or smell will increase from $2,500 to $2,800. 
Other Increases 
The maximum amount payable for alterations to buildings or vehicles, or repair or replacement of certain aids and appliances, will go up from $700 to $780. However, clause 7 of the Bill will allow the Commissioner for Employees Compensation to approve payments beyond this limit where he is satisfied that the circumstances of the case would justify an increased payment. 
Other Amendments 
The opportunity has also been taken to make other amendments of a relatively minor nature. The first of these, in clause 3 of the Bill, increases the upper age limit for a dependent student child from 21 years to 25 years, standardising the definition of a student child in Commonwealth compensation legislation with that applicable under the Social Services Act. The amendments in clauses 4 and 5 will clarify the application of offsetting provisions of the principal Act to employees of Commonwealth authorities and of the Northern Territory administration where invalid pensions are payable for the same injury. Clauses 6 and 9 are consequential upon changes in other legislation referred to in the principal Act. Clause 8 will allow partial invalidity superannuation pensions to be taken into account in calculating compensation entitlements. The amendments in clauses 10, 11, 12 and 13 will facilitate handling of requests for reference to a compensation tribunal for reconsideration of a compensation determination. The amendment in clause 14 is consequent on the amendments in clause 15 which provides for references of questions of law from a compensation tribunal or a prescribed court to the Federal Court of Australia. 
Application of Amendments 
The Bill provides that the increases in monetary benefits come into operation on 1 September 1 979. All other amendments will come into operation on the day the Act receives the Royal Assent. The Bill also contains the usual provisions for the increased weekly payments to apply from 1 September 1979, notwithstanding the the payments relate to an injury sustained before that date. The increased lump sums for death and specified losses will also apply from 1 September 1979 in all cases where the death occurs or the loss is suffered after that date, even though the death or loss may have resulted from an injury sustained before that date. Increases in other benefits will apply in a similar way. 
Cost of Increased Benefits 
The total cost of the increased benefits authorised by the Bill is estimated to exceed $ 1 m in a full year. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to increase the rates and amounts of compensation payable under the Seamen's Compensation Act to seamen and their dependants. The Bill will ensure that the monetary rates payable under the Act are kept in line with those contained in the Compansation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1979. I should mention, however, that the proposed amendments will not involve any cost to the Commonwealth Government as payments under the Seamen's Compensation Act are the responsibility of the shipowners. 
Increased Compensation 
Under clause 4 of the Bill the weekly compensation for total incapacity for work is to be increased from $80 to $90 for a seaman without dependants. The additional weekly supplement for a dependent wife will be increased from $2 1 to $23.60 and that for each dependent child from $10 to $1 1.25. The ceiling which applies in certain circumstances in relation to the weekly payment for partial incapacity is also to be increased from $80 to $90. In addition to the increases in weekly incapacity payments, the Bill provides for the lump sum death benefit, to which the lump sum benefits for specified injuries and maximum compensation are related, to be increased from $25,000 to $28,000. The weekly payment in respect of each dependent child of a deceased seaman will be increased from $10.00 to $1 1.25 and the minimum total amount payable for each child will increase from $1,000 to $1,125. The maximum amount payable in respect of funeral expenses will increase from $650 to $730. 
Other Amendments 
The opportunity has also been taken in clause 3 to make other amendments of a relatively minor nature. The first of these is in response to representations from the parties to the Maritime Industry Seagoing Award 1975 and operates to prevent the application of offsetting provisions of the principal Act to make-up provided by virtue of that agreement. A further amendment in clause 3 increases the upper age limit for a dependent student child from 2 1 years to 25 years. This is in line with a similar amendment to the Compensation (Commonwealth Government 
Employees) Amendment Bill 1979 and will standardise the definition of 'child' in Commonwealth compensation legislation with that applicable under the Social Services Act. 
Application of Amendments 
The Bill provides for the increases in monetary benefits to come into operation from 1 September 1979. The other amendments will come into operation on the day that the Act receives Royal Assent. The Bill also contains the usual provisions for the increased weekly payments to apply from 1 September 1979 notwithstanding that the payments relate to an injury sustained before that date. The increased lump sums for death and specified losses will also apply from 1 September 1979 in all cases where the death occurs or the loss is suffered after that date, even though the death or loss may have resulted from an injury sustained before that date. The increases in other benefits will apply in a similar way. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate on motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Miss E. Lucas. 
Miss Lucas is a permanent member of the Commonwealth Public Service. She was appointed to the position of Director on 22 June 1978. This is a Class 10 position in the Commonwealth Public Service, for which the salary range is presently $2 1 , 250-$2 1,988. 
By the normal public service selection and promotion procedures. 
Yes: in the  Commonwealth Gazette. 
Miss Lucas is an occupational therapist by profession. At the time of her appointment, she was engaged in special projects in the Central Office of the Department of Veterans' Affairs, having previously been Senior Occupational Therapist in the NSW branch of that Department. She has assisted with the Bailey enquiries on Health/Welfare co-ordination and held various other professional positions in the course of thirteen years employment in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Miss Lucas acted as escort for a team of Australian children who travelled to Mexico between 24 April 1 979 and 4 May 1979;of Answer to Question No. 4383. She has not made any other official visits overseas. 
In spite of the extraordinary lengths to which the Opposition has gone to confuse the people regarding the responsibility and advantages of the Budget to the taxpayer as from 1 December, this year's Budget has been well received by the community generally and in particular by the business sector. This is reflected in the way in which the stock exchanges have reacted to the Budget. At the close of trading yesterday the index of all ordinary shares was 667.8 1 points, which is higher than the mining boom of 1970 when the index reached 663.48. Indeed, last week it topped a record of 677. During the days of the Whitlam Government the index sank to as low as 220 points. 
As low as 220 points. Compare that with the index at the close of trading yesterday when it was 667.81. In spite of all the criticism by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and his small band of supporters, the fact remains that the record of the Fraser Government in economic management is far ahead of the deplorable record of the former Labor Government. One must not forget that the Leader of the Opposition was one of the most important members of the Whitlam Ministry. Indeed, he was central to its economic policy decisions. He was one of the great spenders. He was the Minister for Social Security. Indeed, he was the master of Medibank. He was the Treasurer during a most significant period of the Labor Government. He was the Treasurer when the Labor Government crashed in the greatest political landslide in our history. He presided over social security during the important period of Labor's three-year term when social welfare benefits and costs rose from $2,099.7m to $5,077.4m and when the Commonwealth taxpayers' expenditure on health rose from $783.2m to $2,952.7m.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which sets out the movements in some government costs and revenue between 1972-73 and 1978-79. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909254_43_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909254_44_4.jpg"></graphic>

It was during the Leader of the Opposition's term in government that doctors fees for benefit purposes rose by 94.4 per cent. It was during the Leader of the Opposition's term in government that the individual tax take of government more than doubled- from $4,089.5m to $9219m-in a three-year period, which was a record. Indeed, it was a government of records. It was during that three-year term that the Leader of the Opposition was in government that inflation rose from about 4 per cent to about 18 per cent. It was during his term in government that unemployment rose by 138,000 in one 12-month period alone- between May 1974 and May 1975. Yet we constantly hear of what a Hayden Labor government would do now for Australians. 
The Leader of the Opposition has gone to extravagant lengths to shake off the so-called Whitlam extravaganza image. In a wellorchestrated federal conference in Adelaide the Leader of the Opposition did his best to deceive the Australian people into believing that the Labor Party had learnt its lesson now that Gough Whitlam had been deposed, that the new leader, the present Leader of" the Opposition, is now a chastened man and has learnt his lesson. It was implied that it was all Whitlam 's fault and that the present Leader of the Opposition would not be as naughty or as irresponsible as his former leader. The old adage that a leopard does not change his spots is very applicable to the Leader of the Opposition and the Labor Party of 1979. Those honourable members opposite who believe that they can hoodwink the Australian people are only engaging in self-delusion. The erstwhile Labor leader in South Australia paid the price for his misjudgment of the electorate. He gambled that the Federal Budget could be sold as a bad Budget, especially in the States. Indeed, so has the New South Wales Premier, who surreptitiously stuffs money up hollow logs while he cries poor and reneges on his promises to abolish estate and gift duty. 
That is a very good interjection. I ask you: How can one judge a man who one moment says he has insufficient funds for welfare housing and the next has to struggle to hide a Budget surplus of $100m? How can I trust my New South Wales counterpart, the New South Wales Minister for Health, when he says that he wants an additional $lm for community health projects in that State? The same person tried to blame the Commonwealth for cuts in hospital services. He said that they were made because of a cut in Commonwealth funds. The truth, of course, is that the New South Wales Government will receive $438m under the hospital costsharing agreement for 1979-80 compared with $383.8m for last year, which represents an increase of $54m or 14.13 per cent, which is a greater percentage increase than is enjoyed by any other State government. So I submit that it is hardly a cut. 
Leaving aside the attempted deceptions of the New South Wales Government, let us ponder on the recent Labor defeat in South Australia. Honourable members opposite will try to dismiss this inglorious defeat on the grounds that the election was fought on State issues. Unfortunately, as is more often the case, that opinion is at odds with the views of  Mr Hawke. Mr Hawke  has said clearly that federal issues were involved. The South Australian economy was going backwards before the election last Saturday week. The people recognised that billions of dollars of investment projects were not eventuating because of the negative socialist ideology of the Labor Party. The voters saw that the Federal 
Government's economic strategy had commenced a resurgence of the best business and investment activity for almost 10 years. South Australia was going to miss out because of the negative attitudes of the Labor Government's policies. It was more concerned with stifling investment and crying poor than getting on with the job. The Labor Party has cost South Australians many billions of dollars. 
The people of South Australia have clearly shown that they want development, such as the Roxby Downs development. The Liberal Government will see that this occurs. The project would involve a capital investment of more than $2,000m and employ 5,000 people. It would also indirectly create 50,000 jobs. The Labor Party in South Australia would have denied the people this enormous economic development and the benefit that that would bring to the living standards of South Australians. The Labor Government and its federal counterparts had a similar capacity to cause a drought of investment funds when in office. During Labor's term in office little or no oil exploration took place in this country. Today Australia is only 70 per cent self-sufficient in motor spirit. Indeed, Australia has had to import up to 60 per cent of some of the specialised fuels, such as avgas. This situation would not have occurred if the development of oilfields and refineries had not been retarded during those three tragic years of Labor government. Already the fuel policy of the Fraser Government has resulted in an improvement of an additional 600 million to 700 million barrels. 
The Leader of the Opposition, and those who follow him, have hurled destructive criticism at the Government during this debate. Not once has the Opposition offered one constructive suggestion which could provide any alternative economic strategy. It is very easy to condemn the Government for its strategy and it is very easy to be critical, but it is not easy to deliver the goods, and this Government has in fact been delivering the goods on the economic front. When it comes to policy areas, such as health insurance policy, the Opposition is in total confusion. The Leader of the Opposition, in his address to the annual conference on the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party on 3 June 1978, said: 
Let me say this plainly. Labor will restore Medibank. It remains one of our highest priorities consistent with responsible handling of the economy. 
The Leader of the Opposition also said: 
The restoration of Medibank is a universal protection for all Australians and will be achieved as quickly as we can manage it 
Speaking at a public meeting in Geraldton in Western Australia in June of this year, the Leader of the Opposition again pledged that Labor would bring back Medibank as quickly as it could. On 19 July of this year the Australian Labor Party considered this matter at its national conference in Adelaide. The Leader of the Opposition said: 
We are committed to a staged restoration of Medibank. The first step will be taken in our first year of office. 
At that time the shadow Minister for Health- the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)-  presented a policy for a universal health scheme financed by an income-related contribution. The emphasis is on the words income-related contributions'. The honourable member was not open enough to say that a Labor government would increase taxes. Instead he used the euphemism 'income-related contribution'. The honourable member did not use the words 'tax' or 'levy'. So what he said, really, was that a Labor government would introduce a universal health scheme financed by a tax or levy. Obviously since the Adelaide conference someone in the Australian Labor Party has attempted to work out the costs because a week or two ago, in his speech in this debate, the honourable member for Prospect said: 
The figures that I have estimated for a return to Medibank- I am not saying that that is what one should be aiming at- 
This is a curious comment and well worth contemplating. I do not disagree with the honourable member for Prospect. In fact I think he is generally known in this House for his very high degree of frankness and honesty. It is obvious that he is not completely satisfied that a return to a universal health insurance scheme such as the previous Medibank scheme would be good for Australia. In fact he probably has a sneaking suspicion that if a Labor government were to restore that type of health insurance scheme the medical profession would have a capacity to withdraw subsidy from it quicker than a government would have a capacity to pour money into the system. That is largely due to the type of system that we have in this country and which I think we will have for many years to come; that is, the fee for service system. It is debatable whether we should have that form of system. Nonetheless, it is the system that exists in this country. I think there is a high degree of doubt on the part of the honourable member for Prospect about the wisdom or the desirability of a reintroduction of that form of expensive health insurance. The great cost explosion that has been associated with health insurance generally needs to be taken into account. Any fee for service system that does not have brakes and checks in it will ultimately break down under its own burden of cost. 
In spite of the decision at the Adelaide conference that if elected a future Labor government would return to Medibank, albeit in stages, it should be emphasised that a return to Medibank in 1979-80 would directly cost taxpayers at least $ 1,000m in medical benefit payments alone. By comparison, the estimated cost of medical benefit payments in a full year under the present scheme would be well in excess of $500m. A return to Medibank not only would encourage doctors to provide more medical services but also people would undoubtedly use them at a very high level. I emphasise that the number of medical services provided in 1974-75 grew by 13 per cent. In 1975 they increased by 28.5 per cent. Those figures may be arguable. It may be that there are lags associated with those figures so far as statisticians are concerned. But nobody can hide the fact that during the Labor term of office there was a very rapid rise in the rate of use of medical services because people were often inclined to believe that they were free. Therefore they had no reason to worry about the costs. I think that in some instances people were encouraged to believe that this was true. By comparison the average growth in medical services since 1976 has been less than 5 per cent. If medical service growth under Labor had continued the cost of reintroducing Medibank would be substantially higher than the $ 1,000m figure that I mentioned a moment ago. 
The Labor record in health, for which the Leader of the Opposition had an important responsibility, is more than typical of its record of wanton irresponsibility. I refer for instance to the open-ended hospital cost sharing agreements with the States; the absence of medical services committees of inquiry in each State; the unbelievable 94.4 per cent increase in doctors fees for benefit purposes; the frauds; the rip-offs and the great health cost explosion. During Labor's term of office total health costs exploded from $2,505m to $5,660m. If people complain about the high cost of health insurance premiums they need to remember that they are paying a high price for the Labor years of extravagance. Health costs accelerated at the following annual rates: During the first year of the term of office of the Labor Government health costs rose by 20 per cent; in the second year they rose by 36.6 per cent and in the third year they rose by 37.7 per cent. Whereas, in our first three years of office the annual rates of increase have been reduced progressively as follows: In the first year of the Liberal-National Country Party Government's term of office the increase was 14.13 per cent; in the second year, 10.7 per cent and in the third year less than 10 per cent. 
I hope that I have contributed to putting into some perspective the incredible attack on the Budget by the Opposition. No attack on the Government's economic record can deny that the Government has been successful in reducing inflation in spite of external inflationary pressures, due firstly to world wide petroleum price increases; secondly, agricultural product increases, including meat price rises; thirdly, raw material price increases. Australia is doing better than most countries in the western world. Our inflation rate of 9 per cent is lower than the average rate of 12.9 per cent in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. The most recent Budget will continue to exert a downward pressure on inflation. 
The restoration of twice yearly indexation of pensions undoubtedly will be of great benefit to the aged people of the Australian community. Of course we all welcome the increased accessibility of over 200,000 pensioners and their dependants to health benefit cards. This will be of great assistance to them in obtaining medical care at no cost to them in most circumstances, and also in obtaining pharmaceutical benefits. I would like to add that the Government is looking seriously at a number of options to try to assist disadvantaged people to obtain pharmaceutical benefits at no cost to them. I hope that we can overcome the present problem in the not too distant future. The Government will continue to help to restore confidence in the investment sector of the economy. I believe that this is a good and responsible Budget. It will continue to help to mend the damage that was done to the Australian economy by the former Labor Government. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) (i) $SI.4S a week, (ii) $103.70 a week (including additional benefit for spouse and children) 
(i) Not applicable, (ii) $8.50 a week approximatelythe rate is $36.90 a month) 
The total of unemployment benefits and family allowances for a married couple with two dependent children is approximately $ 1 12.20 a week. 
Seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings per employed male unit (AWE) for June quarter 1979 (the latest available) are estimated by the Australian Bureau of Statistics to be $231.40. The rate of unemployment benefit payable to a single adult represents 22.2 per cent of this figure. 
(a) The rate of unemployment benefit payable to a married adult with a dependent spouse and two dependent children represents 44.8 per cent of seasonally adjusted AWE for the June quarter 1 979. 
The rate of family allowances for two dependent children represents approximately 3.7 per cent of the same figure. 
The total of unemployment benefits and family allowance for a married couple with two dependent children represents approximately 48.5 per cent of preliminary seasonally adjusted AWE for the June quarter 1979. 
and (5) There are serious difficulties in attempting to provide valid and reliable international comparisons of unemployment benefit rates. The International Labour Office has stated ('Social Security for the Unemployed ', 1 976 page 18): 
There are probably as many unemployment benefit formulae as there are schemes, and quoting random national examples of them for international comparison would at best be meaningless, if only because their value to the recipients depends on other factors such as benefit duration, the number of waiting days, if any, and the treatment of family allowances, if any, during the benefit period- factors which, like the operation of earning ceilings in contribution and benefit calculation, can influence the actual structure of benefit rates enacted'. 
These difficulties are compounded for comparisons between countries with social insurance systems providing partly or wholly earnings-related benefits and Australia's social security system with its non-contributory flat-rate benefits. In addition to the problems outlined above in determining benefit rates for other countries there are problems because in many cases, there are limits on the duration of benefits paid under social insurance schemes. No such limits apply in Australia. (It is true that unemployed persons who exhaust their entitlements to unemployment benefits under social insurance schemes may be supported by other measures but the value of such assistance is usually below the rates of unemployment insurance benefits.) Also, social insurance schemes may not cover new entrants to the workforce, such as school leavers who have had no opportunity to contribute to such schemes. International comparisons of unemployment benefits as a percentage of average earnings are even less reliable because different countries use different definitions of earnings in their published statistics. The International Labour Office, in its 'Year Book of Labour Statistics', brings together earnings figures for a large number of countries but relies on data published by the countries themselves in compiling the information. 
The honourable member may, nevertheless, find useful the following table showing for various countries unemployment benefits in 1975 as a percentage of wages lost by a worker who had a wife and two children and received the 1 974 average weekly wage in manufacturing. 
With the exception of Australia, the figures have been derived from page 68 of 'An International Review of Unemployment Insurance Schemes' by Saul J. Blaustein and Isabel Craig, published in January 1977 by the W. E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research. The table gives only a broad indication of the comparative relationship between levels of unemployment benefit and wages in the countries concerned and should therefore be taken as no more than a general guide. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) From 1 3 December 1 97 1 to 3 1 August 1 979. 
330m2. 
This regional office has been relocated to office space at Bell and High Streets, Preston, because there was insufficient space available for the establishment of a fully decentralised regional office at the Northland Shopping Complex. 
The majority of clients from the office that operated from the Northland Shopping Complex will continue to receive Social Security services from the relocated Preston Office. The balance of clients are being catered for by the regional offices at Greensborough (which has been expanded ) and Heidelberg. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of the claim that an Aboriginal Liaison Officer and his family may have been exposed to radiation at Nabarlek in the Northern Territory. I understand that the claim was originally made to a member of the staff of the Office of the Supervising Scientist. The Supervising Scientist very properly referred the report to the Northern Territory Department of Mines and Energy, which is the supervising authority responsible for the regulation of all uranium mining activity in the Northern Territory. 
Code of Practice on Radiation  (Question No. 4602) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3) and (4) The only uranium mining carried out in Australia since 1972 has been in Queensland and that State's authorities are responsible for the regulation of all aspects of the uranium mining there. 
My Department's Australian Radiation Laboratory (ARL) has, of course, been available for consultation on any radiation matters but, although claims, as yet unsubstantiated, have been made, ARL knows of no specific breaches of the maximum radiation dose permitted to a member of the public under the Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Millingof Radioactive Ores. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) This report, which was financed in part by the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH and MRC) has been drawn to my attention and has also been studied by my Department. (3)I have asked the NH and MRC to examine these problems urgently. Because of the complex nature of the subject this examination requires some time, and advice and recommendations from Council are not expected before October. On receipt of this advice I will be in a better position to indicate desirable goals and appropriate guidelines designed to ensure the maintenance of proper health standards and to protect Australians from the adverse effects detailed in the report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 understand that the United States Environmental Protection Agency has been examining whether water containing asbestos fibres could lead to cancer and that its report on the matter is near completion. I have requested a copy of the report but at this stage am unable to say what it may contain on this matter. 
In Canberra, only minor use is made of asbestos cement pipes in water supply systems. Such pipes were laid in isolated areas in the older parts of Canberra but only in small quantities. The present policy is that asbestos cement pipes may be used in situations such as: 
for lawn watering and irrigation supplies from lakes and rivers; 
extensive rural supplies outside the Canberra city area. 
As far as Sydney and other Australian cities are concerned, the information sought by the honourable member is not within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistical information on the incidence of asbestosrelated disease is available from the New South Wales Dust Diseases Board, Victorian Health Commission and the Western Australian Department of Public Health. 
New South Wales Factories, Shops and Industries Act, 1962. Factories (Health and Safety- Asbestos Processes) Regulation, 1977. 
Victorian Labour and Industry (Asbestos) Regulations 1978. 
Queensland Asbestos Rule, Factories and Shop Act ( 1960-68), Section 38, Rule 9. 
South Australian Industrial Code Regulations under the Industrial Safety, Health and Welfare Act, Section 39, (1972-78). 
Western Australian Asbestos Regulations, 1978. 
Yes. For many years my Department has conducted applied research on the estimation of airborne asbestos dust, the results of which are to be found in the National Health and Medical Research Council publication 'Membrane Filter Method for Estimating Airborne Asbestos Dust'. 
More recently my Department has set up a Mesothelioma Registry at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. By the means of this registry, the relationship between occupational exposure to asbestos and mesothelioma tumours will be researched. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The possibility of collecting statistics on Aboriginals in receipt of social security payments by means of an additional question on application forms is currently under examination. 
Statistics on the numbers of Aboriginals whose entitlement to social security pensions, benefits or allowances could be established if they applied are also not available. To arrive at a reliable figure would require far more information than is currently available about the characteristics of the Aboriginal population. 
In the absence of data about the number of Aboriginals receiving social security payments and those whose entitlement to such payments could be established if they applied, it is not possible to provide the information requested. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 4299 provided by the Minister for Administrative Services. (See  Hansard,  1 1 September 1979, page 972). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Administrative Services on 1 1 September 1979 to Question No. 4299  (Hansard,  pages 972-3). 
I am aware that the coal mining industry is a dangerous industry, although in New South Wales, according to the latest Joint Coal Board report, in the last five years there has been a significant drop in the number of fatalities. I think the figures dropped by about half of the number of fatalities in the preceding five years. So, quite clearly, the safety measures that are being employed in the industry are making the industry much safer for the miners. However, I am aware of the great consternation of the people of Kurri Kurri about the suggested change in the status of their hospital. The honourable gentleman brought the matter to my attention some time ago. I have had a number of telegrams and representations, all of which I have sent on to my colleague the Minister for Health in New South Wales. The New South Wales Minister for Health is aware that the Commonwealth Government was successful in allocating to New South Wales no less than $438m, which is 14 per cent more - 
Fourteen per cent more than it received last year as the Commonwealth's contribution towards the net operating costs of the hospitals in that State. The Commonwealth Government allocated to the New South Wales Government sufficient resources to allow the hospital operation to continue at existing levels of activity- they were the levels of 1978-79 - whilst the national inquiry into hospitals is under way. But the New South Wales Government has chosen to open Westmead and a number of other new units around the State and has chosen to change the status of some of the other hospitals in Sydney, in some of our country areas and certainly at Kurri Kurri. 
I will join with the honourable gentleman in representations to  Mr Stewart,  the New South Wales Minister for Health. I have taken the liberty of talking to the regional director for the Hunter region and he has given me an assurance that he will talk to the hospital board at Kurri Kurri and see whether some variation can be made to satisfy the concern of the people living in that town and district. I do take seriously the concern of the honourable member for Hunter. I think it would be reprehensible on the part of the New South Wales Health Commission and the Government of New South Wales to reduce the status of the Kurri Kurri Hospital to that of a nursing home. 
My attention has been drawn to the article that appeared in the 8 September edition of the  Medical Journal of Australia.  For the information of the honourable member, I point out that the current policy in relation to herbal remedies is to allow importation of those products included in what is called a 'safe list', provided no therapeutic claims are made for the products and evidence of quality and /or identity is available. The 'safe list' contains the herbal tea to which the honourable gentleman has referred. In view of the article and the recent Californian study which was reported upon in that article, and in view of the honourable gentleman's concern, I have asked my Department to undertake a thorough study of the particular brand of herbal tea mentioned and other herbal teas that are being imported into Australia. I have asked the Department to furnish a report to the Government on what action, if any, should be taken to protect the health of the Australian people. 
I am most concerned about the case to which the honourable member has referred. I have directed that where hospital staff performs a procedure and a specialist undertakes aftercare only- I think this is what happened in the case to which the honourable gentleman referred- the benefit payable for the specialist service shall be limited to SO per cent of the benefit payable under the item for the procedure- in this case the treatment of a fracture. In the specific case referred to, the specialist, after being approached by the Capital Territory Health Commission, has agreed to submit an account not exceeding the benefit payable in accordance with this general direction. I regard this whole area as one of great concern. I think that it will be the subject of considerable inquiry in the course of the national inquiry into hospitals. Clearly there is a need to redefine the policies in respect of such referrals within the hospital system. I thank the honourable gentleman for bringing this matter to the attention of the Commission and me as the Minister. We have taken action to try to ensure that justice is done to the patient concerned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government has decided to seek a buyer for the shares in the Fawnmac group of companies. The Department of Administrative Services, by public advertisement, has invited expressions of interest from persons or companies who may be interested in purchasing the shares. The final decision on sale will be made by the Government following the second round of negotiations whereby firm offers will be invited from registrants. 
(a) The Government proposes to introduce legislation for amendments to the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories (C.S.L.) Act, which will include removal of the present limitation which restricts C.S.L. to the production of biological products. In this way, the Commonwealth would be able to maintain a presence in the non-biological pharmaceutical production area if this was necessary in the national interest. 
No disabilities are expected to result to C.S.L. in regard to contracts with Fawnmac. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Imported cut flowers are inspected on arrival in Australia. If live insect pests or mites are detected on the cut flowers, fumigation with methyl bromide is ordered. If live snails or slugs are present in numbers, the import is not permitted. 
The above precautions will take care of live insects associated with cut flowers. In addition, examination is made for evidence of disease. If disease is found, appropriate treatment or destruction is ordered. As well, only cut flowers not capable of growing are released. For some flowers, a treatment to make them not capable of growing is required. 
I am satisfied that the foregoing inspections and treatments provide adequate safeguards to preclude inspects and diseases becoming established by means of imported cut flowers. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Health is not responsible for any programs and policies in regard to prospective migrants. However it does medically examine migrants and reports on whether they can satisfy the medical standards for entry to Australia. These standards are developed by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs after consultation with the Department of Health. There have been no major changes in medical standards since 1 970. 
In respect of post-arrival services for migrants, the Department is responsible for implementing two recommendations of the Galbally Report viz: 
Recommendation 22- development and dissemination of information on health care in community languages. 
Recommendation 39- employment of additional ethnic health workers. 
As well, the Department contributes generally to the implementation of Recommendation 43- special problems of migrant women. 
In addition, the honourable member will be aware of my announcement on 22 August 1979 of the Government's initiative concerning the employment of additional interpreters and translators in health services that is being implemented by my Department. 
and (3) Assistance is available to the States and the Northern Territory under the Community Health Program to employ the additional ethnic health workers and the additional interpreters and translators mentioned. Expenditure in 1978-79 in respect of the former initiative is not yet available. In the current financial year, $ 1 10,000 has been appropriated to meet 100 per cent ofthe cost of these ethnic health workers; $700,000 will be provided over a three-year period. In 1980-81 and 1981-82 the Commonwealth will meet 75 per cent of the cost. Financial assistance for the employment of additional health interpreters and translators was announced in the .1 979-80 Budget hence no expenditure has yet been incurred. However an amount of $2.4m is to be provided, of which $940,000 has been appropriated this financial year to meet 100 per cent of the cost. In the following two financial years, the Commonwealth will meet 75 per cent of the cost. 
Expenditure associated with the other activities mentioned in ( 1 ) is by way of salaries and overhead expenses. No dissection is available to provide accurately the information requested over the past 10 years. However, as a guide, the cost of employing 16 people, some full time and others part time, on the above tasks, at current salary levels, plus an overhead for on-costs, approximates $0.5m. This amount represents 0.64 per cent of my Department's proposed administrative expenses in 1 979-80. (4), ( 5 ), (6) and ( 7 ) See ( I ) above. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I ) The maximum rate of unemployment benefit applicable to a married person, a person who has attained the age of 2 1 years or a person under 2 1 years of age with no parent in Australia, is directly reduced by income in excess of $6 a week. - (2) and (3) Entitlement to unemployment benefit does not depend solely on the operation of the income test. An unemployed person must also be capable of undertaking and willing to undertake, full time work. He must be registered for full time work with the Commonwealth Employment Service and be making efforts on his own behalf to obtain work. He will be expected to accept casual, short-term, temporary and pan-time work provided it pays the appropriate award or going rate. 
Whether the income test reduces incentive to work is largely a matter of personal judgment because factors other than monetary return are often important influences on a person 's decision to accept work. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes; the proposal to participate was examined initially by the IYC Events Task Force, a committee which included representatives of all State Ministers responsible for IYC as well as representatives of the Commonwealth and Territory Ministers and the National Committee of Non-Government Organizations. This body recommended to the Commonwealth, State and Territory Ministers that Australia should participate, and that two escorts should accompany the children. The Ministers unanimously endorsed this recommendation at a meeting in Adelaide on 9 February 1 979. 
Yes; Miss Elizabeth Lucas. 
No. Miss Lucas and an officer on the staff of the Australian Embassy in Mexico supervised the Australian children while in Mexico. 
No. The cost of the services of Australian employees acting in the ordinary course of their duties and their incidental telephone calls were regarded as general overheads. 
Aboriginal Self -management  (Question No. 4663) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(i) $69.60, (ii) $93.10, (iii) $1 1 1.90, (iv) $130.70, (v) $149.60, (vi) $168.40, (vii) $89.40, (viii) $108.20, (ix) $ 127.00, (x)$ 145.80. 
(i) $56.40, (ii) $79.90, (iii) $98.80, (iv) $1 17.60, (v) $136.40, (vi) $155.20, (vii) $76.20, (viii) $95.00, (ix) $1 13.80, (x)$ 132.60. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) While my Department does not undertake or commission opinion polls, considerable survey work is undertaken in conjunction with its evaluation of ongoing programs, internal administrative arrangements and overall assessment of the welfare needs of the community. 
The Research Information System maintained by my Department indicates that since 1975 the Department has been involved in 87 research projects, excluding Commission of Inquiry into Poverty and Social Welfare Commission undertakings. 
The following table shows the number of research projects which have included surveys carried out in each year since 1975: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) An income test on age pension increases for persons aged 70 years and over was announced in the 1978-79 Budget Speech and first applied to the pension increases which came into effect in November 1 978. 
It is estimated that about $l4m of expenditure was saved in 1978-79 as a result of this measure. Savings in 1979-80 are estimated to be of the order of $65m. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Abolition of the maternity allowance was announced in the 1978-79 Budget Speech in respect of births occurring after 31 October 1978. 
It is estimated that there were savings of the order of $4m in 1978-79 in respect of births occurring in the period from 1 November 1978 to 30 June 1979. The savings in 1 979-80 are estimated to be of the order of $7m. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) The standard (single) rate of pension will be increased in November 1979 from $53.20 to $57.90 a week under the existing indexation formula. 
b) The highest proportion of seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings per employed male unit reached by the standard rate of pension between the March quarter 1970 and the June quarter 1 979 was 24.00 per cent; the lowest was 17.5 percent. 
The information sought by the honourable member refers to November 1979 and cannot be provided until average weekly earnings figures for the December quarter 1979 become available. Based on the latest available figure for seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings per employed male unit ($231.40 in the June quarter 1979), the information sought by the honourable member is: 
1 ) $55.55 a week; and (ii) $40.50 a week. 
(i) December quarter 1978. (ii) September quarter 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Waiting times for eligible pensioners seeking hearing tests at National Acoustic Laboratories Hearing Centres are calculated at the end of each month and because the formula used is biased towards this it is not possible to provide waiting times as at 14 September 1979. 
However the waiting times as 3 1 August 1 979 were- 
The honourable gentleman imputes to the Government and me motives for engaging in an advertising campaign to awaken the Australian people to the fact that no Commonwealth benefit is payable for medical fees up to $20 as from 1 September. I would be very concerned indeed if a significant percentage of the Australian people were unaware of that fact. The Commonwealth Government will meet the schedule fees for medical services over $20, but as from 1 September fees up to $20 will not be subsidised, except for pensioners with a pensioner health benefit card or disadvantaged patients. Of course, disadvantaged patients can have their medical services billed direct to the Department of Health. 
There is certainly no intention on the part of the Government to advertise on behalf of the funds, the Australian Medical Association or anybody else. The campaign is designed purely and simply to warn people of the facts. I would feel very guilty indeed if people went on thinking that they would continue to be covered for 40 per cent of the schedule fee up to $20 and found when they submitted their accounts that they received no benefit for fees for general practitioner consultations, et cetera, up to $20. The whole purpose of the exercise is to warn people of that fact. If people want benefits they will need to take out private medical insurance. 
Disadvantaged people who cannot afford private insurance will have their services billed direct to the Department of Health, as is the practice at present. There is no great complaint about this scheme. It is working very well. Services are being direct billed to my Department. In fact the number of services that are being direct billed now is not much different from the number that were being direct billed prior to 1 November last year when bulk billing was available to all people. It is quite idle to say that doctors are not direct billing disadvantaged patients. Of course they are. 
I make it very clear that the Australian people would be very wise indeed to maintain their health insurance. If they want the right to choose which doctor treats them in hospital, of course they will need to maintain their hospital insurance. That is a matter for the individual. Clearly the individual has shown a great disposition to choose his doctor. That is a matter for people generally to decide, but I do advise people either to maintain their medical and hospital insurance or, if they are not insured, to insure. 
I have received letters from student nurses in New South Wales complaining that, although they will be completing their examinations on 16 October, they have no indication of any job opportunities within the hospital system in the State of New South Wales. Unfortunately, I have no direct responsibility for the employment of nurses, whether they be student or graduate nurses in New South Wales. That happens to be a responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Health in New South Wales, who has been engaging in a quite extraordinary propaganda campaign. I would be the last one to want to get into a slanging match with  Mr Stewart.  But I am afraid that the truth must be told. The New South Wales Minister has, in fact, received 1 4 per cent more in - 
Fourteen per cent more in Commonwealth funds than he received last year. The New South Wales Government is receiving a greater percentage increase than any other State in this Commonwealth. In fact the New South Wales Government is receiving $54.2m more this year than it received last year for its hospital system. But the New South Wales Minister happens to be making the most noise of all Ministers in the Commonwealth. Obviously his policy is that the more one gets the louder one screams. I ask honourable members to listen to what I have to say about what he has chosen to do. Are all honourable members listening? 
Yes, he even threatened to close half the hospitals in the Gwydir electorate. Oh, no; he is carrying it too far! He is going ahead to open the new units as Westmead, Liverpool, Gosford and Albury, but as he is opening these new units he is closing other units m the central - 
Oh, no. We are having a national inquiry into hospitals. I thought that he would have shown more political sense and a little more understanding of the problems had he waited until that report - 
-Let me finish.  Mr Speaker,  I appeal to you for protection.  Mr Stewart  should have waited for the recommendations of the national inquiry into hospitals before creating such insecurity amongst the nursing staff of New South Wales. I am sorry that I cannot do much about the situation. I have done all I can do. We have given New South Wales 14 per cent more than it received last year to maintain services at existing levels during the course of that national inquiry. If the New South Wales Government chooses to open new units and close existing units, that is the responsibility of the New South Wales Government. I am afraid that  Mr Stewart  must face up to his own responsibilities and take the blame for his own actions. 
The Leader of the Opposition of course is well aware of the constitutional limitations on the powers of the Commonwealth Government in controlling fees, salaries and wages. In fact there have been a number of referendums at which the people have been invited to give additional powers to the Commonwealth to enable it to control wages, salaries, prices, et cetera. On each occasion the people have overwhelmingly rejected the transfer of that power to the Commonwealth Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the matter of drugs and poisons, including pesticides, the National Health and Medical Research Council makes recommendations to the States and Territories for inclusion in appropriate legislation. The basis of the uniformity in the scheduling and labelling of substances is the Uniform Poisons Standard of Council. In this Standard there are almost fourteen hundred entries for chemicals which are described as poisonous and hazardous. The ultimate control of the substances listed lies with the individual States and Territories. Although one can say that, by and large, the recommendations of Council are followed in principle, there are differences in the State legislation due to such factors as geography and the availability of such retail outlets as pharmacies. There is, however, a substantial degree of uniformity in poisons legislation in the States and Territories and instances of non-uniformity often concern matters of dosages and, by and large, are considered to be minor. 
With respect to packaging and labelling of food, substantial uniformity already exists due to the adoption of the National Health and Medical Research Council Approved Standards by the States and Territories. In addition, the Joint Commonwealth/State/Territory Working Party on Model Food Law, established by the Conference of Australian Health Ministers, has virtually completed the formulation of the Model Food Act and associated Regulations which are intended for uniform application throughout Australia. It is anticipated that, when the Model Food Act and Regulations are enacted by the States and Territories, there will be uniformity in food legislation throughout Australia, including those aspects relating to packaging and labelling. 
A detailed answer on every aspect of the fourteen hundred entries for chemicals would represent an extremely extensive exercise at State and Commonwealth levels. Such detailed information could not be obtained without a commitment of staff time and expense which I am reluctant to authorise with the present need for restraint. 
Within the past year the Prime Minister has written to State Premiers expressing his concern at the current lack of uniformity in packaging and labelling laws in Australia and inviting participation in discussions between the Commonwealth and States which would cover methods of improving the uniformity in these areas. These discussions would concern wider aspects of those relevant to the recommendations of the National Health and Medical Research Council, e.g. such matters as unit pricing and deceptive packaging. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No site has yet been chosen for a rehabilitation centre in the western region of Melbourne. Prior to considering any such action, it is my department's intention, during the next financial year, to establish alocally-based rehabilitation casework team in the western region of Melbourne, possibly as pan of an existing departmental regional office within the area. 
The team, which would consist initially of a medical consultant, vocational counsellor and social worker, would have the task of identifying cases from within the area who may be suitable for rehabilitation assistance. The team would also be responsible for setting up and co-ordinating rehabilitation treatment and training programs which, wherever practicable, would be locally-based and would utilise appropriate existing services in order to lessen any inconvenience to handicapped people living in the area. 
Experience gained by the Department in the operation of similar casework teams which it has located in a number of provincial areas, confirms the wisdom of having a casework team based in an area prior to taking any action towards the establishment of a permanent rehabilitation facility. The department's new regional rehabilitation centre in Townsville was established in this manner and is already showing the advantages of such an approach. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (4) This information is not available in the form sought. Statistics of primary producers receiving unemployment benefit are collected at four-weekly intervals by my Department. Tables showing these figures for dates from 20 January 1978 to 11 May 1979 have been prepared but are too voluminous for incorporation in  Hansard.  Copies are available in my office and a copy has been forwarded separately to the honourable member. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Ten. This figure includes five matters which are part heard, three which have been referred for legal advice and two matters where prosecution has not yet commenced. So far as the three matters which have been referred for advice are concerned, it is not possible to state at this stage whether or not prosecutions will follow. 
Misdescription of services provided, so that a higher rate of benefit is paid than that applicable to the service actually provided. Some examples include exaggeration of time spent at consultation and describing in-hours services as outofhours services. 
The length of time these matters have been pending varies from four weeks to over two years. Delays are often due to adjournments and committals from magistrates courts for trial by jury. For example, an enquiry of very long standing in New South Wales has resulted in a doctor being committed for trial and the trial is not listed to commence until August 1980. It is also appropriate to mention that five weeks have been set aside to deal with this matter. 
Reasons for delay vary from consideration of the legal position to practical problems associated with availability of witnesses, courts, magistrates and judges. 
Action is proceeding and it is not possible to say when all matters will finally be resolved. One trial is due to commence shortly and another cannot commence until some expert evidence is available. The complexity of these matters may be gauged by reference to the South Australian experience where one case involving a doctor heard before a magistrate turned out to be the longest running summary matter in South Australian legal history and another matter recently concluded before a judge and jury proceeded over 72 sitting days. 
Film 'The Land My Mother'  (Question No. 4482) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The difference between appropriation and expenditure arises because the appropriation was for the support of two research studies by the Australian Medical Association (AMA) but the rate of expenditure on the projects was slower than anticipated. The two studies are: criteria audit of carcinoma of the cervix being undertaken at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney; and surgical audit based on patient outcome being undertaken at St Vincent's Hospital, Melbourne. 
The $36,000 represented the balance of the $100,000 made available to the AMA in 1976 to facilitate the Association's action aimed at introducing systems of peer review into Australia. Provision has been made for the further support of the two studies in 1979-80 by way of health services research and development grants. 
The responsibility for introducing systems of peer review does not rest solely with the Commonwealth; indeed, the introduction of such systems could not proceed without the co-operation and initiative of the medical profession and State health authorities because the Commonwealth does not have responsibility for the actual provision of health services nor administration of the systems used in the provision of services. 
On the Commonwealth's part, it is enthusiastic in its support of activities concerned with peer review. Since 1976-77 it has provided some Sim for the support of activities directly concerned with peer review. Of this $ 1 m, $ 1 50,000 has been allocated to the AMA for the support of a wide range of activities including the establishment in conjunction with the Australian Council on Hospital Standards, of the Peer Review Resources Centre. The Centre is of particular importance because it provides a reference point from which expert advice and assistance can be provided to doctors and other personnel in the health services who wish to develop peer review systems; and $850,000 has been allocated to the support of independent research studies into matters directly associated with the development of peer review systems. 
The Government has provided $1.8m in 1979-80 for health services research and development grants and a high priority will be given to grant applications which address peer review issues. 
While it is not possible to estimate a precise figure, the Commonwealth also makes a significant contribution to the development of peer review systems through the hospital cost-sharing arrangements under which the Commonwealth meets 50 per cent of the agreed net operating costs of recognised hospitals. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Not all chronic conditions require continuous specialist treatment. Ideally the specialist orders a course of treatment to be supervised by the patient's general practitioner. 
Yes, if they wish to qualify for the higher rate of medical benefits for the charges raised by the specialist 
The fact that a new referral is issued after 12 months does not necessarily mean that the specialist would charge an initial consultation fee which would attract the higher rate of benefit. However, where the specialist has not seen the person for a considerable period, or is commencing a new, or reassessing the current, course of treatment it would not be unreasonable for the initial consultation fee to be charged. 
Because of the wide and to some extent unpredictable variations in circumstances which may arise in relation to medical treatment, there are obvious difficulties in developing referral procedures to meet all cases. From the viewpoint of any particular individual who is fortunate enough not to require the services of a general practitioner between annual visits to a specialist, the system may be seen as involving some personal inconvenience and small added expense. From the viewpoint of efficient and economical administration of the Medical Benefits Scheme, it is a necessary safeguard against unnecessary expenditure by the Commonwealth and by the health insurance funds. The amount of medical benefits paid for visits to general practitioners to obtain referral renewals once a year would undoubtedly be less than that involved in paying the higher rates of medical benefits for visits to specialist for attention to conditions that could be adequately cared for by general practitioners, which is regarded as being the likely result if there were no referral system or if no limit were placed on the life of referrals. This is particularly relevant where, as frequently occurs, the specialist recommends a course of treatment which can then be supervised by the general practitioner, with only occasional reassessment by the specialist. 
With some 35 million specialist services each year, of which only a small proportion relate to continuing treatment by specialists of chronic illnesses, it would be administratively impracticable to consider each individual service separately to decide whether or not a new referral should be required in that particular case. The only practical course is to lay down a system which is capable of uniform application. 
Since 1970 there have been a number of reviews of the referral system undertaken by my Department in conjunction with the Australian Medical Association. The latest review was specifically directed at the question of treatment of chronic illnesses. The outcome of each review has been the general consensus' that the system is necessary, is a good one, and is working satisfactorily in the overall interests of the Medical Benefits Scheme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The Australian Radiation Laboratory does provide a radiation monitoring service at Nabarlek. This service is available to uranium mining companies as an extension of the normal national film badge service although the severe temperature and humidity conditions encountered at uranium mines have required the development by the Laboratory of a new badge using thermoluminescent phosphors in lieu of the normal radiation sensitive film. 
The badges are normally worn for a period of 4 weeks and then returned to the Laboratory for processing. Total radiation exposures for the wearing period are reported to the mining company and to the Northern Territory supervisory authorities. 
The highest exposure recorded for any individual at Nabarlek up to 14 September 1979 (when the latest series of badges was recalled) is 378 millirem accumulated over a 6 week period thus corresponding to an average rate of 63 millirem per week. 
It is difficult to provide a meaningful average figure for the entire workforce as it is distorted by the large number of employees who wear badges but whose work does not normally take them into areas of significant radiation and whose badges accordingly indicate only a normal background level of about 2 millirem per week. However, of those whose badges indicate exposures significantly above the normal background level the weekly rate lies within the range of 8 to 63 millirem per week with an average value of 27 millirem per week. 
Under the 1975 Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores which is currently in force in the Northern Territory, the maximum permitted whole body exposure for an occupationalry exposed employee is 5,000 millirem per year or approximately 100 millirem per week. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of this concern of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union. However the real threat to health arises from the existence of these zoonoses in our animal population rather than lack of research. 
The Government is therefore investing money in campaigns to eradicate brucellosis in animals thus removing the risk to human health. 
All requests for research funding of this type are considered on their merits by the independent scientific bodies concerned. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council, which is the body within my portfolio, advises that no application has been received this year from the Department of Mircobiology, University of Melbourne, for the support of a project related to brucellosis, although eight other research projects are currently being supported in that Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, I am informed that a particular research project involving bladder stimulation is being undertaken at the Prince of Wales and Prince Henry Hospitals in Sydney. I understand that it is too early yet to know whether the results of this particular form of treatment are encouraging enough to set up similar facilities in other major centres. 
The Isolated Patients' Travel and Accommodation Assistance Scheme (IPTAAS), authorised by the National Health Act, was developed to assist people living in remote areas of Australia who, following referral by a medical practitioner, are required to travel at least 200 kilometres for treatment by the nearest suitable medical specialist. It was not designed to assist people living in major metropolitan centres, such as Melbourne (which is regarded as a centre of medical excellence), who have ready access to specialists in each of the specialists groups listed by the National Specialist Qualifications Advisory Committee. There are a number of recognised medical specialists practising in Melbourne who are qualified to treat children with spina bifida. 
While I am fully sympathetic to the difficulties experienced by children suffering from spina bifida, I do not regard the problem you have raised as a matter for IPTAAS. As the provision of health care, which is considered appropriate for the citizens of each State, is primarily the responsibility of the State Government concerned, I feel it is a matter that should be taken up with the appropriate State authority. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Specialists in each of the specialist groups listed by the National Specialist Qualifications Advisory Committee, and therefore recognised for purposes of the Health Insurance Act, are located in each of these major metropolitan areas. However, there have been some cases where a patient has preferred -treatment by a particular specialist located outside the metropolitan area in which the patient lives. 
The Isolated Patients' Travel and Accommodation Assistance Scheme (IPTAAS), authorised by the National Health Act, was developed to assist people living in remote areas of Australia who, following referral by a medical practitioner, are required to travel at least 200 kilometres for treatment by the nearest suitable medical specialist. It was not designed to assist people living in major metropolitan centres who have ready access to specialists in each of the specialist groups listed by the National Specialist Qualifica- tions Advisory Committee. 
As the provision of health care, which is considered appropriate for the citizens of each State is primarily the responsibility of the State Government concerned, I would suggest that, enquiries regarding the availability of assistance in cases where treatment is sought in another capital city should be directed to the State Government concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Government still has its policy on the continued support of the manufacture of penicillin in Australia under consideration and, at an appropriate time, a statement will be made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The names and approved bed capacities of nursing homes located in the Electoral Division of St George as at 10 October 1979 are as follows: 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the DirectorGeneral of Health 1978-79. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Complaints have been received concerning the conditions which are applied to the import of orchid tissue cultures, specifically concerning the maximum allowable height of plants in culture. 
The conditions which have been applied to the import of tissue cultures are being reviewed by specialists in both the Plant Quarantine Branch and State Departments of Agriculture. The results of the review will be made public as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Although no general Australian survey in which deafness has been measured has been undertaken, the Australian 
Bureau of Statistics conducted a questionnaire survey in September 1978 which covered people aged15 years or more throughout Australia. People were considered to have a hearing problem if they reported having trouble hearing what people say. 
The report disclosed that 7.4 per cent of the population surveyed have a hearing problem. 
The reported relative incidence, as a percentage of population, among adults in each State or Territory is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The following table shows the statistics that are available at this time: 
-The purpose of tabling the Ralph report was to give the principal parties involved an opportunity to study the report and to give the Government an opportunity to assess the implications of the recommendations of that report. There have been discussions by my departmental officers, representatives of the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers' Association and members of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia. I have not yet had the opportunity of speaking with either the representation of the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers' Association or the Pharmacy Guild of Australia at an official level. However, I do anticipate that the Government will receive a response from the organisations in the next two or three weeks. As soon as the Government receives their comments on the report it will be in a position to take their views into account before reaching any decisions on the recommendations in the report. 
Pursuant to section 76A of the National Health Act 1953, 1 present the annual report on the operations of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In considering the question of ownership of registered benefits organisations regard must be had to the nature of their operations and the composition of management. 
There are three main categories of benefits organisations registered under the National Health Act, namely, companies (limited by guarantee), friendly societies (which are registered under State law) and the Health Insurance Commission (Medibank Private) which is registered under Commonwealth law (i.e. Health Insurance Commission Act). Friendly societies generally take two forms; the majority are attached to lodge movements (e.g. Manchester Unity) with the remainder of an industrial nature being employer/employee orientated. 
The benefits organisations are governed by boards of management (directors) who may or may not be contributors and who generally act in an honorary capacity. The actual functions of an organisation are generally earned out by executive staff who are responsible to the board of management. 
All health insurance organisations registered under the National Health Act are non-profit bodies. The income and expenditure of the medical and/or hospital funds they conduct are controlled under the provisions of sections 67 and 68 of the National Health Act. 
Having regard to the above, it is realistic to say that contributors, who may or may not have voting rights in the election of boards of management, can be regarded as the owners' of the registered benefits organisations, to the extent of their benefit entitlements under the rules of the particular organisation and the fact that under the provisions of the National Health Act dealing with the winding up of a medical and/or hospital fund, the Federal Court is required to make such order as it considers to be most advantageous for the' interests of the contributors '. 
and (3)- 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes, my Department in conjunction with the Australian Telecommunications Commission, has been conducting a routine review of eligibility of pensioners receiving the telephone rental concession. 
Yes, some pensioners' concessions have been withdrawn. To qualify for the concession a pensioner must be eligible for fringe benefits and be living alone, with another eligible pensioner or with another person whose income does not exceed $79.70 a week. If the income of a child or other resident exceeded $79.70 a week the pensioner would not be eligible for the concession. This would apply whether or not the child or other resident contributed towards the cost of the telephone, i.e., rental and calls. 
As part of the review pensioners not receiving the concessions who are eligible for fringe benefits were also advised of the conditions and were invited to apply if they felt they may have an entitlement. While it is not possible to identify the numbers of people who received the concession as a result of the invitation to apply, present indications are that there have been a significant number of new applications resulting from the review. 
In the last Budget, fringe benefit limits were extended and this will result in additional persons becoming eligible for the telephone rental concession. 
An additional $1.2m has been included in the Budget estimates for 1 979-80 to cover the increased numbers of persons qualifying for telephone rental concession. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Capital Territory Health Commission has not decided to discontinue the two-year nurse education course administered by the Royal Canberra Hospital. It has, however, decided that students entering the course in 1980 will be paid a student allowance in lieu of full salary as has been paid to date. Like all other State and Territory health authorities the Commission is examining its nurse education programs in the light of the recommendations contained in the Report of the Committee on Nurse Education and Training submitted to the Tertiary Education Commission in August 1 978 and the changing needs of the profession. 
Yes. There was direct consultation between the  Chairman  of the Commission and the RANF on the proposed changes to nurse education in the ACT. The Federation was also represented on the Committee of Inquiry into Nurse Education and Training. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to secure the future of the homeless persons welfare program by removing from the enabling legislation reference to a prescribed period. All honourable members will know that the prescribed period limits the period in which a project can be approved and in which rental subsidies and grants for fixtures and furnishings can be approved and paid. The allocation of funds for new capital projects will, of course, be decided at the appropriate time. Other subsidies under the Act, in relation to salaries, food, accommodation and meals, continue independently of this Bill. 
The Homeless Persons Assistance Act was introduced in 1974 for a three-year period. The Act provides for capital grants to be made to eligible organisations, which are defined as nonprofit organisations, local governing bodies and charitable or benevolent trusts, towards the full cost of purchasing, constructing or renting buildings, including the purchase of furniture and equipment. It also enables the Commonwealth to pay 50 per cent of the salary of a social welfare worker employed at a homeless persons assistance centre. Approved organisations may also be paid a daily subsidy at prescribed rates for each homeless person to whom both food and accommodation are provided at a daily rate of 75c, and a subsidy of 25c for each meal supplied to non-resident homeless persons. 
The introduction of the legislation in 1974 followed the 1 973 report of the Working Party on Homeless Men and Women. The report's recommendations highlighted the need to concentrate assistance on upgrading existing facilities for permanently and chronically homeless men and women. It also suggested that the program be reviewed after its initial three years. 
The prescribed period has been extended on two previous occasions. In each case, the extension has been accompanied by evaluation and review of the program. A report entitled 'A Place of Dignity' was tabled by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on 9 June 1978. Honourable members will recall that when the prescribed period of the Act was extended last year, it was indicated that the program was sufficiently well established to warrant discussions with State governments on their views about the sharing of responsibilities in this area. Following correspondence between the Prime 
Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and State Premiers, discussions have been held with State representatives nominated by the relevant Ministers. The Commonwealth has decided to maintain its commitment to the program, while working as closely as possible with the States. 
Since the program commenced, capital grants totalling $9.668m have been approved to upgrade, replace or construct facilities such as night shelters, reception and assessment centres, hostels, day centres and detoxification units. Of this amount, some $5.028m had been spent in the four years prior to 30 June 1 979 on facilities in all major cities. Further, an amount of $4m will be made available this financial year to build two major replacement hostels for homeless people in Brisbane. As I have indicated, the Government will be determining the provision of funds for new capital projects at the appropriate time. In total, 113 centres are approved at present. These provide overnight accommodation for 3,600 men and women. During 1978-79, a total of 947,380 persons were accommodated while 1,056,832 meals were made available to nonresidents. Rental subsidy of some $160,000 is being made available for 37 centres. Subsidies valued at $320,000 are also being provided for 44 social welfare workers at 40 centres. 
The program, by assisting with rental subsidies and social welfare worker subsidies, has been able to contribute to the development of the halfway house concept. Presently, there are 19 such centres in inner city suburbs approved as homeless persons assistance centres under the program. This allows for placement of clients in a residential setting while they are assisted in adjusting to the many demands of a different life style by social welfare workers funded under the program. It should be noted also that the program is not directed exclusively towards chronically homeless men and a number of centres cater exclusively for single homeless women. Some agencies in developing new hostels have taken the opportunity to provide accommodation for both men and women. These measures provide conditions which are in line with those of the community generally and thus assist in the rehabilitation of clients. 
In this regard, the definition of 'social welfare worker' has been interpreted in the widest possible sense under the program, the main criterion being that a worker provides a personal welfare service to homeless people. Although workers are attached to particular centres, the mobility of homeless people ensures their regular contact with workers. This makes available to homeless people a wide range of skills and expert assistance. We must not, however, lose sight of other programs which can provide assistance for homeless people. Honourable members will be aware of the youth services program under which $3 million has been offered to State Governments on a dollar-for-dollar basis for a pilot scheme over a three-year period. Amongst other things, that program will provide emergency accommodation for young people, concentrating on services which require recurrent funding, such as referral and counselling services. In addition, there are the family support services scheme, the community health program and the welfare housing programs. Each of these programs in its own way provides assistance for various categories of people in need. 
In determining the future of the homeless persons assistance program, all State advisory committees have presented their views to the Government. This direct advice highlighted the need for securing subsidy arrangements. Further consultation with these advisory bodies, and with the State authorities will undoubtedly improve the co-ordinated delivery of services. Against this background of assistance to homeless people of all categories, the advice of the advisory committees, and the valuations of the program, the deletion of the 'prescribed period ' from the Homeless Persons Assistance Act is a further demonstration of this Government's commitment to those in need. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Means tests are applied in Queensland in respect of the supply of certain prostheses, such as interim artificial limbs, through the Queensland public hospital system. A means test is not applied in respect of the supply of these items in New South Wales or any of the other States. 
Under the Commonwealth/State hospital cost-sharing agreements each State has undertaken to provide free of charge to hospital patients (or at no extra cost over and above the normal accommodation charge in respect of hospital insured or private patients), surgical supplies including agreed prostheses necessary for discharge. 
As the day-to-day administration of public hospitals remains a State responsibility, the lists of 'agreed prostheses' have been accepted as submitted by the States. It is the Queensland Government's decision that a means test be applied in respect of the supply of interim artificial limbs. The Commonwealth supports any move by Queensland to bring its list of agreed prostheses into line with that of New South Wales and the other States. 
Yes. Generally, the 'agreed prostheses', etc. provided by the States are the same as those that were provided through their respective hospital systems prior to the introduction of the original Medibank arrangements in 1975 and under the same conditions. 
I am advised that all definitive artificial limbs required by Australian residents may be obtained through the Free Limbs Scheme, administered by my colleague, the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs. Such limbs are provided free of charge to the patient, although the costs involved may be subsequently recovered when he or she in turn claims reimbursement in the form of workers compensation or thirdparty damages. 
Temporary or interim limbs, which are normally intended to be worn only over short periods and under medical supervision, are considered to be an integral part of the surgical management of the patient and are therefore more appropriately the responsibility of the hospital concerned. 
Convention for Prevention of Pollution from Ships  (Question No. 4577) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Over the past five years the Australian Council on Hospital Standards has developed as an organisation in which professional, consumer and government representatives come together in a single body to deliberate on an Australia-wide basis concerning hospital accreditation. 
The unified national approach to hospital standards and accreditation which thus has been made possible, has been accompanied by the extension, this year, of ACHS Educational programs to all States, through Clinical and Professional Review Workshops. 
As at 30 September 1979 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In the following table, estimates are provided in respect of the end of each of the last six financial years. 
A number of projects are being funded from the National Health and Medical Research Council's program for bone marrow research. Generally speaking, the funds are made available not to institutions but to individuals carrying out research projects that have been approved by the Council and the appropriate bodies concerned. The only two exceptions happen to be the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute and the Howard Florey Institute in Melbourne. Presently there are five projects specifically funded for bone marrow research, totalling $88,000. There are a further 15 projects which are directed towards bone marrow blood disorders, which are related to the problem. About $293,000 has been allocated to them. I should also point out that additional sums are made available for a whole range of medical research programs from State governments, private institutions and private sources. However, I am not able to say just how much money is coming from private and other sources for this very important area of research. 
I would like to take the opportunity of paying a tribute to  Mrs Nolan,  the mother of Anthony Nolan, who has shown tremendous courage in staying with her attempts to save the life of her son. I think it has focussed the attention of the medical profession, the research community generally and governments around the world on the great need to step up research into this disorder that has taken the lives of a lot of young people throughout the world. 
-On 29 March 1979 I received a question on this subject from the honourable member for Petrie. I indicated that I would refer the matter to the National Health and Medical Research Council and that when it reported on the issue I would make the report available to the Parliament and the public. As a result of its deliberations, a sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council has prepared the following documents entitled: 'The Medical Aspects of the Effects of the Inhalation of Asbestos', 'Statement on Health Hazards Associated With the Use of Asbestos in the Construction Industry' and 'Code for the Safe Removal of Asbestos Based Thermal/Acoustic Insulating Materials'. These documents were adopted by the National Health and Medical Research Council at its 88th session on 25 and 26 October. I have placed copies of the documents in the Parliamentary Library for the information of honourable members. In due course the documents will be widely distributed through State and Territory health authorities, employer associations and trade unions. Naturally, the National Health and Medical Research Council will continue to keep the matter of asbestos under review and will issue further reports and guidelines from time to time as the need arises. Any legislative action resulting from the Council's recommendations is, of course, a matter for the State or territorial governments. 
I received the transcript of the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Nationwide.  The Leader of the Opposition did say that officers of the Department of" Health had said that the introduction of a Medibank-type health insurance system would cost of the order of $500m. I do not know whether he deliberately left out the word 'more' or whether he misunderstood what in fact the officers of the Department had said. I have checked the transcript. The words '$500m more' should have been used. Indeed, further investigations have revealed that if a Medibank-type scheme were introduced, with an 85 per cent benefit and a $5 gap, the actual increased cost to Commonwealth revenue and therefore to taxpayers would be of the order of $600m. So in order to introduce a scheme with an 85 per cent benefit and a $5 gap there is no doubt that an additional $600m would have to be found from somewhere. Undoubtedly that sum would be found from the pockets of the Australian taxpayers. Instead of costing $500m, it would cost in fact about $ 1,200m for medical benefits alone. That is a far cry from the $500m figure that the Leader of the Opposition used on the ABC program  Nationwide.  I would like to clarify the position of the officers of my Department. At no time did they say that a Medibanktype scheme would cost $500m. Indeed, the truth of the matter is that such a scheme would cost $ 1 ,200m for medical benefits alone. 

 - Mr Speaker, you have no idea how glad I am that the Leader of the Opposition has asked this question. I think that the Australian people have a right to know why health costs have risen to the level that they have. Health expenditure in this country rose from about $2,500m in 1972-73 to $5,600m in 1975-76. That happens to be a rise of 125 per cent in a three-year period. In the first four years of the Fraser Government's term of office there has been a rise of 40 per cent, against an increase of 125 per cent during the Labor Government's term of office. Under the Labor Government the cost of health to Commonwealth outlays rose from $780m to about $2,900m-a 277 per cent increase in three years. Doctors' fees for medical benefit purposes almost doubled in just over three years under the Labor Government. After four years under the Fraser Government the fees have increased by 3 1 per cent. During the Labor regime- that is what it was; it was a regime, I am sure- health expenditure as a percentage of the gross domestic product rose from 5.9 per cent to 7.85 per cent. In the four years that we have been in government we have stabilised that figure at around 7.89 per cent. During the Labor Government's term of office the number of medical services increased, increasing by 13.1 per cent between 1973-74 and 1974-75 and by a further 28.5 per cent between 1974-75 and 1975-76. Since the Fraser Government has been in power the number of services has stabilised. It decreased by 4.8 per cent from 1975-76 to 1976-77. Between 1976-77 and 1977-78 it increased by 5.2 per cent. 
The great explosion that has occurred in the health area goes right back to those Labor Government days. The Australian people are paying a very high price in their health insurance premiums for the luxury of a Labor government. We are waiting with bated breath for this new policy that the Labor Party will announcebefore Christmas- the return of Medibank, staged or phased, call it what you will. It will be a cooked goose, honourable members can be sure. If it does not cook the Australian economy it will cook the hide of practically every person in this country. The only people who prospered under that regime were the providers of health care and the doctors. There is not the slightest doubt about that. The Australian people have suffered greatly. When the Fraser Government came to office, health costs in this country were exploding by almost 36 per cent a year. It has taken a lot of very unpopular decisions on the part of this Government to wind that back to about 10 per cent. We make no apologies for attempting to stabilise the costs in the health area in order to bring budgetary sensibility back to this country. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The additional cost of increasing social security pensions and benefits in May 1980 by the increase in the Consumer Price Index from June quarter 1979 to December quarter 1979 is estimated to be of the order of $51m in 1979-80. 
The full year cost of raising the current single rate of pensions and benefits to 30 per cent of seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings for June quarter 1979 is estimated tobe: 
age pensions $ 1,030m; 
invalid pensions $2 10m; 
c) widows pensions $ 1 40m; 
supporting parents benefits $50m; 
unemployment benefits $380m. 
In estimating these costs it was assumed that the married rate would maintain the existing relationship to the single rate. 
The above estimates relate to all existing pensioners and beneficiaries. If pensions and benefits not currently subject to indexation were not increased (i.e. some age pensioners aged 70 years and over, single unemployment beneficiaries aged 18 years and over without dependants and single beneficiaries aged less than 18 years) then the estimates for (a) and (e) would be $870 and $ 100m respectively. 
The cost of reducing the eligibility for the income test free component of the pension from 70 years and over to 69 years and over is estimated to be some $45m in a full year based on November 1979 rates. Part of this additional expenditure would be incurred by the Department of Veterans 'Affairs. 
The costs shown in parts (1) to (3) are gross costs, that is they make no allowance for any additional revenue which may be gained from taxation of the payments concerned. 
The Commissioner of Taxation has advised that the saving to income tax revenue that would result if family allowances were included in the assessable income of the recipient (generally the mother) and if they were to qualify as separate net income, for the purpose of determining the amount of the spouse rebate, is estimated at an amount of the order of $220m in a full year. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Social Security does not employ any staff on the apprehension of persons illegally receiving unemployment benefits. There are a number of staff in the Department, in various occupational categories, whose duties are in some way connected with the identification and investigation of persons who may be receiving social security payments illegally. These staff are invariably also employed on a number of other duties. 
Field Officers comprise the category of staff whose duties are most related to the identification and investigation of illegal recipients of unemployment benefits. However, these Field Officers are also employed on other duties associated with determining the eligibility of persons generally for unemployment benefits and the other forms of pensions and benefits administered by the Department. In addition, Field Officers perform a welfare role in advising departmental clients on payments and services to which they are entitled and concerning which they may be unaware. Details of the number of Field Officers employed in the Department are listed below together with an indication since 1972 of the percentage ratio of Field Officers to unemployment benefit recipients which gives an added perspective to the Department's activities in this area: 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government has made no decision to change the rates and conditions for unemployment benefits as they apply to persons under 18 years of age. The conditions of eligibility are contained in the Social Services Act and therefore any decision to amend these rates and conditions requires the approval of the Parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of the report referred to by the honourable member, which in fact appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald on 8  June 1979. 
1 understand that housing grants have been suspended by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
The Health Commission of New South Wales has conducted an enquiry into the health of the Aboriginal community at Baryulgil and the release of the report of the enquiry is imminent. I do not propose to forecast the findings of this report. However, I am informed that my colleague, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, is to examine the report when it is available with a view to determining what appropriate action will be taken in respect of housing for Aboriginals living in the area. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) The information sought is basically the same as that provided in response to question 4111, except that a further dissection by one-year age intervals is sought. Information in this degree of detail is not readily available. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The rate of supporting parents benefit does not represent the full value of income support available to a supporting parent through the social security system. Family allowances are also available and supplementary assistance may be payable. The following table shows the maximum rates of social security payments available to a supporting parent beneficiary: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is necessary to distinguish between the number of persons receiving domiciliary nursing care benefit (the beneficiaries) and the number of patients in respect of whom the benefit is paid as some beneficiaries are approved for the care of two patients (two patients being the maximum permitted for any one beneficiary). 
The following tables specify the number of persons receiving the domiciliary nursing care benefit (beneficiaries) and the number of patients approved in each State and Territory as at 3 October 1979: 
The figures are not available on the basis of postcodes from current computer programs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The total cost to the Government of Commonwealth medical benefits (CMB) paid in the period 1 November 1978 to 30 April 1979 was: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preliminary discussions on the constitution of the expert advisory committee to advise on priorities for the use of the Cocos Island quarantine station have been undertaken within my Department and at the most recent meeting of the Standing Committee on Agriculture in Perth on which my Department is represented. 
I am awaiting nominations from the Standing Committee and have industry representation under consideration. 
I would hope to be in a position to make an announcement on the committee's constitution shortly. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) Two positions have been allocated in my Department specifically for activities devoted to some aspect of the marketing, use, supervision, control and assessment of Australia's uranium ore and/or the products, services and activities derived from its existence. It is estimated that the costs associated with these positions would represent approximately 0.03 per cent of the cost of administration of the Depanment. 
In addition, a number of officers of my Depanment undertake from time to time as pan of their normal duties tasks related to uranium matters. It is not practicable to provide a satisfactory estimate of the cost of their activities. 
The Depanment currently has a proposal with the Public Service Board for a number of positions specifically for activities associated with uranium mining and milling. It is estimated that if the proposed staff are approved, the salaries, travelling, equipment and other administrative costs, including current staff and related expenses, would in a full year represent approximately 0.3 per cent of the cost of administration of the Department. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Workers in Australian uranium mines are not subject to whole body monitoring. Under the provisions of the Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores developed by my Department, it is required that uranium mine workers shall be monitored to ensure that the radiation protection standards for both external and internal sources of radiation are not exceeded. External radiation exposure is monitored by providing each worker with a thermoluminescent type badge which is worn during working hours. Internal radiation exposure is assessed by monitoring the concentrations of airborne respirable dust, radon and radon daughters in areas within the mine and recording the time spent by workers in these areas. This method of assessing internal radiation exposure is more sensitive and more satisfactory than the use of a whole body monitor. 
Records of total accumulated exposures of mine workers to external radiation, radon and radon daughters and airborne respirable dust are made available by the mining companies to the appropriate supervisory authorities in each State or Territory. For those mines at present functioning or under development within Australia, present cumulative exposures are well below the maximum limits permitted under the Code. 
I have received a statement from the National Health and Medical Research Council regarding the report to which the honourable member for Cowper has referred. It indicates that the total intake of lead, whether derived from water, air, food or other ingested substances, remains of concern. It also indicates that further efforts to effect overall reductions are required. The Council recommends that 30 micrograms of lead per 100 millilitres of blood in the Australian population be taken to represent a level of concern. A geometric mean level of 15 micrograms of lead per 100 millilitres of blood would ensure that the majority of the population at risk would not exceed this level. The Council accepts that 20 per cent of the total body lead burden could be contributed by lead in air, particularly in areas subject to heavy pollution. Consequently, of the geometric mean level of 15 micrograms of lead per 100 millilitres of blood, up to three micrograms of lead per 100 millilitres of blood could be attributed to lead derived from the air. 
I concede that this sounds rather complicated but this is how the report has come to me. To ensure that the uptake of" lead from air is not excessive, the Council recommends that the maximum permissible level of lead in air in the urban environment should be 1.5 micrograms of lead per cubic metre of air, averaged over three calendar month periods. I intend to place a copy of the report in the Parliamentary Library. The NHMRC has indicated goals, not standards, and the goals will be subject to further review in the light of other material that could come to hand. The Government will be studying the implications of this report presently in regard to its energy policy. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961, I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission 1978-79. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has confused me to some extent as to where he stands in regard to health insurance. On the one hand he claims that he believes in compulsion but on the other hand he is day by day, and no doubt for political purposes, advising people to opt out of the health insurance system. I am afraid that I view this debate and the others that we have had on the health insurance system largely as political opportunism. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and indeed the shadow Minister for Health, Or Klugman, have consistently tried to advise the Australian people not to insure themselves privately, particularly the young and single people. Obviously they are doing that because they want to see the system break down. They want to see people opt out and destroy the community rating system which they say is so important. I see a great conflict of attitudes and purposes. I daresay that one of the reasons the Opposition is doing this is that if it succeeds in drawing sufficient people out of the health insurance system considerable damage will be done to the community rating principle and to the health insurance system. It is a contrived plot by the Opposition to create a climate conducive to the announcement of its revised Medibank policy later this year which will, of course, be a compulsory system. 
For four years the Australian Labor Party has been very reluctant to announce its health insurance policy because of political considerations and the way in which a Medibank-type scheme will lock the Labor Party into an irresponsible economic policy at election time. It has taken nearly four years for Opposition supporters to pluck up enough courage to announce that if elected to government they would return a phased-in or staged-in Medibank-type health insurance system. The rate at which Medibank would be restored would depend on economic circumstances. This qualification concedes the fact that any government would have an economic nightmare is restoring Medibank and at the same time maintaining low taxation and a responsible budgetary and monetary policy. One wonders how a Labor government could reintroduce Medibank, dismantle the Fraser Government's fuel policy and not make savage increases in taxation. 
I have no argument whatsoever with the Opposition 's democratic responsibilities in advancing its own policy but I believe that I have a very real responsibility to warn the Australian people that if Labor proceeds to re-introduce a Medibank-type arrangement it will return this country to the great health cost explosion which occurred when Labor was last in Government. There is no doubt that the Medibank system was a great boon for the medical profession and the health providers. 
On the latest figures a return to a Medibank-type system of 85 per cent and a $5 gap it would cost not less than $ 1200m for medical benefits alone. Indeed, Medibank and the high costs associated with health in the Whitlam years are symbolic of Labor's failure in government. I want to return to the issue, and that is the question of community rating. I want to make it clear that the Government would view with concern any trend towards the destruction of the community rating principle in the health insurance system. It is essential to secure the widest possible community involvement in any insurance arrangement in order to obtain the lowest possible rating for premium purposes. At present, there is no evidence to suggest that the recent developments of some friendly societies have had or will have an impact on the community rating principle. However, there is a potential threat. My Department is monitoring the situation closely for any such evidence. I want to issue a warning that if any such effects become evident the Government will not refrain from taking immediate action to remedy the problem. 
The Government has a number of options it could take. For instance, the Government could move to make the Commonwealth subsidy for health benefits purposes available only to those people who insure for at least the basic benefits with health insurance funds registered under the National Health Act. I do not wish to pre-empt the decision that the Government may take if it is forced to move in order to protect the high risk or chronically ill people who seek to maintain their insurance cover with a registered health fund. The Government would view with deep concern any action by friendly societies, health insurance funds and commercials which resulted in their draining off the low risk, healthy people at cut price premiums, leaving the high risk contributors to pay high premiums to funds registered under the National Health Act. 
Whilst the Government provides quite extensive basic cover- paying all the medical schedule fees over $20 for each service and offering standard accommodation, without doctor of choice, in public hospitals- it would be quite unacceptable to allow some insurance companies and health funds to profiteer by creaming off the good risks with selective policies at cut price rates at the expense of the sick. The Government could not tolerate developments that would be detrimental to the sick and the chronically ill in the community. Therefore, it will monitor the situation very carefully indeed. In the meantime, those insurers and those contemplating insuring for medical and hospital benefits with funds or commercial insurance companies outside the National Health Act would be foolish not to await the outcome of the Government's consideration of this matter. In any event, people should recognise that those funds outside the National Health Act offer restricted benefits free of any supervision by the Commonwealth Department of Health. People should read the fine print and be fully aware of the limitation on the benefits payable under these cut price policies before they make their decision. 
I wish also to respond to some of the wildly irresponsible claims made by Opposition spokesmen in recent days in respect of this issue. Any alleged crisis in health care and health costs is being caused by the cry wolf stance being taken by the Opposition. It is trying to create a smokescreen to camouflage the bankrupt position it created in Australia between 1973 and 1975 when it created the financial Medibank monster. Australia is continuing to suffer from those mistakes. Access to health care has been considerably facilitated during the time of the Fraser Government and, at the same time, the taxpayer has been saved from the horrendous burden that Labor was inflicting on the Australian taxpayer. The cost of health insurance is now cheaper than it was before 1 November 1978. Public hospital charges have risen by only 25 per cent in three years. Schedule medical fees have increased by only 3 1 per cent in four years and the Australian Medical Association agreed with the Government to hold those schedule fees for a considerable period. 
Perhaps the Opposition would not like to be embarrassed again by my repeating the massive increases in medical fees that the Labor Party agreed to during its period of government. In fact, they increased by 93.5 per cent in a three year period. People with extended sickness, the chronically ill, have far more protection than they have had in the past. These people have access in the public hospitals to free medical services, care, treatment and accommodation. In health insurance particular attention has been paid to guaranteeing insurance benefits for those with extended illnesses. 
The Government has introduced and is applying a formula in nursing homes so that the chronically ill are covered for charges made in 70 per cent of beds in each State. While Labor was in Government the particularly impoverished aged sick in nursing homes were left in a scandalous position. The percentage of fees covered was minimal. Pensioner medical services have an assured future and the Fraser Government has introduced medical service programs for the disadvantaged whereby these people can obtain medical services in and out of hospitals without charge to themselves. People who wish to insure can do so; those without insurance have free and easy access to public hospital services. About 62 per cent of the population presently have health insurance. About 20 per cent of the population are in the pensioner, Defence Services, disadvantaged and veterans' groups. This leaves about 18 per cent of people who have relied on the Government's provision of access to standard ward accommodation and the payment of fees above $20. They are still able to obtain public services or pay for services out of their own pockets. That is their choice in this democratic society. The worst features of Medibank have been corrected. 
Does the Labor Party wish to go back to the situation that it created originally that caused much difficulty in budgetary terms and also to the whole economy? The changes made to the system have been designed in a most responsible manner and with the extent of responsibility which this Government has shown to the taxpayers of this nation in its attempt to try to get the economy back on a sound foundation. Let us not be hoodwinked by the Opposition on the matter of doctors' fees. We all know the uncontrolled explosion that occurred in this area from 1973 to 1975. Not only that but also the Labor Party condoned and accepted as a fact of life the AMA's separate list of fees. Did the Labor Party do anything about that when it was in government? Of course it did not do one thing. It realised only too well that the Commonwealth does not have the power to control fees. 
The honourable gentleman was not even a member of the Parliament then. I do not know where he was. I do not know what pulpit he was speaking from. Members of the Labor Party need not put on their histrionic acts now after the mess they made of things at that time. A Labor government would seek to impose the whole cost of health cover upon the taxpayers of the country. This was demonstrated by the fact that under Labor the cost of health to Commonwealth outlays rose from $780m to about $2,900m- a 277 per cent increase in three years. What an incredible budgetary record. The policy of the Liberal-National Country Party Government is that the user should make at least some direct contribution unless he is a holder of a pensioner health benefit card or is disadvantaged. This philosophy has been incorporated in all alterations to the health insurance system and has led to the development of a diversified health insurance industry in Australia. 
However, I repeat that if some sections of the health insurance industry proceed to take advantage of the hospital and basic cover provided by the Government and attract the low risk contributors, they will do so at their own risk. In the meantime, I hope that the Australian people will condemn the Leader of the Opposition and the shadow Minister for Health for their attempts to create a politically expedient climate for the return of an extravagant Medibank scheme that they have now devised. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) During the period 1 January to 1 September 1979 the following patient transfers took place in Queensland: 
transferred to other nursing homes- 123. 
transferred to other types of accommodation (excluding hospitalisation)- 66. 
Eighty-six transfers under 1 (a) above were to nursing homes charging lower fees than at previous homes. Of the remaining transfers 36 were to nursing homes with higher fees and one was to a nursing home with equal fees. 
As at 30 June 1979, there were 4,625 non-Government nursing home beds in Queensland. 123 transfers during the eight months period 1 January to 1 September 1979 would represent only a fraction of the potential turnover during this period. Apart from the purely financial aspects, there would be other reasons for transfers between nursing homes, such as re-location of patients' families, preferences of the patients involved, et cetera. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Department of Social Security annual report 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'Health Promotion in Australia 1978-79'. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports of the Committee on Nursing Personnel Survey entitled 'Nursing Personnel- A National Survey', volumes 1 and 2. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following public buildings are known to contain some asbestos; 
Parliament House, Canberra (extensions); 
-The National Health and Medical Research Council has recommended that the maximum permissible level of lead in air, averaged over a three-month period, should be 1.5 micrograms per cubic metre, as the honourable gentleman has suggested. So far as lead in blood is concerned, the Council is of the opinion that 30 micrograms of lead per 100 millilitres of blood is a level of concern. The Council has also recommended a geometric mean of 15 micrograms per 100 millilitres as being the level which would ensure protection for the majority of the population. However, I think the National Health and Medical Research Council basically recognised that there were a number of ways in which the minimum levels of lead could be contained. The Government is examining the impact of the recommendations made by the National Health and Medical Research Council upon its policy generally. In due course the Government will be giving consideration to the various responses from the departments concerned. 
-The States, including New South Wales, have received sufficient resources to enable them to maintain services at existing levels during the course of the national inquiry into the hospital system of Australia. It seemed to be a reasonable proposition that in the course of that national inquiry there should be no overall growth in the hospital system or lessening in the services provided by the hospital system. The States generally agreed with that proposition. Indeed, I understand that some States have in fact been able to reduce the actual level of expenditure since the Budget was established. New South Wales will be receiving no less than $54,215,000 more than it received last year, or 14 per cent more than it spent from Commonwealth resources last year. New South Wales has received the highest percentage increase of any State from the Commonwealth Government. 
The New South Wales Government, of course, is given the flexibility, as are all State governments, to allocate those resources within the system. Whilst there may be a diminishing degree of activity in certain hospitals in areas that may be over-bedded, the New South Wales Government has the flexibility to open additional units in other parts of metropolitan Sydney or elsewhere. The Westmead Hospital, of course, is coming on stream to provide the people of the western suburbs area of Sydney with additional beds and facilities. Some of the inner metropolitan area hospitals are having some of their resources reduced. But the Minister for Health in New South Wales has the flexibility, the authority and the prerogative to allocate those resources to meet his day-to-day administrative requirements. So, if he chooses not to open a particular unit at Bowral or anywhere else, that is his prerogative and his decision, and I suggest that he should take the blame for it. 
I ask the honourable gentleman to place the question on the Notice Paper. 
-For the information of honourable members, I present a report entitled 'Rehabilitation in Heath Services 1979'. 
There are very fundamental differences between the conditions that apply to the benefits payable from health organisations registered under the National Health Act and those payable from organisations operating outside the terms of the Act. For instance, under the basic medical and hospital tables of funds registered under the National Health Act there are no limitations for benefits, except for the two months waiting period. There are no limitations or restrictions in relation to the basic medical and hospital benefit tables. In regard to the Victorian friendly societies grouped together under the name the United Health Fund of Victoria, several packages being offered outside the control of the National Health Act are oriented towards low risk members of the community- young people and those who do not have a history of illness. 
I advise people to read the fine print very closely before being attracted to those funds. They appear to offer relatively cheap insurance cover. However, under these arrangements, benefits are limited or excluded in a number of ways. One of those, of course, is the pre-existing ailment rule, which does not apply to the basic tables of the registered health insurance funds. Organisations that are outside the Act can fail to pay benefits where a person has a history of a certain specified illness. In relation to confinements and obstetrics benefits, unless additional contributions have been paid for a period of 12 months no benefits are payable. So people could join the fund thinking that they would be eligible to receive benefits but would find that they were not eligible because of that condition. Benefits are not payable for general practitioner surgery consultations unless additional contributions have been paid. The same situation applies to psychiatric services in excess of $200 a person each membership year and for hospitalisation in excess of 35 days a person each membership year. In other words, benefits will not be payable after 35 days. No benefits are payable for treatment in approved nursing homes or in respect of professional services or outpatient fees raised by recognised or public hospitals. 
So, a number of limitations apply, and people need to know what those limitations are before they are attracted by the cut price arrangements being offered around the country. Such policies are designed to cream off the good risks and to profiteer at the expense of the chronically ill. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Minister for National Development to Question No. 4328  (Hansard,  6 November 1 979, pages 2657-8). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) On 25 October 1979, 1 announced increases in basic nursing home benefit rates in all States to take effect from 8 November 1979. The increase in Queensland is $14.35 a week, bringing the basic benefit up to $96.95 a week. 
and (4) Regular surveys of fees are conducted by my Depanment throughout the year to monitor nursing home fees and benefit levels. 
When introducing higher benefit levels in October 1977, the Commonwealth Government undertook to review benefit levels annually. The Government is carrying out its undertaking to consider and make yearly adjustments. Under the policy of annual benefit reviews the Commonwealth and health insurers will pay some $300m in 1979-80 by way of benefits to patients in nursing homes. 
See(l)and(2). 
7 ) The levels of benefit to be paid by the Commonwealth and health insurers are prescribed by regulations which cannot be made retrospective by virtue of provisions of the Acts Interpretation Act 1 90 1 relating to retrospectivity. 
Fishing Agreement with Japan  (Question No. 4924) 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The numbers of (a) dependent children and (b) students eligible for pensioner health benefits are not available separately. However, the total number of such children and students is estimated to be 338,200 as at December 1979. This figure includes an estimated 106,000 dependent children and students who will become eligible due to the changes to fringe benefit eligibility coming into force on 1 November 1979. These numbers relate only to dependants of social security pensioners and supporting parent beneficiaries. 
The honourable member is referring to a decision that the Government took earlier this year, and which was incorporated in legislation here, to allow for the reclassification of nursing home type patients in recognised hospitals throughout Australia so that they would make a contribution towards their board and lodging as they would do in a nursing home situation. At the time of the last Health Ministers conference, all State Ministers indicated their general support for the concept. Discussions have been taking place between officers of my Department and various officials of the State governments and State government departments or commissions. With regard to New South Wales, there is agreement at the ministerial level and I anticipate that a legal document will be completed and signed to enable the New South Wales Government to proceed to reclassify nursing home type patients in public hospitals as from 1 February next year. 
No, I am not aware at all of the findings of that hearing and the alleged refusal of two doctors and five nurses to give evidence because they might incriminate themselves. This is, of course, primarily a State government matter, but for the benefit of the honourable gentleman I will seek a report on the issue and check on the suggestion in his question that the hearing was prejudiced because of a refusal by people to give evidence at the hearing. I will furnish him with the findings of my own inquiry in due course. 
-Pursuant to section 122 of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 I present the annual report of the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation 1978- 79. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the Health Insurance Commission Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Health Insurance Commission 
1977- 78. 
-For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of the Capital Territory Health Commission 1 978-79. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development's answer to Question No. 4328 which appeared in  Hansard on  6 November 1979. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2 ) The value of child endowment and tax rebates for children to a person with a dependent spouse and 3 children and receiving the minimum wage at June 1976 was effectively about $37.50 a month- about 60 per cent of their maximum value. The new family allowances, however, are worth $62.90 a month to every such family- an increase of $25.40 or 68 per cent in money terms. In real terms, this is equivalent to an increase of 26 per cent. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I ) (a) The Department of Social Security made capital grants for the construction of aged or disabled persons homes in New South Wales and Australia in each year since 1972-73 as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are differing legal opinions but advice to the Capital Territory Health Commission is that the Trust is valid. 
This matter is under current discussion with the Taxation Office. 
No. 
Balance of funds at 30 June 1979- $273,638.55. 
No, however it should be noted that contributors do not withdraw money from the Fund but propose expenditure from the Fund which is administered by a committee. 
For years up to 30 June 1978-Yes. 1978-79 statements to be submitted for audit shortly. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937, I present the annual report on Medical Research Projects 1978. 
For the March quarter this year about 70 per cent of all the medical services in Australia were charged for at the medical benefits schedule fee or less. In New South Wales, for instance, the figure was of the order of 74 per cent. In New South Wales sixty-six per cent of the most common service- that is, the standard surgery consultation- was charged at the schedule fee or lower and 1 7 per cent was charged at the Australian Medical Association fee or higher. The sum of the fees shown on doctors' accounts in Australia was in fact approximately 2 per cent lower than the sum of the schedule fees for the services rendered. In New South Wales, for instance, it was 2.3 per cent lower. This occurs because of the large numbers of services that doctors render at a discounted figure-85 per cent of the schedule fee for pensioners- and also the smaller numbers of services that they render at 75 per cent of the schedule fee for disadvantaged persons. How extensively doctors discount their fees for pensioners and disadvantaged patients is not generally recognised. 
Whilst the medical profession comes in for its share of criticism- and some of it, of course, is well earned- I must say that it has been most cooperative as an organised profession in the fees that it has been charging pensioners and disadvantaged people. It has been quite religiously attempting to assist the disadvantaged people and certainly pensioners with pensioner health benefit cards. It does appear that as a general rule the medical profession does have regard to the financial circumstances of its patients. I have no doubt that these factors will be taken into account in the inquiry that is taking place in New South Wales at present under the auspices of the Prices Commission. I believe that it will be critical to the long term stability of the arrangements that have been in existence for many years in respect of pensioners, particularly those with pensioner health benefit cards, and to the arrangements for direct billing to the Department of Health for services rendered to the disadvantaged people to maintain the present system. I hope that in the course of that inquiry proper recognition is given to the fact that there is a very substantial discounting of fees for those in need. 
I must respond with circumspection because I have not a report on the issues that are involved in the question asked by the honourable member. I must say, however, as I said when answering a similar question the other day, that the Commonwealth Government has only an indirect responsibility for the conduct of hospitals in the States. The State governments, of course, have the day-to-day responsibility for the administration of those hospitals, the Commonwealth having an indirect responsibility through the hospital cost-sharing arrangements. 
I must answer no to all parts of the question that the honourable member has asked because I have not yet received a report. I gave an undertaking to the honourable gentleman that I would furnish him with a copy of the report once it was compiled. I have not yet received a report from my Department on the issues that the honourable gentleman raised. So I am not in a position really to judge whether the matter is sub judice or otherwise, but I must treat the question with circumspection. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As indicated in my reply to Question No. 4528  (Hansard,  1 1 September 1979, page 982), the discussions in Malta, at officer level, were of a preliminary nature only and concerned general principles in relation to a basis on which Australia might commence negotiations for entering into a reciprocal agreement on social security. There was no written report or recommendations to the Government following these discussions. 
As formal negotiations for a reciprocal agreement between Australia and Malta have not taken place, there are no outstanding matters of contention between the two countries. 
The general question of Australia's participation in reciprocal agreements on social security with a number of countries is under examination. 
Representatives of Malta have kept in touch concerning the Government's attitude towards entering into negotiations with Malta for an agreement. 
Air Charter Services from United States to Australia  (Question No. 4673)  Mr Morris  asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
Does his Department readily grant approval for United States of America air passenger charter operators to fly back to back charters from the US to Australia. 
Is a requirement for the charter operators to set artificially high fare levels. 
What are the comparative air fares charged by US charter operators for travel between Australia and the US with current Apex fares. 
Is he able to state whether charter operators and 4 organisations are unwilling to risk expending large sums on advertising if they are not guaranteed in advance approval to fly charters to Australia. 
5 ) What are the prospects of US air charter operators receiving an assurance from the Government that all applications for Australian approval of passenger charter operators will be granted in the reasonable future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics available from the direct billing payment system operated by my Department and quarterly returns from registered organisations for dic period 1 November 1978 to 31 March 1979 show: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Radiation Laboratory (ARL) measures radon daughter concentrations in units of working level. 
For an open pit, the circumstances when radon daughters occur at significant levels are those occasions when there is poor natural ventilation. This happens in practice during times of strong temperature inversion when there is no vertical air movement, and the air becomes very still. Radon gas, emerging from the ore surface then remains in the immediate area for long enough to decay into radon daughters. Significant radon daughter levels are therefore only likely to occur during the night and in particular at times close to sunset and sunrise. 
The ARL maintained a continuous measurement program throughout the active mining phase at Nabarlek, during which radon daughter levels in the pit were regularly recorded. During the daylight hours they were observed to be quite negligible, and even at night time turned out to be lower than expected. Prior to August 1979 there were very few occurrences of temperature inversions, and no significant levels were observed until then. For the month of August, which happened to be the time when the highest grade of ore was removed from the pit, the maximum recorded level was 0.27 working level observed over a 10 minute interval just before sunrise. Such sharp and shortlived peaks in radon daughter concentration were not uncommon during this period. The mean level for night times during August and September was 0.02S + 0.004 WL, and essentially zero for the day shifts. In general, ARL estimates agree reasonably with the independent measurements made by the mining company. 
It is not possible for ARL to provide estimates of the highest total exposures as it does not have records for the individual hours worked by employees. The company has however reported its estimates to the Northern Territory Department of Mines and Energy which is the supervising authority. ARL can however estimate the mean total radon daughter exposure, based on its measurements of radon daughter levels and the number and length of day and night shifts worked per month, once inversion conditions began to occur. 
Estimated mean exposure from 1 August 1979 to the close of mining on 1 1 October 1979 is 0.06 working level months (WLM) which compares well with the company's estimate of 0.05 WLM. This should be compared with the maximum exposure permitted under the Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores ( 1 975 ) of 4 WLM in a full year. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have approved a Community Health Program grant to the Institute in respect of its Murrin Bridge project. This grant is in respect of salaries and associated costs for two community health development staff to provide the Murrin Bridge Aboriginal community with community health development services covering matters such as hygiene, sanitation and nutrition, and including personal and community health promotion. 
My approval is subject to a special condition that the project organisers and staff shall closely co-operate with New South Wales health and welfare authorities and officers in relation to the operation of this project. The Institute has also been advised that, if the project is approved for continued funding next financial year, it should be expected that this will be subject to an additional special condition to the effect that the project shall be subject to joint Commonwealth/ State appraisal; it is implicit in this that the community will be consulted. 
No appointments have yet been made to the two positions approved for Community Health Program funding. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Medibank Private is a registered hospital and medical benefits organisation and operates in competition with other private funds. While the Health Insurance Commission is a statutory authority, the Government does not issue instructions as to how Medibank Private business is conducted other than through instructions which apply equally to all other registered funds. 
It will be appreciated that publishing information of the nature sought, relating as it does to Medibank Private procedures and practices, might be to the commercial disadvantage of the fund. Therefore I have asked the General Manager of the Health Insurance Commission to provide the information direct to the honourable member on a confidential basis. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The North West one stop Welfare Centre at Coburg, Victoria, is continuing as a co-ordinated welfare delivery outlet. 
The recent review of the operation of the Centre indicated that the Centre as it had been organised was effective in co-ordinating the welfare delivery efforts of various government and non-government organisations. The review recommended continuation of the Centre. 
and (4) The question of establishment of further one stop welfare centres will be considered in the light of particular circumstances as they arise. This applies also to the question of whether there should be such a centre in the city of Northcote. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) From 2 October 1974 to 20 December 1977, when the then Migrant Services Branch was located within my Department, the following programs were exclusively directed towards migrants: 
Welfare Services 
Telephone Interpreter Service 
Good Neighbour Councils 
Grants to organisations involved in integration activities/migrant welfare activities 
Repatriation of immigrants to their former countries 
Research and surveys in immigrant settlement experience 
National Group Directory . 
Migrant Social Welfare Advisory Council 
Co-ordination of Refugee Settlement 
Guardianship of immigrant Children. 
All Social Security programs, including payments under the Immigration (Guardianship of Children) Act and special benefits for people under maintenance guarantees and for refugees, cover migrants insofar as migrants are members of the Australian community. Special attention has been given to programs and policies affecting migrants in line with recommendations of the Galbally Report. 
Since 1974 information material on social security programs and services has been printed in ethnic languages. Currently pamphlets in 18 ethnic languages are available and it is proposed to include additional ethnic languages this financial year. 
Since December 1978 a separate migrant services section has been concerned with policies and programs of the Department to ensure they are attuned to the needs of migrants. 
Subsequently, in August 1979, migrant services units have been established in each State Office of my Department. 
Details on expenditure by the Department of Social Security from 1974 to 1977 for programs and policies specifically concerning migrants administered by the Migrant Services Branch were as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Stilboestrol was introduced onto the Australian market in the late 1940 's and early 1950 's before the introduction of controls over the safety and efficacy of imported therapeutic substances. 
Adverse effects have been confirmed to some only of the offspring of women who were administered the drug during pregnancy. 
The question as to who should take responsibility for the predicament of the children suffering from the effects of Stilboestrol is a vexed one. As indicated in ( 1 ) above the Commonwealth Government had no controls over the safety and efficacy of this imported substance at the critical time and consequently could not be held responsible. This is a matter which could only be determined after all the facts associated with the prescribing of the drug were known. 
In 1976 a sub-committee of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee sought the assistance of the Royal Australian College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and the Royal Australian College of Pathologists in gathering reports of vaginal adenocarcinoma associated with diethylstilboestrol. To date, only three reports have been received together with one of vaginal adenosis. The Committee recognises that all cases may not have been reported. 
Yes to a limited extent between 1957 and 1959. However it is understood that legislation was introduced in all States in the early 1960's prohibiting the use of Stilboestrol for this purpose. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) In very broad terms, an Italian age pension is payable to a person in respect  of whom  appropriate contributions have been made for a period of not less than IS years and who, in the case of a man, has reached 60 years of age or, in the case of a woman, has reached 55 years of age. The age qualification may vary for persons in certain occupations and is generally waived for a person in respect of whom 35 years of contributions have been made. As there is no nationality or residence test, an Australian citizen resident in Australia who meets these criteria would be eligible to receive such a pension. 
) A person is qualified to receive an Australian age pension if that person has, at any time, resided in Australia for a continuous period of not less than 10 yean, is residing in, and is physically present in, Australia on the date on which the claim for an age pension is made and, in the case of a man, has reached 65 years of age or, in the case of a woman, has reached 60 years of age. The 10 years' continuous residence requirement is reduced if a claimant has resided in Australia for periods aggregating more than 10 years, at least one of which is or not less than 5 years' duration. Once an Australian age pension has been granted it continues to be payable irrespective of the pensioner's country of residence. 
In addition, an Australian age pension may be granted to a claimant who is living outside Australia if: he lived for 30 years in Australia; he has not resided in Australia at any time since 7 May 1973; in the case of a man, he was 60 years of age before he left Australia (the relevant age for a woman is 55 years); and he is in special need of financial assistance. 
An Italian citizen resident in Italy who meets the above criteria would be eligible to receive an Australian age pension. 
Australian pensions are financed out of general revenue and are not dependent on specific contributions by a person to a nominated fund. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Invalid pensions are payable to persons aged 16 or more who are not receiving an age pension and who are permanently incapacitated for work to the extent of not less than 85 per cent or who are permanently blind. The maximum basic rate of invalid pension is the same for all qualified persons regardless of the nature of incapacity and whether care is provided at home or in an institution. Additional payments are made for dependent children and supplementary (rent) assistance may be paid to those paying rent or for board and lodging. 
The maximum rate of supplementary assistance is $5 a week. This is reduced by the amount of any income in excess of $ I a week. No assistance is paid when income reaches $6 a week or $ 12 for a married couple. Where there are children these limits are increased by $6 for each child. 
The $1 'free area' has existed since 1965. 
The income test on supplementary assistance for invalid pensioners is the same as that applicable to supplementary assistance for other pensioners, and is reviewed annually in the Budget context. 
The suggestion that new forms of assistance be provided for certain invalids has been noted. 
In addition to the invalid pension there are other forms of financial assistance available which are designed to meet the special needs of invalid pensioners being cared for in a private home. These include the discretionary special benefit which may be paid to a person who gives, and who is the only person available to give, constant care and attention to an invalid near relative, and the domiciliary nursing care benefit of $14 per week is available independently of other income or benefits to a person caring full-time at home for a chronically ill or disabled person over the age of 16 who is visited by a registered nurse at specified intervals. 
The Commonwealth also makes other forms of assistance available, such as through its health programs and the taxation system. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) My Department's IYC Unit was advised of the program proposed for the Festival, including the IYC segment and listed the event, along with many hundreds of events and projects in the July 1979 'Catalogue of National Events and Projects in Australia'. While the IYC Unit has undertaken the gathering of the information contained in the catalogue, it in no way reflects the attitude of the Department of Social Security to these projects, nor does the Department carry any responsibility for the nature or viability of projects listed. 
My Department has not contributed financially to the Festival. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
The Conference is being sponsored by the Council of Social Welfare Ministers. A Steering Committee has been established to organise the Conference and consists of representatives from both Commonwealth and State Governments, as well as members of the non-Government sector as participant-observers. 
It is intended that the conference be self-financing although arrangements are being made to cover the cost of 20 free places. 
The Council of Social Welfare Ministers has decided to limit the numbers of delegates who are to be invited to attend the conference and the Commonwealth/ State/Territory quota is as follows: 
a ) Commonwealth- 20 places 
State/Territory- 140 places 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) In order to qualify for unemployment benefits under the provisions of the Social Services Act a person must, among other things, be residing in Australia on the date he lodges his claim for benefit and have been continuously so resident for a period of not less than twelve months preceding that date or satisfy the Director-General that he is likely to remain permanently in Australia. 
Under the reciprocal agreement on social security between Australia and New Zealand, people from New Zealand are deemed to be permanently resident in Australia after they have been here for six months. 
Thus, New Zealanders who are temporarily in Australia are not entitled to unemployment benefits if they have been here for less than six months. 
If the New Zealanders satisfy the Director-General that they are likely to remain permanently in Australia or have been in Australia for six months, unemployment benefits may be paid subject to other conditions of eligibility. 
The number of people from New Zealand currently receiving unemployment benefits is not known. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (3) The Government has the rates of all pensions and benefits under continual review, particularly in the Budget context. 
There is no reliable information upon which to make an accurate estimate of the cost of increasing the permissible income limits for unemployment benefits- it is expected that the costs involved would be substantial. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It would be possible to implement a scheme whereby indexed family allowances would be payable to families where the families' incomes were equivalent to or less than average weekly earnings, but administration would be complex and costly. Before such a scheme could be implemented a large number of decisions would be required on matters such as: 
The definition of the family members to be included in the income unit for the purpose of income testing, e.g. would income of children be included? 
Over what period would family income be assessed and average earnings determined? Would it be, for example, the previous financial year, the previous quarter or an estimate for the current year? Would provision be made to vary payments for families whose financial and other circumstances change? 
Would the increases be paid on an all-or-nothing basis? If so, there would be inequities. If not, would the tapering take place before or after the income limit of average weekly earnings? What would be the rate of taper? 
How frequently would the maximum rates of family allowances be adjusted and how soon after the relevant movement in the Consumer Price Index? 
Would pensioner and beneficiary families be treated in the same way as other families or would special arrangements be made to avoid overlapping income tests? 
Answers would need to be given to these kinds of questions before any work could be done to make a reasonable estimate of the cost and numbers involved. The cost would also, of course, be dependent on the rate of inflation and movements in average weekly earnings. Even if these matters were resolved, cost estimates would not be reliable since comprehensive and up to date information on the income distribution of Australian families, in a form suitable for costing purposes, is not available. It may be possible to more accurately cost such proposals once the detailed results of the Australian Bureau of Statistics 1978-79 Income Survey become available. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information requested by the honourable member is not held in a form that would enable this question to be answered without very considerable effort. I am not prepared to direct that the staff resources which would be required be diverted from more essential duties. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The States Grants (Home Care) Act amendment of 1978 received Royal Assent on 22 September 1978. 
The particular nature of the program makes it difficult- and perhaps even irrelevant- to try to estimate savings' consequent upon the changed funding basis. Because the Commonwealth reimburses the States for approved expenditures under the program, any notional savings in 1978-79 and 1979-80 would be dependent upon State estimates of what their expenditure would have been on the former $2:$1 funding basis. Such estimates are not available. 
The honourable member will, no doubt, be interested in the following information concerning expenditures under the program: expenditure for 1 979-80 is estimated to be $ 10,372,000; an increase of $964,3 10 over expenditure in 1 978-79. 
Total State and Commonwealth expenditure has risen from $14,788,758 in 1977-78 to an estimated total of $20,744,000 in 1979-80, partly due to an expansion in expenditure on existing services, but additionally from the approval of 25 new home care services and 79 additional welfare officer positions. 
Means Test on Service Pension Increases (Question No. 4707) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The relevant information is not available on a quarterly basis for the registered medical funds. Under Section 76 (2 ) of the National Health Act, funds are required to submit financial accounts on an annual basis. Financial statements for medical funds for 1978-79 have not yet been submitted by all funds. 
Hospital fund contribution income data are collected by my Department on a quarterly basis as a by-product of the hospital benefits re-insurance arrangements. The hospital fund contribution income for the relevant quarters was as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 understand that apart from the New South Wales Government, the only State Government which provides assistance with hearing aids and batteries to persons ineligible for assistance from the Commonwealth is the Victorian Government The assistance provided by the Victorian Government is subject to a means test as is the case with New South Wales. 
In the present economic circumstances the Government has decided that it is unable to extend the terms of eligibility for hearing aid assistance to additional categories. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
While the information requested by the honourable member could be provided after a large amount of research it would not give a clear picture of relativities because of the significantly different government structures in the countries listed. To obtain the body of information which would be necessary to make valid comparisons between these countries would require a major research effort and I am not prepared to authorise the application of the necessary resources. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Senate Standing Committee's Report entitled 'Drug Problems in Australia- an Intoxicated Society?' referred to said that the tobacco industry has probably spent close to $ 100m on advertising in the last six years whereas total Commonwealth expenditure on anti-smoking campaigns over the same period has been $ 1 .5m '. 
As the report was printed in October 1977, the period to which I assume the honourable member is referring is the six year period prior to 1977. In three years of this period, 1972-73-1974-75, an amount of $ 1.5m was spent by the Commonwealth in the National Warning Against Smoking Campaign. 
It is not possible to provide details of total expenditure by the Government to discourage smoking as the Commonwealth supports, or has supported through other funding mechanisms, a wide variety of health education activities carried out in hospitals, health centres and other health agencies. These programs aim to promote healthy lifestyles and include anti-smoking as a major part of the overall programs. 
Apart from Commonwealth financial outlays, the honourable member will be aware that, as a significant antismoking measure, the Government prohibited, as from I September 1976, the advertising of cigarettes and cigarette tobacco on radio and television. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information requested by the honourable member is not held in a form that would enable this question to be answered without very considerable effort I am not prepared to direct that the staff resources which would be required be diverted from more essential duties. 
-The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information requested by the honourable member is not held in a form that would enable this question to be answered without very considerable effort I am not prepared to direct that the staff resources which would be required be diverted from more essential duties. 
