I present the  following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the State of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
That because of uncontrolled shooting for commercial purposes, the population of kangaroos, particularly the big red species is now so low, that they may become extinct. 
There are insufficient wardens in any State of the Commonwealth to detect or apprehend those who break the inadequate laws which exist. 
As a tourist attraction, the kangaroo is a permanent source of revenue to this country. 
It is an indisputable fact that no species can withstand hunting on such a scale, when there is no provision being made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: 
The export of kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government take the necessary steps to have all wildlife in Australia brought under its control. 
Only a complete cessation of killing for commercial purposes can save surviving kangaroos. And your petitioners, therefore, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Does the Minister agree with the doubts expressed by the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission about the practicability of keeping wage increases within the bounds of productivity in a full employment economy? 

 - Mr Speaker, I am greatly honoured to be called by you for this first time as the member for Chisholm. I am sorry that I did not know my predecessor,  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes, personally because everyone, whatever bis politics, held him in high admiration and affection. He is an inspiration to me to walk straight in politics according to my own lights, as he walked straight according to his. 
I welcome this public order legislation. This is not a piece of legislation made in a fit of pique or a rush of anger, out of any narrowness of mind or meanness of spirit. It does not seek to stifle or to silence the freedom to dissent, protest or demonstrate. It in fact safeguards dissent, protest and demonstration. It does this by drawing a clear line against violence. For political violence, whatever its precise motive, can lead only to a crack down on freedom. The 
Bill, with ils realistic penalties, creates order out of the confusion of archaic, irrelevant and sometimes even harsh common law and statutory provisions. In its use of terms like reasonable apprehension of violence', unreasonable obstruction' and 'reasonable excuse' the Bill properly and sensibly leaves the judgment of the circumstances in any particular case ultimately lo the courts and the juries, and not with the police. So 1 stress that the Bill does not in any way attempt to prevent protests or demonstrations on the ground that they might at some future lime become violent; it only prevents the actual or threatened violence if and when it develops. 
Much of the youth revolutionary talk of our times is the old Marxist hat, much tattered and worn at a new angle. Today's new factor is the emphasis on direct physical confrontation with the authorities and especially with the universities where urban geurilla warfare is used in the struggle to bring on the so-called revolution. People get involved in protests and demonstrations for many reasons, but it is undeniable that there is a very small group of people who use protests and demonstrations not to protest about conscription or Vietnam or education but to build up the revolutionary movement. They protest under the banners of freedom and justice, but they simply do not believe in the freedoms and justice which we cherish in our democracy. 
Universities have taken some time to realise that they were ultimately dealing with a very, very small group which regards its demands as non-negotiable and which seeks to destroy the universities themselves. They have increasingly realised that these people simply have to take the consequences of acting to destroy or prevent the successful functioning of institutions which are supported by the overwhelming majority. This Bill spells the same message. In the university context nothing has been more unsettling than uncertainty itself. When students have known the clear consequences of acting in certain ways they have had to think twice, and the great majority of students have been able to retain their confidence in the university. 1 remember a radical student at the University of Melbourne telling me that he had decided to have a heart to heart talk with the Vice-Chancellor so that they would both know where they stood. He said: 'I asked the Vice-Chancellor what he would do it  I  and, say, 6 of my mates went into his office and sat down*. He said the ViceChancellor replied: '1 would discipline you'. The student then said: -Well,  Sir, what  if 60 of us moved in and occupied your office?' The Vice-Chancellor replied: '1 would discipline the lot of you'. The student then said: 'Well, what if 600 of us took over your office?' He said the ViCe.Chancellor replied: If 600 took over the office 1 would discipline the lot of you'. The surprised radical student said: 'I think he meant it'. The very fact that the student knew where he stood with authority within the university, I think, has been a great saving grace through difficult times. As I say, this Bill spells the same message: Those who wish to overrun government offices, toss Molotov cocktails at the police and put the boot in at demonstrations know the consequences. They know that their actions are seriously regarded. 
Our nation has a proud history of freedom from political violence and a proud history of political freedom. But freedom and democracy are not just anywhere to be taken for the asking. Their finest expression relies on a much more fragile balance of forces than is often realised. It is as important for the future of our democracy to safeguard the rights of minorities to dissent as it is to safeguard the majority against the excesses of the dissenters. The virtue of the present Bill is that it understands the importance of finely balancing these majority and minority interests. If the few anti-democratic violent minorities get away with it, then the rights of all legitimate dissenting minorities are endangered. On campus after campus in the United States of America the few have made the many suffer a serious and lasting curtailment or even a cessation of their basic freedoms, lt is not even a question of the right to dissent in some places there. Two or three people have not been allowed to gather together for any purpose whatsoever outside the classroom, let alone dissent. 
There is nothing strange or worrying about the notion that democracy should defend itself. We have cared enough for it to go to war for it. In time of peace wishful thinking and dreaming will not keep institutions alive and well. They must be defended as any human institution must be defended when it is under attack. But they must not only be defended; they must also be reviewed. While our degree of civilisation demands that we reject violence, it also requires that we should review the workings of the institutions against which violence is threatened or perpetrated. For it would be surprising if the necessary democratic emphases of today turned out to be the same as those of yesterday. 
While modern communications might have shrunk the world into a global village, mass complex public and private organisations have necessarily tended to remove from men much of their own government. 
In terms of history it seems only the other day that people's work, family and government were all inextricably bound up, when a man in a real sense 'did his own thing'. He produced his own product or at least he saw some result of his own labours.  His  son followed him. He knew personally most of those who made governing decisions which mattered to him. It may be that a reason why today many people are so embarrassingly pleased when a member of parliament does something for them is because they see government as so distant from them. When I was in the Highlands of New Guinea the other day it struck me that the Highlanders treated politics not as a spectator sport but as something innate and important to them. They knew the issues, they knew the 'governors' and they actually participated. Government was near to them and involved them. Mass complex bureaucracies and mass communication designed to service vast and overwhelming suburban societies are, of course, essential, but the great successes and advances which we have in knowledge and material provision matter little if our people are not the better and happier for them. 
The curious thing is that the very feature of technological society which can alienate man from his government can, if given the right twist and emphasis, serve to unite men to one another and to their governments. For instance, the mass media, by playing up the big and the dramatic and the distant, can force politics to be more and more a distant and threatening spectacle, but by bringing the people and local councillors as well as local members of Parliament together on talk-back and current affairs programmes to talk about the things which matter most to people they can communicate creatively-. Government itself has to use general rules to cover cases, but the more the decisions can be made where the people are the better for government and the people. 
This week's Premier's Conference dramatised the advantages of co-operation between the Commonwealth and State governments. I would like to see the development of communications between these bodies and local government organisations, for the local council is not an island and the people who live within the boundary of local government must know that governments, including large ones, exist not for themselves but solely to serve the people. Local councillors know that their problems cannot be solved by them alone. Of course, the last thing a liberal would want is a federal takeover of their problems.  A  cohesive and co-operative approach by all interested parties is the answer, with the Federal Government's particular responsibility being to research into the changing national and area needs. 
In all of this, those of us in government must understand the ideas, purposes and ideals - or lack of them - of those who work in the great bureaucracies, of the dropout, of the local councillor, of the businessman and of the student. We must understand the joys and the strains of living in suburbia. We must understand that there are all sorts of ways of growing up and we must recognise this fact in our education policies. It seems that it must be repeated again and again that education and qualifications are made for man and not man for education and qualifications. Our governments have achieved a great deal in the field of education but there is a danger of education becoming a duty almost like the draft. Surely when men are being interviewed for jobs the first question should be whether they could do the job well and not whether they have received a certain paper qualification from somewhere or other. In everything we do in government today we need to balance the rational solution, which the knowledge of experts seems to dictate, against the dictates of the hearts and minds of individuals. It is never self evident that the plan of the expert is the most proper solution to a problem. 
The Bill which is before the House leaves people free to express themselves, individually or in groups, in all ways short of violence. It thus safeguards our democratic institutions and enables them to continue to evolve creatively to the ultimate benefit of individuals, for to the liberal a person's life is his most important possession and it is of the utmost significance how that life is lived. 
The excellent statement of the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  recognises that Papua New Guinea is moving rapidly towards self-government. The statement encourages this movement, giving it all the necessary support without seeking to determine Papua New Guinea's future for it. It is the height of folly and irresponsibility to encourage rapid development without giving the necessary physical, financial and psychological support to enable this to happen. This was unfortunately the folly and irresponsibility of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  who was seen by countless people in Papua New Guinea to be taking away with one hand without being prepared to give back anything with the other hand. He was seen to be cutting and running because difficulties were mounting. He was seen to be sacrificing the long term interests of the emerging nation and the long term national interests of Australia for short term and external political capital. 
The Leader of the Opposition went to Papua New Guinea with his heart and his mind closed to the people there. With as little understanding as he sometimes seems to have for his own Party and the people of Australia, he impressed on the people of Papua New Guinea, in his colonial style, his own array of ideas. However much he may have been subsequently advised to moderate his stand since his first disastrous trip, the fact remains that Labor policy, as be stated it, was that, should the Labor Party be elected in 1972, Papua New Guinea would be made self-governing, whatever the people of Papua New Guinea thought, whatever fear, division and hopelessness it caused there, and whatever harm it did to Australia's long term relationships with Papua New Guinea. I stress that this is not a question of whether self government is to apply in 1971, 1973, 1976, 1978 or any other year: It is a question of our sensitivity to their wants, a question of whether we determine their development or they determine their development as far as possible. 
The Opposition's policy of cut and run has been rejected by the Minister and the Government. However, of much greater importance is the fact that the Opposition's policy has been rejected by the people's representatives in the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly, and it cannot be said that the members of that House acted hastily, without long and deep consideration of the issues or without evidence of all shades and intensity of feeling in the country. Nor can it be said that the House of Assembly was talked or pressured by the Australian Administration into its findings, for the plain fact of the matter is that the House of Assembly, of its own initiative, set up the Select Committee on Constitutional Development, which travelled widely in Papua New Guinea, visiting other developing societies and hearing a great deal of evidence. The House of Assembly has accepted the great bulk of the Committee's recommendations. Now the Australian Government has considered and accepted the recommendations, indicating that it will take all necessary steps in pursuit of them. 
Therefore, what has been asked for and what we have agreed with is that the development of the Territory shall be geared to preparing the country for internal self-government during the life of the next House of Assembly, that is, from 1972 to 1976, so that should it become a reality earlier than expected, or if it is in fact requested by the people then, the move to internal self-government can be made at that time with the least possible amount of administrative disruption. This recommendation reflects the finding that the majority at this stage does not want selfgovernment before  1976  but that the view of the majority could well change before then. I repeat that this recommendation, which the Government has accepted and which is so different in spirit from the policy of the Leader of the Opposition, is entirely the result of the free initiatives and the hard considerations of the people's representatives of Papua New Guinea. 
The extent of the distress which Labor policy has created is measured by a motion which passed through the House of Assembly by  36  votes to  11  and which stated that, if Labor won the next election in Australia and attempted to impose selfgovernment on Papua New Guinea without the consent of a majority of the people, the next House of Assembly should petition the United Nations to direct the Australian Government to act in accordance with the freely expressed will and desire of the people of Papua New Guinea, as guaranteed by the United Nations declaration on the granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples, and by the policy of the present Australian Government. Here we have the extraordinary and sorry spectacle of the Parliament in Papua New Guinea having to think of seeking the protection of the United Nations against the dictatorial policy of the Australian Labor Party. The Minister's statement clearly recognises the tasks and difficulties confronting the Government and the Papua New Guinea Administration and Parliament. The Government's policy is as important for what it does not say as for what it does say. It does not attempt to predetermine either the broad framework or the details of the system of government which is ultimately to be reached by the people themselves. It would be foolish and futile for us to attempt to impose on the new nation even the institutions which mean most to us. 
Quite. It will seek those forms which seem to be best to meet the needs of the future and the continuities of local customs. I agree with the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  that nowhere is the dangerous potential of non-indigenous institutions and laws more apparent than in such matters as land tenure and justice. It is widely understood that a particular problem facing Papua New Guinea is to find that system of government which can develop a sense of national identity while recognising and expressing the view of an immense diversity of local groups. This cultural complexity will continue to be the source of a great deal of political tension, but the history of developing societies suggests that the worst problems are encountered where there is a very small number of very large groups pitted against one another. All through the country there is an appreciation of the importance of the local government councils. If they are continually encouraged they could give the local community sufficient sense of participation to help contain the inevitable tensions with the central government. 
The present thinking in the House of Assembly is that there should be one central government with a parliament of one chamber, though it is clear that the issue of the establishment of an upper house is not closed. I was pleased to see that the Constitutional Development Committee has left open this issue. The nature of modern government has not necessarily rendered upper houses obsolete. Indeed, the Australian Senate is at present finding a new and vital role in Australian government, and it could be that the particular needs of the local communities in Papua New Guinea could well be met with the provision of an upper chamber which has built into it the local and regional factor - perhaps by way of election to the upper house via the local or regional scene. 
The question of an upper house is left quite open in the report of the Constitutional Development Committee. So what we have is a system where the future relationship between the chief Minister, his Ministers and House of Assembly is necessarily left up in the air. It is high time, incidentally, that the Ministers should be officially recognised as Ministers and not as Ministerial Members, by a further amendment of the Act. 
The matter of localisation is of the utmost importance. Here the administration is faced with the almost irreconcilable demands of rapid, economic an.l social development and the demands this makes on a Public Service which is already overburdened and inevitably understaffed. So with too little time in which to do their basic jobs, the expatriate officers have to train local officers to take over their jobs at the same time. 
Papua New Guinea wants and we must continue to supply Australians of the highest skills and dedication. We need to do much more to develop and to tap to idealism of Australians to serve both Papua New Guinea and our nation and to be prepared fully to reward and reassure those who accept this challenge. I welcome the Minister's indication that he is locking at this matter at the moment. Young Papuans and New Guineans whom we encountered at the university in Port Moresby spoke of the importance ot expressing the heart and soul of their people as they develop their society, and of not cutting the roots and ties with local village life and custom. The Government's statement which we are discussing is in exactly the same vein. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. I refer to the concern the Minister expressed yesterday about the development of migrant education and welfare programmes. In pursuit of this objective will the Minister consider locating skilled advisers in the urban and suburban areas of high migrant concentration? 
This week we, the people's representatives, met again in this national Parliament for the first time after the winter recess. I was ashamed because the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  with all the considerable pettiness of argument that he could muster played on personalities and put the great issues which trouble the people of Australia to one side. Not only wasI ashamed but also was I surprised because the personal differences which we have in our Party are knocked into a cocked hat by the deep personal animosities and even hatreds which are built into the Opposition. 
It is no exaggeration to say that there are many in the Australian Labor Party who would rather go down to defeat than win with the present Leader of the Opposition. How far was the wish from the thought when the immediate past Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  told his colleagues yesterday that the Liberal Prime Minister might be here longer than they think? The immediate past Leader of the Opposition is admired, respected and loved by countless Australians. He is a man who understands and loves the Australian Labor Party from the grass roots up. He knows that the Australian Labor Party is a Party which was built by and for the unions. 
As recently as 1969 he said: 
The Labor Party is the same today as when 1 joined it 52 years ago. 
He said also: 
There is a pathetically small group of lower middle class Parly misfits and dissidents in Victoria who are trying to reform the Labor Party - as if you could reform the Labor Party! They want a new image Labor Party, but a new image Labor Party is a silly myth, a child-like variant of Grimm's fairy tales. 
The former Leader of the Opposition has pointed out - and he is right - that there is no such thing as private judgment in the Labor Party. There is neither private judgment for the individual Labor member of Parliament nor certainly private judgment for the man who should be given the proper power to judge how he should lead the Opposition. 
A Labor leader is not free to act decisively. He is not free to judge how he should lead the Australian people or to judge how he should lead his Cabinet or this Parliament. He and his colleagues in the Parliament are not free to heed public opinion, or the Press or the Australian people. In reply to those honourable members opposite who are trying to interject, I point out that he is not even free to heed  Sir Frank  Packer. Labor parliamentarians are bound hand and foot to the unions of Australia which built the Labor Party for their own ends. The unions to this day hold at least 60 per cent of the positions on the Australian Labor Party conferences and councils throughout Australia. These councils and conferences dictate policy to the Labor members of Parliament who therefore are denied the basic democratic right of representing in this Parliament al) the people. 
It is no wonder that  Mr Hawke  lately has asserted his leadership of the Labor movement over the Leader of the Opposition, for that leadership is a natural consequence of the domination of the unions over the ALP which lasts to this day. Today as much as yesterday, the Labor Party is dominated by outside vested interests, by Party and union bosses who can lay no claim to represent the people of Australia and who will not let the Leader of the Opposition do so either. Only yesterday, the Leader of the Opposition was bravely waging war on these outmoded, irrelevant and anti-democratic ideas on which his Party is based. He declared in 1969: 
The Australian Labor Party is absurdly authoritarian and disciplined. The vested interests in the Labor Party are a few people on the pay rolls of the Party and the unions in the capital cities of Australia. 
He vowed that he would reform the Labor Party. He said that he could not take time off in the election year of 1969 to do so, but he said: 'I am determined to do so'. Someone asked him: 'What if you find you cannot reform the Labor Party?' The Leader of the Opposition said: if I find 1 cannot reform the Labor Party, then I will cut my losses and get out'. Then in 1970 on the 'Four Corners' television programme, speaking of reform he said: 'We will no longer be run in Victoria' - 1 repeat the 'word 'run' - 'by an autocratic intolerant junta'. ft is true that in all fundamental respects the Labor Party today is the same as it. was yesterday. As  Mr George  Crawford, the man who represents the Socialist left in Victoria, who was the  president  of the Labor Party in Victoria and who is today the  chairman  of the Labor Party in Victoria said, at all times the Party must remain dominant over its members of Parliament who should be there to represent it in a way that the Party sees fit. Once again, we think of the remarks of the immediate past Leader of the Oppositionas if you could reform the Australian Labor Party'. What, then, still stands? The. outside control of the Labor Party still stands so that the power is officially still vested in the hands of the organisations outside Parliament. The trade union domination of those outside branches is to the extent of 60 per cent plus. There is still no private judgment in the Australian Labor 
Party. The Labor member pledges to obey a majority decision of his colleagues and has no right of conscience. The socialisation objective still stands. It is unbelievable that the socialisation objective could still stand in the platform of a political party in Australia in 1971. The other day, one of the new creatures of the Labor Party in Victoria, the new Labor Council, almost unanimously called on young Australians to refuse to obey the laws by refusing the draft. This, of course, echoes the Leader of the Opposition who said that when young men were told to go to Vietnam they should refuse to obey. A new image Labor Party is a silly myth. In the words of the immediate past leader of the Labor Party, it is a silly myth, a childlike variant of Grimms fairy tales, a fairy tale which has become a nightmare. 
I refer the Minister for the Army to the planned withdrawal of Australian troops from South Vietnam and ask him whether the Civil Affairs Unit will be withdrawn this year. If so, what will happen to further civic aid programmes in the Phuoc Tuy province? 
It is an extraordinarily complex international future which faces our nation. Gone are the implicities and the noble certainties of the past. Gone is the sense of assurance, which we had for so long, in the everlasting arms of the motherland. We stand alone,  Sir, on  the edge of Asia. Today we watch the tragic war in Vietnam wind down. But we cannot expect tomorrow's Asia to be less tangled or tense than today's. We have been a most fortunate nation both internationally and domestically. We have been a lucky country. But a lucky country can hardly be a great country except perhaps in the disc jockey sense of the term. There is no greatness in being tied to the apron strings. Now our need will be our opportunity. Our increasing isolation from our old friends and allies is our challenge, for we can and we must think and act more independently. 
In doing so we can begin to play a significant, if small, role in the affairs of nations and some day, maybe, a great role. But let us be under no illusions. Our withdrawal from the tragic Vietnam situation will not ease our burden of decision. Day by day our foreign, defence and trade policies will grow more difficult to formulate as we search for and define Australia's deep and unique national interests. The financial costs of bearing our own burden in our region will rise sharply. At home we must encourage an ever deeper understanding of the cultures of the nations of our region and of the international relationships within our region. 
Overseas we must maintain the first class foreign affairs representation which we have built up. We must talk to the Chinese, as our diplomats have done on the instructions of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  We must take trips to China - and T include the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in this. It is a good thing for the Leader of the Opposition to go to China. It is a sensible initiative and the sort of thing that an Opposition should be doing. Indeed, it would be a poor Leader of the Opposition who could not from time to time help to focus the nation's attention on a major issue and who could not even push the Government along a little. Taking a trip is, of course, one thing and a fashionable thing these days, but it is a risky venture though, admittedly, one which a responsible leader should take. So the Leader of the Opposition took a trip to China, and good luck to him. 
What a pity that he undid his good work. What a pity he got hooked by his addiction to the easy temptations of instant diplomacy and policy making. What a pity he did not take a trip, say little, learn as much as possible and come home quietly to ponder the possibilities and his future policy. What a pity to see the Leader of the Opposition go to Communist China, there to produce a policy. What a strange thing to see him there produce a policy which is not in Australia's best interests, a policy which sacrifices certain of our basic principles of international relations, a policy which could hardly be regarded as uniquely Australian or, indeed, as independent, a policy which talks of recognising the real facts but in fact takes the easy way out. 
How easy it all was and how reminiscent it was of the Leader of the Opposition's earlier trips to Papua New Guinea. Again he took an excellent initiative. He made a good move. But again the addiction to easy temptations of instant diplomacy destroyed the good work. How interesting and important was the fatal policy flaw in both cases? The fatal flaw was that the Leader of the Opposition sacrificed the self-determination of a people. Let us take New Guinea. He flew in the face of the United Nations declaration about self-determination of a people. He said when the people of Papua New Guinea should have self government. He said when the people of Papua New Guinea should have independence. He did not go there to listen to the people of Papua New Guinea and to say that he would put into effect what they wished in their way. He did not listen to the voices of the people of Papua New Guinea. 
Take Taiwan, where again he took the path of seeking apparent popularity at home, where again with his addiction to the temptations of instant diplomacy he took the easy and the inhumane way out by ignoring the future of the people of Taiwan. Let us be blunt. We have, all of us, been involved in fictions over China and in fictions over Taiwan. The Communist Chinese, or mainland Chinese as we call them today, as much as the Americans, as much as ourselves, as much as the Taiwanese regime, want reality. We want to approach reality in our attempt to solve this complex and terribly important human problem of international relations. 
But I argue that to put 2 facts together does not equal reality. That is to say, the fact that the people of mainland China recognise Taiwan as a province of China and that the Taiwanese regime recognises Taiwan also as a province of China does not lead us inexorably to the proposition that Taiwan, therefore, in all law, sense and justice is a province of China. It is not recognising reality to let this be the last word on the status of Taiwan. The native people of Taiwan were ruled briefly by the Spanish, the Portuguese and the Dutch, and then for more than 250 years by Manchu China until Japan acquired the island in 1895 and the people of Taiwan - or Formosa, as it used to be called - were not permitted self determination in 1945. 
What today are the main possibilities facing the people of Taiwan at this crucial turning point in their history when so much is in the balance for them? Which alternatives will allow the people of Taiwan the maximum opportunity of determining their own future? One future possibility is the conquest of Taiwan by mainland China. This could be either through armed force or through some sort of peaceful merger, but there is not a shadow of a doubt that Communist Chinese policy is to liberate Taiwan, and we have lived long enough with wars of national liberation to know what they mean. Equally there is no doubt that the great majority of Taiwan's people have little desire to be so liberated. 
The fatal flaw, the inhuman flaw - even, I would argue, the tragic flaw - in the policy of the Leader of the Opposition is that it says to the mainland Chinese: 'Go ahead. Liberate those Taiwanese who do not want to be liberated. They do not matter to me.' I repeat, that is precisely the policy of the Leader of the Opposition. He is saying to the Communist Chinese 'Go ahead'. He has not accepted the Canadian formula. He has rejected the Canadian formula inasmuch as the Canadian formula involved the Canadians in not finally pronouncing on the status of Taiwan. The Leader of the Opposition has finally pronounced on the status of Taiwan. He has declared that Taiwan is a province of China, and that, precisely, is what the Canadians were not prepared to do, and that is the heart of the fatal flaw in the approach of the Leader of the Opposition to this vital matter. 
I would argue that any other approach to the Taiwan problem is preferable to the approach of the Leader of the Opposition. Any other single approach that one can conceive is preferable, and this is because of the high principles which are involved. Because these high principles are involved in Australia's national interests and in Australia's national security, we must support the Prime Minister's important moves to recognise and to welcome mainland China to the United Nations. We must support him in doing this in such a way that the principles for which we, as a nation, have always fought, will still stand. Because mainland China and the present nationalist Chinese rulers will not budge from their claim over Taiwan - what one might call their legalistic claims - this is no ground for Australia to give away other people's basic rights by selling them to the strongest bidder, without even a fight. Surely an independent and uniquely Australian policy could never have meant this. 
I ask the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts whether he can give to the House any information about the proposal to establish an Australian National Film and Television School. 
Would the Prime Minister be prepared to follow up the opposition to apartheid which he recently expressed to the Prime Minister of South Africa by writing to him immediately and indicating that the Australian people would welcome teams chosen on a multi-racial basis at the earliest opportunity? 
My question to the PostmasterGeneral is concerned with the quality of radio transmission in Australia. Can the Minister tell the House when the Broadcasting Control Board's report on the desirability of frequency modulation transmission will be tabled? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania,is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore- humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I was greatly heartened by the objectives which the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  expressed when he outlined to the House recently the Commonwealth Government's education programme for 1971-72. He seemed to me to have an excellent philosophy of education and not through just talking in terms of facts and figures. A fresh approach, a sense of objectives and a strong philosophy of education have never been more necessary. I believe all Australians are crying out for answers to questions which the uncertainties, the complexities, the fears and the pace of the modern world have posed. As in so many areas it is simply not enough to call for more for education and more and more money for more and more education. Our generation has been getting more and more education and it has been exploding in our hands. Our generation has been encouraging educational expectations with only the haziest idea about the end of those expectations. Our generation has been pushing out doctors of philosophy, some of whom are virtually unemployable. 
What shall it profit a man, one might ask, that he gain a long education through a prolonged adolescence and lose his adaptability, his usefulness, his idealism and his happiness? Our generation has been confused about its own values and priorities and, not knowing what values should be passed on to the coming generation, has tended to strip education of moral and personal values. Clearly we need to know the facts about the education system and the Minister's record of research is splendid. We need that bit extra which can make sense of all our findings. We need wisdom and we need the wisdom of parents and students as much as we need the wisdom of administrators, teachers and politicians. So often our teachers seem to be people in search of a lost profession. So often they seem to be as troubled by their own professional identity as by the identity of those they are teaching. This in turn troubles the parents for its potential impact on their children. But it is not enough for government simply to tell the teachers to get on with the job and put the students first. Governments - and 1 say it in the plural - at every level must make every effort to understand the individual teacher and the dilemmas of the teaching profession. Our governments must have as a goal the greater involvement of practising teachers in solving the problems of the profession. 
I believe we should ultimately aim at a multi-system of education in which schools are created and controlled as far as possible by the local community rather than created and remote controlled in capital cities. We should stop talking about a dual education system and stress the advantages of the multi-education system which is with us and which should be developed. We should be aiming at an end to prejudice and an encouragement to the community to create the diversity in education which it requires. I would like to develop these ideas further, but there are particular estimates to which I wish to refer. They are the estimates of $25,800,000 for Commonwealth university scholarships and $7m for Commonwealth secondary scholarships. Ten thousand secondary scholarships are awarded annually without means test for the final 2 years of secondary education and comprise $200 for maintenance, $50 for books and up to $150 for school and examination fees. When  Sir Robert  Menzies introduced this scheme in 1964 he said: 
I believe that many, children of ability will be encouraged by this scheme to stay on at school for a longer period than they might otherwise have done to their own benefit and that of the nation. 
The purposes of the scheme were splendid, but today the Commonwealth secondary scholarships scheme does not basically serve the purpose of keeping able students at school, whatever other good purpose it does serve. Hardly a student seems to stay on at school today because he has won a scholarship. This is clear from research which the Australian Council for Educational Research has carried out. Its research among scholarship holders and their parents has established that the overwhelming majority of students would have remained at school had they not won an award. For example, in their study of the Melbourne area only 1 per cent would, according to the parents, have definitely left school if a scholarship had not been won. Now that we know some of the facts we must decide what we want from these scholarships and whether we want them to help those who really need help. I believe that the Government should seek a flexible, generous and humane test of the circumstances of parents so as to encourage those students whose parents have a real struggle to educate them. Another area where the 
Government could get better value for its limited resources is, I believe, in the area of university scholarships and living allowances. A sensitive and sensible study of student failures by the sub-dean of the faculty of Arts at the University of Melbourne,  Mr Dennis  0'Hearne, shows that many students who fail do so because of financial difficulties. 
A student who gets into financial difficulties is in an awful fix - a vicious circle - where initial minor failure leads to a degree of poverty because the award might well be, and usually is, taken away, which in its turn leads to greater failure and to greater need of all types. Even assuming limited resources and even assuming that we could not expand the amounts of allowances I am sure that meaningful changes could be made. The butter could be spread a little less thinly over the bread. Allowances could be maximised where they are most needed. There could be more emphasis on particular students and less on the general rules. Students should not have to live independently of their parents for nearly as long as 3 years to qualify as independent of those parents for the purpose of receiving allowances. The Government should consider establishing a working series of relatively high level liaison committees between the Department of Education and Science and the universities to consider the circumstances of particular students. Apart from the human costs involved there are, of course, heavy economic costs in student failure. A little more flexibility and a precise location of the real needs could, 1 believe, prove very rewarding. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least five million dollars immediately, even if this entails reduced spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question to the Minister for Education and. Science refers to his expressed intention of encouraging  research in education matters. Will the Minister consider instituting a cost-benefit analysis of the administration of Commonwealth university scholarships and living allowances? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members  of  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as a part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That, the Government go beyond the plea  of  the Prime Minister for magnanimity and compassion in the trial of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on charges of treason, and insist on the liberty  of  this openly and democratically elected leader. Your petitioners, as  in duty  bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least$10m immediately even if this entails reducing spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Services, ls it a fact that certain former Commonwealth employees who recently welcomed increases in Commonwealth superannuation payments have received reduced pensions and fringe benefits which can actually make them worse off than before? Will the Government allow such people the option of taking up such a percentage of the superannuation increase as will prevent this unhappy circumstance? 
The Opposition talks of independence in foreign affairs and defence matters, but the Government has been practising it. The Government did not accept the Communist Chinese position on entry to the United Nations, lt did not accept the Nationalist Chinese position on membership of the United Nations. The Government has not been saying precisely the same things about these great matters as has the United States Government. Indeed, our Government was in advance of the United States in making statements to the effect that Communist China should be taken into the Security Council after its admission to the United Nations. On the other hand, the policy of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has been to accept Communist China's position on Formosa, or Taiwan. I ask: Is this independence and is this a uniquely Australian foreign policy? Hardly, when the great majority of the people of Taiwan do not want to be ruled from Communist China. Is it independence for the Leader of the Opposition to talk in terms of Communist Chinese solutions to problems when we are talking in terms of our own solutions to these problems? 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has made it quite plain in the United States of America, as has the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  that we are no echo of the United States or indeed; I might add, of anyone else. If we were simply an echo of the United States we would today be training Cambodian troops in Cambodia because we were asked by the United States to take part in that sort of training scheme. The Government has made it quite clear that it is not taking part in that sort of training scheme. So Australia's power position has to be considered in the light of a changing Australian role in the world. Of course, we do not play a significant role in European affairs. We are not in that sense a significant world power. But we are already a significant power in our region. Our wealth, our resources, our interests and our policies make it quite plain that we are a significant power in our region. But our potential should make it just as plain that some day we will play a role as a great power in our region, and in this we have one abiding advantage which is dictated as much by nature as by our good intentions. Perhaps this is just as well when we consider that good intentions so often pave the way to a place to which we would not necessarily want to go. 
This abiding advantage is that we are one nation, one people, one culture on one island. History and geography and the good sense of our forefathers have drawn no contentious national boundaries across the face of our island. So we are saved from one of the most constant irritants which has beggared the best intentions of numerous nations. We lay no claims to any other men's lands. We seek no extension of our territory through ideological or military means. We go, therefore, with clean hands when we go to the aid of those whose territories have been infringed by others. In the past we have gone to the aid of those who called for our help, and we are proud of it. The Cambodians have called for all possible help and we are giving what assistance we believe we can today. Tomorrow there will be other calls upon us. The crucial point is that we must respond as Australians. Australia's national interests must be our first and final consideration. Our strategy must be developed on the basis of our unique role and position in the region. 
Of course we must work closely with our great friend and ally, the United States of America, and it is again clear, notwithstanding America's uncertain role with so much of the world, from the Prime Minister's experience there that we still have an extraordinarily good relationship with the United States. But the policies of the United States must never automatically commend themselves to us for the United States is a great power, but is not a domestic power in our region. Nor will the United States, after the Nixon doctrine, be impressed by an over-indulgence in automatic acceptance and reliance upon it. I welcome recent statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs which make it quite clear that we understand the full implications of the Nixon doctrine for us and our region. I have said that there will be other calls upon us and this needs to be outlined at this time. Two great events in particular - the withdrawal from Vietnam and the admission of the Chinese Communists to the United Nations - have induced some woolly euphoria and isolationism in Australia. This woolly euphoria and isolationism is bound up in wild expressions such as, 'Since the United States is withdrawing totally from Asia, we must', 'China has joined the United Nations and dropped all its old policies'; 'Great powers will never again become involved in South East Asia'. This sort of euphoria about the future is based on a fixed, dated and unhistorical understanding of international affairs in our region. 
The certainties of the cold war and the relative simplicities of the Asian power struggle may well be succeeded by uncertainties and instabilities which are even more fraught with danger. There is no doubt that our region is now a continuing and central locale of world conflict and not just area conflict. It is worth underlining the fact that while the United States role has contracted, it has far from disappeared in this region. The USSR, as we know, has recently increased its role and I would think it is inevitable that China will ultimately pay still greater attention to its external role. At the very least the activities of Japan alongside China will demand this of China. There is no doubt that the new balance of power is more complex and will induce more problems and uncertainties. There is no inexorable relationship between the loosening of alliances and commitments and the production of peace. The uneasy semi-truce between the 4 major powers will inevitably involve them in misunderstandings of one another; and the smaller powers will not necessarily find the confusion of relationships easy to comprehend at home or comforting abroad. The fact that threats to the region will be harder to pinpoint accurately in no way means that they will disappear. In fact there may be more to fear when the source of fear is less obvious and more complex - where the uncertainties are fraught with such dangers that we may yearn for older and simpler fears which we well understood. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the community of the La Trobe University respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972, will cause increased hardshipforasignificant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living coats are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary eduction. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships 2.Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability 
Abolition of tertiary fees 
And your petitions; as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science: Is it a fact that many graduates will have great difficulty in finding suitable employment in the months ahead? Are these difficulties likely to grow in the future as increasing numbers of graduates seek careers for which they have been trained? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister, and it also concerns the national need for restraint in price fixation. Did the right honourable gentleman himself take any steps to encourage  Broked  Hill Pty Co. Ltd to exercise restraint in fixing prices? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has he seen a reference in the Press to the 1971 Foreign Policy report of  Mr Rogers,  the United States Secretary of State, in which United States relations with Australia and New Zealand are discussed? Has the Minister seen the report of the Secretary of State? If so, did it indicate any basic change in United States relations with Australia? 
It has been a very odd experience throughout this debate listening to honourable members opposite going on and on in the most extreme terms to describe the motives of members of the Government parties. The sort of terms they have used betray their own motives. They used terms like: 'The debate is being prostituted to the level of shoddy political points' and 'no Government supporter has stood up to defend the system as a whole*. We have had talk of the muck of sectarianism' and so on. I would have thought that if the Opposition had a policy of its own of which it was proud we would hear very little or none of this sort of talk from member after member on the other side. However, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  for whom I have very considerable respect, tonight in his speech to the House said that no Government supporter has stood up to defend the system as a whole. This is exactly what every Government supporter has done. One after another, we have stood up precisely to defend the system as a whole, the system about which we are united, because we believe in the Australian education system that we have. We believe in the whole approach which is implicit in the Government's philosophy and practice and I include, of course, both Federal and State governments here. We are united in our approach to the Australian education system; the Opposition is disunited and so can only hurl abuse across the chamber. 
The Government is conscious of deficiencies in the Australian education system and not for a moment have honourable members on this side denied that there are deficiencies. Indeed, one Bill before us tonight is a living testament to our concern with a new development in the Australian education system, and I will come back to that later. Honourable members opposite have talked of Government members attempting to drive a wedge into the community. This is precisely what the Australian Labor Party has attempted to do at each extension of aid to independent schools. At each and every extension there have been loud voices from the Opposition side crying out against these extensions of Government aid to independent schools. If that is not driving a wedge into the community I do not know what is. It was sad to hear an honourable member opposite talking of the Government attempting to stir up the old sectarian scum. That language, that sort of thinking, that bigotry, is utterly foreign to the Government and, I venture to suggest, that bigotry is utterly foreign to the great majority of Australians. As Australia has drawn up her own sense of identity she has left behind the bulk of the bigotry of the old world. We are big enough and strong enough in Australia to grow without bigotry. As we have found our way as a nation, the background, cultures and particularly the religions of our settlers have helped us to pick up a uniquely Australian identity and at the heart of this there is the belief in tolerance, a belief in a fair go and a belief in diversity. 
This is precisely what we do have in our Party. It is at the very heart of our Party and it is what is missing in the Opposition because its members have no freedom to stand up in this or any other place and disagree with its policy. 
Yes, I have. It is a freedom we have and it is precisely the freedom that members of the Labor Party do not have. This issue illustrates the basic belief of the Liberal Party in the sort of education which Australians want and which it believes Australians ought to get. But what do we find on the other side of the House? We find that the Australian Labor Party is organisationally tied to its outside union controllers. Honourable members opposite do not make their own policies, yet they have the temerity to come here and talk about freedom. We are looking for a moment at the Australian Labor Party's approach to education. I have spoken about it briefly in organisational terms but let us now look at its philosophy. It is still fighting philosophical battles with the ghosts of the past and many of its greatest internal rights in recent years have been over State aid. Obsessed with envy for a few schools, the Labor Party has tended to turn against countless schools again and again. Filled with principles of centralist uniformity it has begrudged positive policies designed to create diversity and freedom in education. In recent times we have the spectacle of 3 leading spokesmen for the Australian Labor Party in this area making quite contrary statements. 
Yes, here we go again, but it has to be said again. We have had the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this House with one approach and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate stating a quite different approach. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate talked in terms of aiding State schools first. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  in yet another approach in relation to the projected Australian schools commission, talked about allocatig grants through a dozen locally based committees. So we have the Labor Party in this area speaking with many voices. As recently as the other day the 2 Labor senators on the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts in the report on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education made comments which illustrate their concern about the freedom of Australians to get the education they want. In a dissenting report at page 96 they said: 
No persuasive reasons were advanced to the Committee as to why the maintenance of the Catholic school system should demand separate training of its teachers. The provision of continuing religious indoctrination- 
Can honourable members conceive of a more loaded term to describe what any honourable member would ' have called religious education -  which is undoubtedly prized by Catholics and which is their main justification for the  perpetuation  of their separate school system, is a matter to be entrusted to their own religious orders, and should not, in fact probably cannot under the Constitution, be a matter with which the Commonwealth Government can concern itself. 
So we have the official Labor Party policy along these lines: lt accepts State aid to schools but is not prepared to accept State aid to tertiary Catholic educational institutions. It draws all sorts of constitutional red herrings across the path to make it look as though there is good constitutional doctrine in favour of their stand which can only drive a wedge into the Australian community, a community which believes in freedom and diversity in education. This is the heart of the whole approach of the Government to education in Australia, lt is an approach which has tolerance and a positive belief in diversity, so that Australians can stand on their own feet and have the education they want. 
Over the years this principle has been increasingly recognised by Liberal -Country Party governments. I put it in these terms; We originally had a belief in the maintenance of the independent schools and in more recent years there has been a more positive encouragement of them. 1 believe we are moving into a third phase of promotion of independent schools. Throughout these phases, national priorities have been a guiding light to the Government. They will continue to be a guiding light for the Government. Broadly, in the first phase the Government provides funds for science blocks and libraries in a non divisive way to government and independent schools alike. This aid is directed at specific measurable objects so a needs test is appropriate. It is possible to determine where science blocks and libraries are needed and I do not think any honourable member would deny that. The second and somewhat different phase is per capita grants to independent schools. This policy in the second major phase is being pursued instead of using a regular needs basis in assessment of grants to schools. On this point  Mr Whitlam  has said that these grants ought to be on a basis of needs. 
I do not agree. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I. ask the honourable gentleman to refer to the Leader of the Opposition by his title and not by bis name. 
Certainly. I am sorry. I withdraw that reference and accord the honourable gentleman his title of Leader of the Opposition. I cannot agree with the Leader of the Opposition, with the most profound respect, on this quetion of a needs test for the per capita grants, because I do not know what he means. We have so little detail about what he intends by the expression 'means test' or the basis of needs. We bad some suggestions from the honourable member for Frementale  (Mr Beazley),  but we have had so little information about what he is getting at that we could not possibly on this side of the House take a long look at it as a positive proposal for the Government to consider. The point is that the sort of suggestion that the Leader of the Opposition has made is a chance suggestion. The basis might be staff/student ratio or size of classes. What does this mean in practice? In practice it could well subsidise the inefficient so that where there is a bad staff/student ratio, funds are directed to that school. The staff/ student ratio then improves, the school no longer needs extra funds, the extra funds are taken away and the staff/ student ratio again deteriorates. So I ask the question: Just what can the Leader of the Opposition mean in practical terms by this suggestion? As I see it there is an inherent tendency in that proposal to subsidise the inefficient school. Further, I believe it has an inherent tendency to produce uncertainty so that schools on a day to day basis would be unable decently to manage their own affairs. It could lead to the creation of divisions among schools in addition to the uncertainty which I have suggested would come about. 
I am suggesting that there is a very important difference between our approach to per capita grants and our approach to the objectively measurable science blocks, libraries and so on. In other words, we have shown that we have a flexible and sensible approach to this matter. I suggest that we have come to a new phase in the assessment of national priorities in education, and I think this is a very important phase. It is instanced by one of the Bills to which we are addressing ourselves tonight, the purpose of which is to provide grants to the States to be used for State schools. In this phase we recognise that at certain times State governments may be unable to cope with all the difficulties of State education. It is plain to any honourable member who has followed this subject closely that various States have paid special regard to urgent needs in urban areas where schools are overcrowded, old fashioned and need regenerating. 
The Commonwealth is providing extra funds to enable the States to fulfil the objective of regenerating schools in the older areas where obviously special problems have arisen. I am suggesting that the Commonwealth Government has been realistic. It has recognised different needs as they have emerged from time to time and will continue to do so, but not by taking over day to day decisions. Let us have a quick look at the Labor Party's proposal for a national schools commission. We see very little. We see an obvious federal bureaucracy, a body which is supposed to be like the Australian Universities Commission. The Australian Universities Commission has 18 universities to look after, but an Australian schools commission would have about 10,000 schools to look after, with the number increasing by the score every term. 
As every honourable member knows, there are very significant differences between the way that universities traditionally have been run and the way that schools traditionally have been run. Universities in important respects are still autonomous. Parts of the school system have a degree of autonomy. They do not have the degree of autonomy which I would like to see them have and which in the future they ought to have. I am not suggesting that schools ought to have precisely the same autonomy as do universities. In this area there is an enormous difference between schools and universities. 
A national schools commission as suggested by the Leader of the Opposition could be effective only if it made day to day decisions. It is of no use setting up a body at the national level to allocate moneys on a needs basis if it does not go into every school in the country and make day to day decisions. This is a fundamental philosophical objection we have to the proposal. Such a commission might be effective in making some day to day decisions, but it would probably be most effective in destroying precisely those elements which are needed in the world today. Those elements are participation and involvement at the local level. The Liberal Party believes in a decentralised system of government. We heard some nice words from the Leader of the Opposition about decentralisation, but it appears that he is trying to get decentralisation through centralisation. 
My view is quite plain - there is a good deal of machinery already there for the decentralisation of authority within the educational system, and to create this large shadowy centralised body on all that we know of it could do little to solve the problems with which we are faced. I will make one or two final remarks about the sort of future hoped for by Liberals. We believe in a system of education whereby parents and the community have a very great involvement and whereby a school grows out of the involvement of the parents. This has, of course, been the cardinal feature of the independent schools system. My personal view is that in the long run we would want to strive for an education system - a multi system - in which this sort of involvement would be the most natural thing. Under such a system the State capital and particularly the Commonwealth capital would not say in the case of a new school: 'Let us go out and put it there'. Instead we would have the community rising and saying: 'Let us put the school here'. 
Mir  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order!  The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
I rise to support the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  who initiated this discussion, as a matter of public importance on: 
The need to rebut recent public statements tending to undermine Australia's existing agreements with its friends and neighbours in the South East Asian region. 
The reason of this debate is statements made in Asia by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  who spoke just before the House suspended for the dinner break. In that speech the honourable member concerned himself wi h trivia and irrelevancies as well as with distortions of history with which he attempted to justify his lack of a policy. The honourable member was concerned also with utterly cheap sensation seeking and with an utterly below the belt use of abuse of the opinions of a high official of a friendly foreign country who, if he is hurt - and hurt he must be by what the honourable member has said - has no redress as a responsible and honourable man against the abuse of his opinions by the honourable member for St George. How can  Mr Rajaratnam  rush to defend himself without doing a disservice to his high office, to his nation and to the Australian nation? 
The honourable member for St George has put  Mr Rajaratnam  in an absolutely impossible position. This is hitting below the belt in a way that can only harm  Mr Rajaratnam  and Australia and Australia's relationships with one of its closest friends in the region. This is the sort of behaviour which the people of Australia despise. The whole Australian character is built on the idea that you give a man a fair go and a chance to put his point of view. This is the sort of behaviour which must make the honourable member for St George's one time colleagues in the Department of Foreign Affairs await his latest political slogans with horror. It makes a member of this Parliament a little bit ashamed. All is not fair in love and war or politics. Some values must remain when all has been said and done. 
Let us go back and look at the circumstances under which the honourable member for St George visited South East Asia and in particular  Mr Rajaratnam,  Singapore's Foreign Minister. He went as Labor's envoy to explain Labor's policies with the approval of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  On his own admission - or in his own boast - he went up there with a job to do for the Labor Party. He appeared, oddly enough, to relish the role, if we can judge by the carefree, slick, wanton and irresponsible statements he made. He went with one message - a message from the Labor Party which the New Zealand Labour Party would not have a bar of, and I suspect secretly some members of his Party would not have a bar of.  His  one big message for our Asian friends was: 'The Australian Labor Party does not care for the pacts and arrangements which it has with you'. He did not go in a diplomatic way to discuss; he went to destroy. He did not, as Labor's envoy, go to co-operate; he went to opt out - &lt;o opt out of our major links with some of our closest and best friends in the region. 
He, Labor's envoy in Asia, did not go offering major new links with our friends there. He, as Labor's envoy, offered only a little' Australia, a mean-minded navelgazing Australia. He offered an old-fashioned Labor Australia which pathetically assumed that all international conflict begins and ends with the great conflict of the cold war. He offered a Labor view of history which takes the extraordinary turn of stating flatly that there will be no conflict in our region in the foreseeable future. He virtually says that the military instrument has had it. Indeed, in many ways the military instrument is less relevant today than it was and the Australian Government thoroughly recognises this fact in its policies. But this is a far cry from assuming that things like  Mr Nixon's  trip to China mean that we are in a new golden age where human nature has also taken a great leap forward. 
We do not make the claims for the South East Asian Treatry Organisation today that the honourable member for St George assumes or would have us make. 
The honourable member did in his statement in Asia, and that is what this debate is about. The world and the region have changed and SEATO has changed. SEATO has changed and reflects this. But the honourable member for St George still sees SEATO in the terms of the 1950s. He sees SEATO in oldfashioned Labor terms. He and the Labor Party do not care that Thailand and the Philippines feel today that SEATO is a basic guarantee of their freedom in their perilous position. Of course, as the honourable member for St George said, treaties may well not be worth the paper on which they are written. This is the point. If the honourable member goes to Asia and says the sort of things he has been saying, of course these treaties are not worth the paper they are written on, and that is the occasion of the debate today. In Asia it matters, quite simply, that we care and that we are prepared to put our men and money where our hearts are. 
Take the 5-Power arrangements. They were never cast in the old cold war terms such as the honourable member for St George has assumed. The 5-Power arrangements recognise the nature of power in the Asian region today. They recognise the types of conflicts which we have seen through the 1940s to the 1960s in the Asian region. I refer to the Malaya emergency, the Azahari rebellion and, of course, the Indonesian confrontation. Singapore and Malaysia want us to be involved. They want us to be involved in the way we are involved today. There have been questions about the precise disposition of our troops in Singapore and Malaysia but there is no questioning of the general feeling in Malaysia and Singapore that the 5-Power arrangements are crucial to them. They may be replaced by something else, but those countries will want something very real to replace them at some future date. 
With all this background, and knowing that Labor's policy was to get out, the honourable member for St George went to  Mr Rajaratnam.  What did the honourable member do? He confronted  Mr Rajaratnam  with blunt statements. What else could  Mr Rajaratnam  do but say something like: 'I am not overly concerned*. Precious comfort this must have been to the honourable member for St George to hear that  Mr Rajaratnam  was not overly concerned but only perhaps pretty concerned. I would be astounded if  Mr Rajaratnam  in bis interview with the honourable member did not make some other sorts of statements because we have heard so often that the people of the region believe in the 5-Power arrangements. I would be surprised if all he said was that he is not overly concerned. This is the sort of dilemma I mentioned before which he is placed in by what the honourable member has done there. The honourable member has also said that foreign affairs are less important. Today, as never before, independent Australian initiatives are called for in our region, with the full field of diplomatic activity before us and a genuine concern for the people of Asia. 
I address my question to the Minister for Education and Science. Can the Minister inform the House of the degree of increase of expenditure by governments on state primary and secondary education since the Commonwealth per capita grants were begun? 
Can the Minister for Social Services provide the House with any further information in relation to his decision to refuse unemployment benefit to certain persons in connection with the recent Victorian power strike? Is there any justification for the criticism of the Government's policy in this matter? 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  talked about the odds against which the people in North Vietnam have been fighting, but today we are talking about the odds against which the people in South Vietnam are fighting. He talked about weighing the consequences in these areas. This is precisely what he is not prepared to do in his call to people to take to the streets. He talked about wanting the war to come to an end. Of course we want the war to come to an end, but what the honourable member wants is for the war to be won by the people of the North. The honourable member for Lalor has completely distorted the long and the recent history of Vietnam. He made a great point of how northerners make up part of the 
South Vietnamese Army. Such northerners who have gone to the South have chosen to go to the South to make a life of their own in the South - the type of life they want to make in the South. They have chosen to make a life in a part of the world which is recognised internationally as a separate nation. 
What we are debating today - and. the honourable member for Lalor completely skirted the issue - is a call by the honourable member which is an authoritarian- call to mindless mass action. The honourable member's call makes ' a mockery of the Australian Labor Party's attempt to convince the people that the United StatesAustralian alliance is still important to that Party and to the people of Australia. It makes a mockery of any ALP claim to have a defence policy for Australia. For that reason we propose that the House should ask the Government to consider the grave implications of the call for a mass return to the streets supporting the aggression by Regular North Vietnamese armed forces within South Vietnam and calling for an end to the United States-Australian alliance. 
This call came from the honourable member for Lalor and the organisation which he chairs. He is no insignificant member of the ALP. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has declared publicly that the honourable member for Lalor would be a very senior member of any Labor government. He has been a leading Labor spokesman on foreign affairs and defence for years. He has called upon the people to take to the streets before today. He is now calling upon the people to take to the streets again. Previously he called upon the people to take to the streets in order to break the law so that the law might be changed. It is not that his line has been utterly consistent. At about the time when he challenged his Leader for the leadership of the Labor Party and came within a handful of votes of replacing the present leader, he took a much more moderate line on demonstrations than he has in recent times. 
I well remember being at a large public meeting at the University of Melbourne when the honourable member for Lalor said: 'A demonstration where anyone gets arrested has failed'. So great was the shock felt by the students who were at that meeting that the honourable member said: 'I repeat! A demonstration where anyone gets arrested has failed'. A student next to me turned to his friend and said: 'What has happened to pur leader?' What happened to the honourable member for Lalor about a year later? He went out and got himself arrested. He broke the law in order to change the law. 
What has happened, of course, in recent times )s that he and the Leader of the Opposition have been regularly outdoing one another in delivering blows at the very foundations of our democratic system. The honourable member for Lalor, as I have said, got himself arrested. The Leader of the Opposition has told conscripts not to obey orders. He has also made the extraordinary statement, which has been denied by senior colleagues of his, that draft dodging is not a crime. Even the draft dodgers themselves must despise that statement. They know the stakes for which they are playing and they would not be in it if it were not a crime. I admit that the Leader of the Opposition blushes as he attempts to buy their votes. But the content and the context of the honourable member for Lalor's latest call to the streets makes it terribly plain that he simply does not believe in our democratic system. This is a grave matter because he would be a very senior member of any Labor government and would have a great deal to do with its foreign and defence policy. He wants the Americans out of Asia. He wants an end to the United StatesAustralia alliance 
Why does Labor's most knowledgable spokesman make this call? Why, when the South Vietnamese forces have been knocked, does he in effect say: They are down so put the boot in'? Why has he been reported as saying that people who want to protest against communist North Vietnamese aggression in the south are not welcome to take to the streets with him? The honourable member for Lalor has made this call because he wants the North Vietnamese aggressors to win the war. I challenge the honourable member to put his views and where he stands in black and white for the people of Australia to see. While the people of Australia have been longing  -  I say 'longing' advisedly - for a fair peace in Vietnam the honourable member for Lalor has been longing for a communist victory. He has been longing for a communist victory because he still sees the world in the old fashioned cold war capitalists versus communists terms. He has been longing for a North Vietnamese communist victory because it is a part of his old fashioned philosophy of history that the tides of communist and socialist 
The honourable member for Lalor has been longing for a North Vietnamese communist victory because it is a part of his old fashioned philosophy of history that the tides of communist and socialist revolution are sweeping inexorably through Asia. We reject that philosophy of history, as so much of Asia has rejected it. And how it hurts the Australian Labor Party every time an Asian nation wishes to resist aggression of any sort, be it communist or otherwise! There are members of the Australian Labor Party who certainly will not come into this House and openly call for communist victories but who jeer and sneer every time the non-communist world of Asia wishes to resist aggression. 
It is absolutely true that many Australians have had doubts about the origin and prosecution of the Vietnam war, but it has never been true that the people of Australia have longed for a communist victory, as the honourable member for Lalor longs for a communist victory. We utterly reject this Labor thinking. But that is not all. The honourable member for Lalor's call is in itself an authoritarian call to mass action. He is reported as having told those who want to protest against the aggression by the north against the south that they would not be welcome at the demonstration. The honourable member has revealed at last that he is not interested in facts or fairness; that he is not interested in debate or, indeed, democracy; that he will not have a bar of that sort of democracy at home; and that he works for a victory for the communist aggressors in Asia. The Opposition can do nothing but dissociate itself from every shred of the honourable member's sentiments in bis call for Australia to follow his authoritarian lead into the streets. 
I ask the Treasurer whether, in view of the national importance and urgency of the proposed White Paper on overseas investment in Australia, he can assure the House that the White Paper will be presented to this House for discussion by the people and the Parliament of Australia as soon as possible. 
Has the Minister for Housing seen a statement that the home savings grants scheme has not been of use to young couples desiring to acquire or own their own home? Is this scheme receiving lessened support in the community and does the Minister know of any substitute proposed for this scheme? 
On the one hand, honourable members opposite are telling us that this is a trivial matter and one which we should not have raised in this way in this House. On the other hand, the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  for whom we have very considerable respect, has extolled at great . length officers of the Commonwealth Electoral Office in his State of Queensland. It became clear that he attaches the utmost significance to the standards which are maintained by these officers in the administration of their duties. There is nothing trivial about the charges made by  Mr Westerway  against the officers of the Electoral Office. There is nothing trivial about this matter having been raised today in this manner. To listen to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  - we all have the greatest affection for him and he is the funniest man in the House - one would think that this was a funny matter. But it is not a funny matter. He spent the whole of his time telling us about everything except the matter under consideration. He said that the Government did not vouch for the statement made by  Mr Westerway. Mr Westerway  himself has had 2 weeks in which to vouch for the accuracy of his statement. 
Yes, 6 weeks. The Leader of the Opposition (Mr Whitlam) has had weeks to repudiate that statement. So the occasion for this debate arises from the wild, unsubstantiated and irresponsible allegations made by the General Secretary of the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party. He has made alle'gations of corruption against those who cannot hit back, yet now we have utter silence from the Leader of the Opposition and utter silence on the real issue from honourable members opposite who have just spoken in the debate. Of course, this is the oldest ruse in the world to cover up the sordid, squalid story of Australian Labor Party intrigue, backbiting and corruption which emerges from the Australian Labor Party's Shortland pre-selection ballots. The Australian Labor Party will live to rue the day when it stooped to this ruse because the people of Australia are not fools and they will judge for themselves. The Australian Labor Party will rue the day that it miserably and nastily attacked officers of the Commonwealth in order to cover up its own squalor, for by its own act it is inviting the people of Australia to check the Labor Party's house. The people were reminded of the state of the Australian Labor Party house in Victoria recently when the Victorian branch supported the North Vietnamese communists. So much for the so-called reforms of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria. Now we are being invited by these public statements by the general secretary of the New South Wales Labor Party to address our attention to the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party. 
A story of intrigue and corruption is being told about the New South Wales Australian Labor Party. So much for the so-called reform of the Labor Party in New South Wales. So much for the socalled reform of the Labor Party in Australia. Indeed, the effect of the reforms of the Labor Party in New South Wales have been to drive decent, moderate and honest Australian Labor Party members deeperinto despair as the forces - - 
I am confining my remarks to the matter of relevance - the statements by the general secretary of the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales. I am talking about the matters which come under his administration and the matter of Shortland, which was raised in the Minister's statement. I will undertake to keep to your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  As I said, the effect of the so-called reforms of the Australian Labor Party has been to drive the decent and moderate forces of the Labor Party deeper into despair as the forces opposing them have gained more ground over the last year or two. 
Through all this, the only leadership that the Leader of the Opposition has given is to fail to come into this House and repudiate statements made with the most utter irresponsibility by men who, we are told by honourable members opposite, have nothing to do with him. Nothing to do with him when they run the Labor Party in New 
South Wales? The point is that the only sort of leadership the Leader of the Opposition has given is to the forces of the left wing in New South Wales and Victoria in order to keep them on side. But they will never be kept on his side except on their terms. The Leader of the Opposition has recognised that he has failed to reform the New South Wales Labor Party. He recently attacked the New South Wales system of candidate selection - we bear right in on the question of Shortland here - because he said that the New South Wales system of selection is a system in which anyone who wants to stand for the Labor Party must devote all his time and energy to building up his personal support in local branches. 
The honourable member's Leader said just that, namely, that in safe Labor seats in New South Wales - he was talking about his colleagues opposite; men like the honourable member for Grayndler - to gain preselection for the Labor Party, candidates would have to devote all their interests and their political activities to doing just that. 
Yes, that is exactly right. The Leader of the Opposition pointed out that, as a consequence of this, outstanding people do not get selected in the Labor Party in New South Wales. We are sorry that he feels like that about the honourable gentlemen sitting alongside him. We are sorry that they are not the most outstanding characters who could have been selected by the Labor Party in New South Wales. We understand that situation, although we have the greatest affection for many honourable members opposite. 
Well, raffles have rules. Raffles are better than Rafferty's rules, such as the Labor Party has in New South Wales. The Leader of the Opposition said the outstanding candidates are deterred in New South Wales. This might not matter much. In fact, it is probably of very considerable advantage to honourable members opposite. However, it does matter to the people of Australia. The whole ques tion of Shortland has blown the lid off what everybody has known for as long as they have known anything about New South Wales politics. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that, inasmuch as candidates must devote all their time, they cannot be the most outstanding chaps. This is a problem for the people of Australia. This is the real issue which the general secretary of the New South Wales Labor Party was trying to throw a smoke screen over when he, in a most sordid fashion, attacked the Commonwealth electoral officers who have no right to attack him in return. The Shortland pre-selection goes further than what I have already indicated. It has lifted the lid off a most sordid story of intrigue and. corruption and we have had the most wild allegations about behaviour that all decent Australians must only deplore. It is the sort of behaviour which I have never seen in the Australian Liberal Party and which, I fancy to suggest, members on this side of the House have never seen in their parties. What are these allegations that we have heard and which have been made in public? They are floating around this place and everywhere else in the form of statutory declarations. They are allegations not just of the usual thing of winning friends and influencing people. They go much further than that. The allegation is not simply that people who would aspire to be members opposite joined branches and attempted to build up support. The allegation is that they have tapped telephones, that there has been bribery and that men have been offered very substantial financial rewards for declaring false statements. 
Let us look at the situation. In a recent interview on the television programme This Day Tonight', the man who on at least  2  occasions was selected as the candidate for Shortland said:  lt is coming to the stage where statutory declarations are not worth the paper they are written on. 
So, what has come to pass, one might say, is a farcical situation. The interviewer then reminded  Mr Donnelly  that: 
These are very serious charges, though. 

 Mr Donnelly, who was selected for Shortland, said: 
They are very serious charges indeed. 
I remind you,  Mr Speaker,  that this is the New South Wales branch of the Australian 
Labor Party. The interviewer then went on to ask about bribery and telephone tapping and the man who twice was selected as the Australian Labor Party candidate for Shortland said: 
All these documents may be true and, then again, they .may be false. However, the point is that whether they be true or false they reveal the depths of bitterness and degradation into which the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales has sunk. 
So, I say that all this adds up to the so-called reform of the Labor Party in New South Wales. What do we now have in this matter of Shortland? We have the Australian Labor Party Federal Executive deciding that it will hold a fourth ballot to select a candidate for the seat of Shortland. It decided this after a committee of inquiry set up by the Federal Executive said that the matter should be decided by the local people. So much for the reform of the Labor Party in New South Wales. So much for democracy and decency there. 
I address a question without notice to the Minister for the Environment. Is there any truth in the report appearing in the Melbourne 'Herald' of 8th May that  Mr Fred  Williams, an artist recently appointed to the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board, knows little about the Board's activities, has not been informed of his duties, and was instructed from Canberra to keep his mouth shut and not to stir up trouble? 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has said that the Australian Labor Party has acknowledged this question of portability of pensions for a very long time. Therefore, one would think that honourable members opposite would have had time to think about it. One would think that they would have had time, when they introduced a Bill on this very matter only a few weeks ago, to have included in it the propositions which they advance today. One would think they would have included in that Bill the sorts of propositions which they now want to enshrine in this Bill, which are set out in the amendment which they have moved to this Bill. But that is far from the case. 
The honourable member for Hughes talked in terms of the unequivocal commitments which the Labor Party has made on this question of the portability of pensions. I should have thought that the only unequivocal commitments which the Labor Party has made on this and just about every other question are to a 10 bob each way bet on policy issues and to overall bribery of the Australian people by promising what is very nearly the earth. lt has promised to spend thousands of millions of dollars of the Australian taxpayers' money. As I say, the Labor Party's stand on this issue is typical of its whole approach to policy formation. 
A few weeks ago the Labor Party came forward with a quite clear policy on this issue, it presented a Bill which the Leader of the Opposition described as a Bill in good simple English. Indeed, it was a Bill in good but simplistic English, because it stated that people who are Australian citizens will be able to carry their pensions outside Australia. The Leader of the Opposition included a number of types of pensioners. He included widow and age pensioners. The Labor Party, in its amendment to the Government's Bill, is completely ignoring its previous proposition that portability of pensions should apply to Australian citizens. Another absolutely fundamental proposition was advanced in the Opposition's earlier Bill, and it was that pensions should be paid to Australian citizens who went abroad, no matter what period of residence they had had in Australia before either going to their homeland or to some other country. There was no residential qualification whatsoever in that Bill, apart, of course, from the naturalisation requirement. 
When I came into the House today and saw the amendment which the Opposition had moved I was amazed to find that the 
Opposition wants to enshrine a 10 year residence qualification in the Bill which is before us. Under the Government's proposal standard pensions will be paid to people who leave Australia after 20 years residence in Australia. That 20 years period of residence can be an aggregate period; it does not have to be one continuous residence. But it is important to point out that under the Bill a pension will be paid to any invalid pensioner, no matter what his period of residence in Australia has been. A pension also will be paid to a widow pensioner who leaves Australia to live in any other country with which we have a reciprocal arrangement. There is no residence qualification required in regard to invalid and widow pensions, but I point out that the proposition which the Labor Party previously advanced contained the qualification that those who would benefit had to be Australian citizens. 
The effect of this legislation is that a pension will be paid to those who go overseas after they have resided in Australia for a reasonable period, and there are very good reasons for this provision. It would be absurd for Australia to become a sort of Mexico pension haven, lt would be absurd to pay pensions to people who might come and live in Australia for only a year - at whatever point in their lives - and then go and live overseas from then on. 1 think the people of Australia would regard it as a highly reasonable proposition that there should be a period of residence qualification except, of course, in cases involving problems such as widowhood or where the new arrival in Australia is at some point struck down by illness. I think the good sense of the Australian people will enable them to understand fully the reasoning behind this measure. 
We want to do all that we can for those migrants who come to Australia but who decide that they want to leave, at the same time not being unfair to the basic Australian taxpayer. In one important respect the Government's propositions are more generous than the propositions of the Labor Party in this area. I refer to Labor's original proposition regarding naturalisation. If we did not pay pensions overseas to persons who had not been naturalised we could exclude a large number of people - nearly a quarter of a million 
Australians - from receiving pension rights. Nearly a quarter of a million people who have come from other nations to live in Australia and who have qualified to be naturalised as Australians have not been naturalised. In other words, nearly a quarter of a million Australians could not possibly qualify for a pension under the basic proposition which, as we heard propounded by the honourable member for Hughes, the Labor Party has brought forward and which had been given so much consideration over so many years. 
Let us compare and contrast that proposition with the number of people who would miss out under the Government's proposal contained in the substantive legislation which we are now considering. Under the Government's legislation those people who would miss out would be those standard age pensioners who have not put in 20 years in Australia. The Leader of the Opposition attempted to show by citing figures that because the bulk of migrants from other countries has arrived in Australia only in the last 20 years, therefore they would miss out under the Government's proposal. What an extraordinary proposition. The whole question is: What are the ages of the migrants upon their arrival in Australia? Whatever measure we use, the ages of migrants on arrival in Australia make it quite clear that the overwhelming majority of all settlers in Australia, permanent or long term arrivals, involve people who are under the age of 45 years which would therefore place them in a position to take out the full benefits of the age provision. Of course, like anyone else they are entitled to the other social service benefits. 
If we look at the statistics relating to the age of permanent and long term arrivals in Australia for the period 1945 to 1971 we find that 11.3 per cent of all arrivals in Australia in that period were older than 45 years of age. They are the ones who would not qualify under the Government's legislation. But of course a good many of them may well qualify for the widow pension or an invalid pension. In terms of numbers the 11.3 per cent is equivalent to approximately 400,000 people who have arrived in Australia during the whole period of the post-war migration programme. Many of those people would, of course, be deceased. I do not have the sort of figures that would disclose how many of them are living but a very large number of them would be deceased. So we take a figure way under the 40,000 and compare that with the 230,000-odd people who would not qualify under the proposal which the Labor Party originated in a Bill before this House. We now find that the Labor Party, having perhaps seen some of the errors of its ways, has changed its whole approach and decided to attempt to alter by way of amendment the provisions contained in this Bill by seeking to reduce the period of 20- years residence to 10 years. If this period is reduced to 10 years I believe - and I am open to correction to this - that we would still run into the possibility of people staying in Australia merely to qualify for the pension and then moving on. 
We heard from the Leader of the Opposition a good deal of talk about reciprocal arrangements and the fact that it was necessary for reciprocal arrangements to be made before any person could qualify for a pension. This looks all right at first sight. It looks as if there might be some ground for criticism, until we get an assurance from the Minister for Social Services, which I am sure he can give, that he does not expect to encounter difficulties in making reciprocal arrangements. It is clear also from what he has said already that his whole aim in making reciprocal arrangements is to safeguard the interests of those people who have migrated to Australia in recent years and who might have trouble with their pensions if reciprocal arrangements are not made. 
The Minister has been chastised by the Leader of the Opposition for refusing to make or for not making arrangements with what the Leader of the Opposition described as 'captive nations'. The Minister, so far as I understand it, has at no point said that arrangements would not be made with captive nations. The Minister would be as aware as is any other person in this House or in this country that there would be remarkably few people in Australia who migrated here from captive nations who would want to return to those nations. It would be clear also to any one who knows anything about this that those people who have come to Australia from captive nations and who have decided to move from Australia to another country, apart from the country from which they originally came, will have the benefit, wherever they go. It is always open to the Government to attempt to make arrangements, should the need arise, with the so called captive nations. 
In view of the limited time that we have in which to dispose of the rest of the business of the House before the House rises, perhaps at a later hour today, I say in conclusion that I find the whole approach of the Opposition in this area to be absolutely typical. It is a 10-bob each way approach. It has flung a proposition into the ring in an attempt to buy support or bribe support. The Opposition finds that it is a goer, so it comes forward with an amendment to a substantial measure which the Government has brought forward. It is an amendment which does not really meet the needs of the basic Australian taxpayer or the needs of the pensioners whom we are aiming to help with this legislation. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Did he notice a report in the Melbourne 'Sun' referring to the cancellation of talks between Indonesia and Australia on the subject of the continental shelf? Did the report accurately portray Australia's position? 
In view of the deep national concern about the problem of poverty in Australia can the Prime Minister inform the House whether yesterday's Budget places pensioners above the poverty line drawn by Professor Henderson of Melbourne University? 
I am honoured and privileged to rise to speak after the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  in what he stated he expected to be his swan song speech. He is a man who, over the many years he has been here, has won a very real place in the hearts of many honourable members on all sides of this House. I have been here only a relatively short time but I have the utmost respect and affection for him. Also, I agree with much of what be said in his speech, particularly the last point he raised relating to young couples trying to set up a home in the face of giant interest rates. I see this as one of those highly urgent priorities which the present Budget has not tackled directly but which I believe will be tackled by this Government in the immediate future. 
The Budget was undoubtedly a brilliant budget, one of the most brilliant budgets that any of us can remember. Without doubt, it will get the country going again. There are many signs that confidence is returning to the Australian economy. There have been many recent economic indicators of the fact that confidence is returning to the economy. This is no easy matter, for the modern economy is a difficult, complex and and paradoxical instrument. This is true of whichever country in the Western world one looks at. We live at the butt end of the Keynesian era where we have no absolute certainty that the economic tools of the past will serve the purposes of today and even less certainty that they will serve the purposes of tomorrow. In the meantime, before we are visited by the new Keynes, we need to strike out strongly to remedy those ills which we can remedy under the prevailing circumstances. That is precisely what this Budget - which I have advisedly called a brilliant budget - does. It is designed to get the country going again, and to get the country going again in precisely the right direction for our era. I will say more about that shortly. 
When one considers what a finely balanced mechanism the modern economy is, one realises that some of the recent statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  are remarkably inept, illconsidered and gauche. When one considers the psychology of the economy, one realises that some of the recent statements made by the Leader of the Opposition are remarkably unbalanced and academic. I mean academic' in the worst sense, as being unrelated to reality. The most recent gaffe which the Leader of the Opposition made was to make it clear that he believes in revaluation. We have seen the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  who is not in the House at the moment, become very heated about this matter, but what he failed to make clear when he spoke today and in his recently reported statements in the Press was that this matter of revaluation is an issue only because of the remarkably ill-informed, ill-considered, gauche and inept statements on this matter which were made by the Leader of the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition is not a private member of this Parliament. He is not a man of no consequence - or ought not to be a man of no consequence. He is a man who leads an alternative government. He is the Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition. This is the context in which remarks that he makes about matters of high national moment must be considered. I say that this is irrespective of the merits of the argument for revaluation and the merits of the argument for devaluation. 
The remarks of the Leader of the Opposition can only harm the Australian economy because in this way he creates uncertainty and hesitancy in many absolutely crucial sectors of the economy. Also, his remarks are precisely such as could encourage a rush of investment from overseas which would come in to make a quick kill at the expense of the Australian community. There are many ways of tackling capital inflow into this country. As everybody knows, at the moment the Government is considering the policy on overseas ownership of the Australian economy. This is a very important way in which the question of capital inflow can be considered. But for the Leader of the Opposition to make remarks at this time which can create only domestic uncertainty and which can lead only to our being placed in a very awkward position in terms of international monetary movements, is remarkedly ill-considered, inept and gauche. Of course, it is not unusual for him to make statements like that. 1 have heard it said that every 5 months he makes a major gaucherie or gaffe. I am not sure whether it is every 5 months or every 4 months. Sometimes one wonders whether it is not every 5 days. A friend of mine recently suggested that the Leader of the Opposition ought to be known from now on as  Mr Gaffe  Whitlam, but I will not enter into that. 
What troubles me is that matters of high national importance can be treated in this offhand, academic fashion. As 1 have said, the attack on the Leader of the Opposition comes not fundamentally or primarily from this side of the House but from his colleagues opposite. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who is sitting at the table representing the shadow ministry, has told us not to worry about what the Leader of the Opposition has said because he is expressing only personal comments and they are only personal statements. The Opposition Leader's own colleague has said that they in no way commit the Opposition. That would be all right if this were some philosophical debate and if some nice semantic points were involved. But nice semantic points are not at issue here. Vital matters affecting the Australian economy are at issue. What a pity that the Leader of the Opposition can in no way commit the Opposition on vital matters like this. What a pity that on matters of the greatest national importance the Leader of the Opposition can in no way commit the Opposition. I suppose this is really par for the course in both personal and party terms, for not only can the Leader - the public spokesman - of the Party not commit the Opposition in vital areas but what is even more serious is that the elected Labor members of Parliament cannot commit the Labor Party on any policy matter. Their only role in terms of policy is to decide on the precise time when Labor Party policy might be implemented. 
This is called 'Party democracy'. 
We know your views. It is your views which have made it absolutely clear that your Leader does not represent his Party just as your Party in the Parliament does not represent your Party outside it. The Government's position on this issue is absolutely clear. There is no question of any revaluation at the moment. I think this is a good decision and I think it will stick. As I have said, the difficulty faced by honourable members opposite - and 1 feel for them in this - is that their Party is still dominated by the trade unions of Australia. The boss of the Australian trade unions,  Mr R.  J. Hawke, is literally leaving the Leader of the Opposition without a feather to fly with. In a recent television debate  Mr Hawke  even in effect opened Labor's election campaign. This is a right which is normally taken by the Leader of an Opposition or the leader of a Party but when he should have been debating law and order with  Senator Ivor  Greenwood he was in effect opening Labor's campaign for this year's election. The Leader of the Opposition could grow the wings of an angel but he would still only be able to flutter around in the Hawke cage, for the unions dominate the Australian Labor Party today as much as they did 50 years ago. Constitutionally the position remains the same. There has been some talk- 
1 am talking about the whole ramifications of this Budget and the financial framework of the Budget, including the direction of which this Budget talks. I am making some remarks about the sort of situation which would develop if the Australian Budget were created by the alternative government. What sort of Budget would we have? Who would create a Budget for the Opposition? We have heard it said that there are some old tired men around this country. The old tired men in this country are the men of the Opposition. The average age of members of the Ministry is very much less than the average of those in the shadow Ministry. Which party is the old tired party? The Labor Party is the old tired Party in Australia. It is a Party in which the policy making conferences are dominated by union officials. This was all right in the early years of this century when there was a role to play, but these conferences make Labor policy; they make the policy for the elected members of Parliament. 
In terms of philosophy it is the Labor Party which represents an old tired philosophy, for it retains the philosophy of socialism. Some of the clever younger members have tried to redefine it but it stands as a basic objective of the Labor Party, as upright as it stood for many years. The ALP believes in the socialisation of means of production, distribution and exchange. And if you do not like it, then scrub it. This philosophy of socialism is increasingly irrelevant to the real issues of our era, for the philosophy of socialism must include more and more government, more and more regulation and more and more central direction and this inevitably entails less and less emphasis upon the individual, the person, the identity. This latter emphasis is what the Liberal Party stands for. 
The real reason why this Budget is such an exciting document is that it takes new directions in terms of what I call the new liberalism. Let me illustrate my point. The child care policy of this Budget is a very carefully thought out policy. It take- months and months to produce policies in important areas. The child care policy of this Budget entails the proposition that the community will control the child care centres. We are not setting up a costly and elaborate new Commonwealth bureaucracy to do a job which people, where they live and work, can better do that job. This is the philosophy which runs through the whole of the budgetary proposals in regard to education. The notion is that the people should have the education which they will create and that it is not something which can be rained down on them from the skies but something which they create and as far as possible they control. 
Also in this Budget we have an absolutely clear admission of the importance of fighting the war against poverty. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has made clear a number of times that in his recommendat.ons in the field of social welfare he was determined to beat the levels which Professor Henderson has described as th: poverty line. The Budget goes through these areas one by one in an endeavour to ensure that the particular category of pensioner's will be so treated that they will be above the poverty line. But perhaps most important of all this Budget represents a reversal of a trend to more and more government. It is not just a question of a few more dollars in the pocket. It is not just a question of what people will take home after tax. It is not just a question of what extra amounts pensioners will receive, lt is a question of whether we believe in personal decision making. It is a question of whether we believe in people or whether we believe in governments more than in people. It is a question of whether we believe i=.i the individual or the bureaucratic State, central direction, social engineering and all that increasingly irrelevant lot. 
On the other hand in recent times the Opposition has been up to all sorts of different tricks. It has been promising the world. (Quorum formed) I was about to say that the Opposition had been promising the world for months and months. Suddenly, as the 1972 election drew near, members of the Labor Party started renegeing all over the place. They were conscious that their promises would cost hundreds or thousands of millions of dollars extra each year and the Australian taxpayers would have to pay it. Now members of the Opposition are not prepared to tell us whether they are ready to foot the tax bill or what are their policies. In many vital areas they have no discernible policy whatsoever. They are having 10 bob each way. I remind honourable members of Labor's policy on conscription. We used to be told that Labor would abolish conscription. Now the Opposition is saying that if it could not get the volunteers it would be prepared to use conscription. That is what we are led to believe by the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  the Opposition's shadow Minister for Defence and spokesman on defence matters. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, by the honourable member for Grayndler when he claimed that I had said that it was not too late for the Liberal Party to change its leader. In fact, in the television interview I said that in politics anything could happen but that a change of leadership was extraordinarily unlikely. I made it quite clear that there was no case whatsoever for a change of leader. I described the Budget as brilliant and as an illustration of the McMahon style of governing, which was based on hard work, research and real policies. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker  I make no attempt to debate the issue. I leave it to the House to judge the motives of the honourable member for Grayndler who has given us an explanation of how he saw the repotted statements. I simply would point out that the misrepresentation was entailed in the fact that a few words - or maybe a sentence - were taken from an interview, and those few words in isolation completely distorted my meaning in the bulk of the interview. I was merely illustrating the remarks that I had made throughout the interview, which show quite clearly that, deliberate or not, it was an utter distortion. 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science whether he is prepared to participate in a debate organised by the Technical Teachers Association of Victoria? If not, why not? 
It is a shame that the honourable members opposite who have spoken in this debate appear not to have noticed the vast reforms which have been made by the present Government in this vital area of education and in particular tonight that they appear to have ignored the particular features of the Bill which is before us. It is fairly plain that honourable gentlemen opposite are running dead. They are having ten bob each way and are illustrating that they have no policy and only a worn out philosophy in this extremely important area of the Australian system of education. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  made the quite extraordinary claim that we on the Government side are not a bit concerned about government schools. When one notes that this very Bill is largely about assistance to government schools and when one notes that it incorporates proposals which provide new and massive - I stress the words new' and 'massive' - assistance to government schools, the claim of the honourable member for Wills can only be regarded as absurd. He and others rattled on about privileges and about rich schools. They barely seem to have noticed that all the poorest non-government schools want the Liberal-Country Party Government's approach. If the debate were about rich and poor schools and about privileged and under privileged schools, why would the poorest and the least privileged independent schools - there are many of them throughout the country - be insisting that the policy for them and for the Australian people is the policy of the Liberal Government? They know that the talk of the Australian Labor Party about privilege is puff talk. It is talk which is designed largely as a cloak over the policy of the Australian Labor Party which they know can ultimately only destroy their system of education. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  developed a rather new line for him tonight and, in a sense, he started to look a little like some of his more radical or left wing or socialist left colleagues. He again made an extraordinary claim in line with the sort of claims made by the honourable member for Wills and that claim was that the whole structure being built up by the Government is a structure of privilege. If ever this were true, it certainly is not true now, for this Government's approach to education has been to move into many areas to break down problems of inequality and, indeed, positively to discriminate in favour of certain under privileged or less privileged groups in the Australia community. 
The Government migrant education programme is such a programme. More than 700 teachers are teaching English to 25,000 migrant children. The positive discrimination in favour of Aborigines through the provision of special scholarships is another area in this vein. The fact that, for the first time, Commonwealth Government secondary scholarships are now to be awarded on merit and need is again an illustration of the importance of helping those who have least Finally, of course, the new capital grants contained in the present Bill are designed and in fact are already working to aid those schools which have most need. At this very moment old schools in the poorer or industrial areas are being demolished and are being replaced by new schools in pursuance of this Government's policy, this Government being dedicated to the eradication of inequality of opportunity in the Australian education system. 
The Australian Labor Party has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill and 1'n its amendment it talks of an Australian schools commission. We have heard a great deal of talk about an Australian schools commission. Again and again we have heard of the Australian schools commission and again and again we have asked for details of it. If it is substantial enough to be incorporated in a Bill such as this through amendment, as offered by the Opposition, surely it is substantial enough to be given some elaboration in the speeches of honourable gentlemen opposite or, indeed, to be the subject of a major paper by the Opposition. But all our cries for assistance in understanding the nature and the workings of the so-called Australian schools commission have been in vain. 
It has become plain that the Australian schools commission is as insubstantial as fairy floss and even more sticky. It melts in the, mouths of the Labor Party spokesmen opposite, leaving only a sort of pink stain around their lips. It remains as insubstantial as fairy floss because it is a device to hide the deep differences in the Australian Labor Party over education. I think this is important because certain fundamental principles are involved in this Bill and in recent Government announcements on education policy. These principles concern the individual. They concern what I describe as the Australian way of life and they concern the contemporary philosophy of education. One of the basic freedoms which we in the Liberal and Country Parties have always believed in is the freedom of people to have the education of their choice. This freedom is at stake when one considers the approach of the Australian Labor Party to education. We believe that the Australian way of life and the Australian's sense of fair play is at stake when one considers this approach. We believe that when we turn to the philosophy of education as it is debated around Australia at present, certain absolutely cardinal tenets of contemporary educational philosophy are put in jeopardy by the Labor Party's approach to education. 
I instance in particular the notion that authority in education ought to be decentralised. I also instance the notion of community involvement in education and I instance the importance of quality and not just quantity in education. I suggest that in all these areas concerned with the freedom of individuals to choose in the basic traditions of the Australian way of life and in a contemporary philosophy of education, the Australian Labor Party is sadly old fashioned and out of phase with today's thinking. Whereas the Government, on the one, hand, is sensitively and strongly reaching for and finding answers to the very complex problems of education in this country, the ALP on the other hand is confused, irrelevant and old fashioned. Its Leader sits on the fence - a barbed wire fence, admittedly - swaying this way and that as the opportunism of the day dictates. 
The ALP's other spokesmen on education range all over the place. They range from what used to be, at least until tonight, the approach of the honourable member for Fremantle which we have all admired, which was a deep concern with and belief in freedom in education, to the approach of those honourable members opposite who would nationalise, centralise and secularise all Australian education if the Australian people would only let them do it. Perhaps the true colours of the ALP are shown in the fact that the  Chairman  of the Australian Labor Party's Federal Executive Committee on Education is  Mr Bill  Hartley, a rather well known Victorian member of the Labor socialist Left and a member of course of the Federal Executive of the ALP. He is one of the constituents of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown).  Between the biennial Conferences of the Labor Party, the ALP's Federal Executive makes the policy decisions. Pending the next biennial Conference it will control ALP policy. As I have said, the Committee on Education is chaired by a member of the socialist Left and, one might say - I think that the honourable member for Diamond Valley would agree - a notorious member of the socialist Left. It is almost unbelievable that a socialist could be heading Labor's policy committee in such a vital area in 1972. It is time that the people of Australia knew this. 
It is time that the people of Australia knew that, for instance, the Australian Union of Students has condemned the ALP - not the Government - for being more interested in quantity than quality in Australian education. The Australian Union of Students made a number of detailed submissions to the Liberal Commonwealth Government with respect to this year's Budget. The Commonwealth Government took those submissions very seriously and acted so as to fulfil the requests of the Australian Union of Students in almost every area where they were concerned. Indeed, in a number of areas the Government went further than the Australian Union of Students had suggested. The Australian Union of Students has clearly recognised that the Government has made deep and expensive reforms across the whole of Australian education. It has also recognised the inadequacy of the ALP at a time when the people of Australia can least afford such inadequacy in such a once great political Party. The people of Australia are, I think, coming to see that the old approaches are just not good enough in our rapidly changing world. 
It might once have been sensible simply to set up centralised state education structures, to provide basic education free, secular and for all. It might once have been sensible for the decisions to have been made at the centres of State government. Extending that once upon a time thinking to today, it might be sensible to have the decisions centralised in Canberra as in the Australian schools commission. But we say that such an approach is senseless and insensitive today. We in the Liberal Party say that the crying need in Australian education today is for things like parental involvement, community involvement in the setting up and  running of schools and teacher involvement with parents and the local community. We say that these are the areas of concern and these point in a direction from which the ALP appears again, even in 1972, to be running, lt has been well said that war is too important a subject to be left to admirals and generals. Today surely we must say that education is too important a subject to be left to governments, just as war is too important to be left to admirals and generals. 
The Bill before the House makes 2 major moves. Firstly, it provides extra capital grants to the States for both government and independent schools. The grants arc to be made in the States. General guidelines will be set up by a national committee but the actual recommendation with respect to particular capital projects in the schools will be made by expert committees at the State level. These committees will draw up lists of priorities - and this is the point which makes such nonsense of so much that has been said by the Labor Party about what the Government is doing. It obviously grieves the Labor Party that the Government is acting substantially in. these areas. The plain fact is that the poorer schools will get easily the most assistance because their needs will be easily demonstrated. It is plain that the so-called wealthy or privileged schools will not be able to demonstrate the same kind of capital needs as the capital needs of the poorer or. parish schools. 
The second major move in this, legislation which is before the House tonight is to ensure that all independent schools can plan ahead, knowing that they will be supported. They have too often in the past had to live from hand to mouth, uncertain about recurring funds. They surely have every right to keep their fees down so that they may keep their doors open. The ALP approach would be to drive all but the very wealthy out of them and to put these schools beyond the reach of all but the very few. I was unimpressed by the point made about Eton, Harrow and similar schools by the honourable member for Fremantle when he said 'Let them charge what they will'. We say 'Let these schools not charge what they will, let them charge fees which are low enough to permit more and more Australians to attend them'. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  made the extraordinary point that schools which charged fees above $300 would cut themselves out of Government assistance. The Labor Party is saying it will give assistance only to schools which charge no more than $300. Speakers have pointed out again and again that the cost of educating a child in the State sector is $600. Therefore the ALP argument can act only as a dreadful discouragement to the communities which wish to build up good schools, schools, which look to the future, schools which improve their standards and schools which are interested in the quality of the education which they offer. The plain message from the Opposition is: 'Improve your schools and be damned, for you will get no more help from us. Build up to the point where you have to charge more than $300 for the provision of a first class education and cut yourself out of assistance.' Then, of course, they must start again from some point, God knows where. The average parish school must suffer under this system. Its parents and friends association would find that the facilities which it had worked voluntarily to provide, be it a teacher or a classroom, could put it beyond the means test level set by the Government. In other words, the harder they worked the less Government help they got. No government school parents and citizens group faces that prospect. They can work hard for extra in the certain prospect that their extra effort will be rewarded. 
The Australian Labor Party is saying: We are not going to reward the extra effort of parents and citizens groups'. It seems to me to be a tragedy that in 1972 the Labor Party is pursuing a course designed to divide the community and to divide one group of school children from another by this attack on the so-called rich schools. The Labor Party's attack is not on wealthy parents but on wealthy schools. If the attack had been on wealthy parents the Labor Party would have had to include wealthy parents who send their children to government schools. I think I heard an interjection to the effect that tax can look after wealthy parents. That is right. That is precisely what we are saying. We say: Let the tax system look after the wealthy parents and do whatever equalisation is necessary at that level, but let us not equalise down Australian education. Let us make education of their choice available and free to all Australians. 
Mir REYNOLDS (Barton) (10.52) - It would take all of my speech if I were to check on ali of the erroneous statements made by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  about Australian Labor Party policy and what the attitude of the various sectional groups in the community is towards the Government's performance in education. I should imagine that over the next few weeks until the election is held the honourable member along with other Government supporters will run into a lot of hostile meetings about the Government's performance in education. What the Australian Union of Students has to say about the Government's deficiencies in respect of tertiary education would fill a book by itself. As a matter of fact, the legislation before us is in many ways a vast repudiation of many of the past policies of the Government. But the Government still has retained many of the grossest inequalities. 
The honourable member for Chisholm referred to secondary scholarships. There is, in part, a repudiation of the previous policy dating from about 1965. Even now - and I hope that I will have time to demonstrate, this later - the policy that the Government has adopted is quite inequitable. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his second reading speech mentioned that the Government would grant finance on the basis of need. The honourable member for Chisholm, on behalf of the Government, takes credit for imposing a needs basis after all the years that the Labor Party has been demanding this old-fashioned policy. But this still does not go to the very important matter of dealing with recurrent grants. The honourable member talked about massive assistance to schools. He said that $167m would be spread among government schools in the 6 States over a period of 5 years. In saying this he assumed that the Government would still be in office. Measure that against the recommendation of the nationwide survey of education needs, which asked not for $167m but for SI, 443m for State schools alone and another $240m, if I remember correctly, for non-State schools. Admittedly there has been some increase in grants to the States under the Commonwealth-State financial arrangements. But there has been no indication whatsoever of the extent to which these funds go towards meeting the need mentioned in the nationwide survey. 
I ask the Acting Minister for Health: Is it a fact that while- 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. What is the present state of the employment market? Does the Minister expect future improvements? Do the latest figures establish that the Government's action to remedy unemployment has been correct? 
I support the Bill and oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. The amendment strikes at the heart of what is contained in the Bill, which is precisely the sort of thing which all interested parties in the community have been looking for from this Government - that is, an authority which can advise governments in Australia on policy. It is not to the point to say that this investigating and advisory body will not have the authority to implement positive policies, because governments must implement positive policies in the extraordinarily broad areas that come within the ambit of this Bill. It has been said by various commentators and by honourable members opposite that this is a last minute panic measure, that it has been hastily introduced, that it is a sort of rabbit drawn out of the hat at the last minute and that the Government has done it only because the Australian Labor Party has been talking about it. The fact that the Labor Party has been talking about it is not any reason why we should not do it, if the proposal commends itself and if the Government can do it better than Labor could. 
The simple fact is that the policy which Ls enshrined in this authority is not something which has been dreamed up at the last minute. It is not a policy which was plucked out of the air in response to moves opposite, gallup polls, comments in the Press or anything else. One cannot simply pluck policies like this out of the air. The policy is based on a great deal of hard work, research, analysis and planning. The formal processes - I stress that - which led to this Bill started well back in 1971, every bit of 12 months ago and more. A Liberal Party committee was formed in 1971 to inquire into urban affairs. This was one of a number of new committees which had been formed in the Liberal Party to consider the great issues which confront the Australian people. Symbolic of those committees was the national goals committee chaired by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  So the formal processes began in the Liberal Party, and may well have begun also in the Australian Country Party, at that time many months ago. 
Many months ago the Government started working out the plans which have led to the proposed authority and its implementation. There is no question that a great deal of thought has been given to what is being done. But. whatever the timing, the right start has been made in an area which entails the great human issues of our times, for this authority will ultimately be concerned with how the Australian people shall live and how they shall live together in communities. At Federation - only 70-odd years ago - half the Australian population lived in rural areas. lt is obvious that most people then lived in small communities. A characteristic of a small community, particularly in those days, was that it tended to govern itself. It was not greatly inhibited by remote, distant central government; it went about its own life and work and retained a sense of community. In that type of community there is more community between home and work and between community organisation and government. In that type of community which existed and which still exists in some parts of Australia, the work of the head of the house was generally seen to be crucial to the survival of the family. What the father did mattered to the family and the family and the community hung together. They knew they would hang separately otherwise. 
People in that type of community knew that they had a place in life and that they belonged. By and large sons followed their fathers and daughters followed their mothers in an almost predestined pattern. There was not the glittering array of occupational choices which apparently is available to young people today. Nor was there the agonising indecision of so many young people today who came to feel that there is something illusory about the apparent abundance of occupational choices in the great cities. The old parental cry 'You've never had it so good' is sadly hollow or hardly understood by many young people today. TI &lt;? arc nol sure that their work will matter to them and they are not sure, which is more important in the terms of the Bill before the House, that they will matter to their community. 
The pace of change and mobility in mass cities and mass organisations in the mass cities have exacerbated the problems of the home, work, the community and government in contemporary society, lt is not without point that our democratic forms of organisation grew in quite different soil to that which exists today. They grew in societies which were largely rural, where communities were small and well based and which knew where they were going. But the basic social and economic structures of communities have altered almost beyond belief and the democratic forms of government have sometimes been slow to respond. The proposed authority is a major response to these trends. There is a tendency in our sort of communities for government to grow away from the people and the modern city so often lacks a sense of community. Of course, the modern contemporary city is not all bad. The great contemporary city has a sense of excitement, diversity and a sense of the thrust of life. 
And most people want to live there with part of themselves. Even the anonymity of the mass city can seem to be a desirable feature for some people. The arts and culture can thrive in the shadows of the giant city. These sorts of cities can create skills and human achievements which we can only wonder at. But at the same time these cities which are acting as great magnets to more of our populations can also create an increase in crime, terrorism, alienation, loneliness, dishonesty and fear. The story which still has nol been told about this new urban and regional authority is that it relates not just to decentralisation but also to the development and the redevelopment of our great cities. This policy brings the Commonwealth for the first time in a direct way into the crucial area of urban and suburban redevelopment to create communities rather than what can sometimes just be suburban sprawls. 
As I suggested in my opening remarks, this policy depends upon expert advice being given to governments so that they can act. This is why the Opposition's amendment is so unwise for who is to say just where this new authority or that new authority or the department which the Opposition would create would finally end up in terms of positive government action? This action locates the power of decision at the dead centre of government, with the 
Prime Minister and Premiers, on the best sort of advice which they can get in the whole community. The policy also envisages a radical new policy for the purchase of land by governments. This would seem to me to be crucial for the concept of regional growth centres and the submetropolitan centres around the great cities. The proposition is not that the Commonwealth should go helter skelter into the land business full scale but it relies on the notion that it would be important for Governments to be prepared to purchase land suddenly in an area which has been utterly secretly chosen for development without the fanfare and fuss which could lead to a vast escalation of costs for government and hence for the community. It is clear that it is important for government resources to be pinpointed in a small number of regional growth centres. We have come to the realisation through what has been done around the world and not just by various governments in Australia that to spread the butter too thinly across the bread will not work. It is necessary to conceive of a small number of cities which will have to work and which through the provision of the amenities of life, which people rightly demand, can act for themselves as magnets for population. I stress that this is not a proposition that people should be directed to regional growth centres or indeed to sub-metropolitan centres. 
The whole scheme envisages new forms of co-operation on advice between State and Federal governments. Clearly the role of local government is of crucial importance in the process. There is no thought that this move will lead to a swamping out of local government and the creative role which it can play in the developmental process particularly in the redevelopment of urban and suburban communities which is inherent in this Bill. For all those reasons I have the greatest pleasure in supporting this Bill. I believe that it is a profound development in Commonwealth initiative in areas which are absolutely crucial to the nature and the quality of life of every Australian. 
One is loathe to answer the Opposition's latest absurdities about doctors and the health scheme. The way in which the Australian* Labor Party attacks doctors is vicious, unfortunate and in extremely poor taste, but not as callous and unfortunate as the Labor Party's disregard for the freedoms and rights of patients in its obsession with controls and commissions. The real question is: Why do we have a health insurance scheme as part of our Australian health scheme? The answer is basic and simple. It is to spread the burden of costs without sacrificing the power and freedom of the patient to receive first class medical and health care. 
The Government in recent years has been driven by the desire to see that sickness does not cripple people while at the same time ensuring that the community is not crippled with the sort of medical care that would itself make people sick. So the health insurance scheme has been built up and modified, and will be further modified as research and new needs arise. So the pensioner medical service scheme has been introduced and the subsidised insurance scheme has been created to pay the health insurance costs of low income families. The whole question of contemporary health and medical care is a complex, vexed and fascinating one. Hilaire Belloc was not far from the truth when he said: 
Of old when folk lay sick and sorely tried, The doctors gave them physic and they died. But here's a happier age for now we know, Both how to make men sick and keep them so. 
Through the mazes of modern medicine the Government's prime concern has been for people, for patients. Certainly the tremendous advances which have been made in the Government's health scheme have been costly. But the advances have not been made at the cost of the patient's power and freedom to receive the good medical care of his choice. 
While I totally reject the ALP's recently restated ultimate aim of socialisation for Australia. I would accept that some of its more particular policies have not been entirely unattractive, though it has, of course, vastly and cynically overdone the promises by jumping on every bandwagon which has rolled by. But the Opposition's health scheme, one of its particular policies, does sow the seed of disaster for patients. Under Labor's scheme the doctor will be able to choose whether to charge the patient for treatment or whether to send the bill to the Government. The doctor could charge the Government 85 per cent of the fee for the service rendered and choose to forgo the other 15 per cent as being equivalent to the normal costs of collection and such like. The Labor Party's health policy would put Australia well on the road to nationalised health which has produced such misery for so many in Britain. This Labor policy would sweep away the patient's power to purchase humane and dedicated medical care. This Labor policy would herd people into doctors' surgeries like cattle into the cattle yard. This Labor policy would lead to medical treatment by the egg timer, as was so often the case under the nationalised health scheme in Britain. 
Only the other day a young doctor of my acquaintance, who has practised for a number of years in Britain and in Australia, told me that only 2 of the 30 surgeries in which he had worked for some weeks or more over the last few years in Britain were up to the standard of all of the Australian surgeries in which he had worked. The tragedy of the nationalised scheme is that the rights, the freedoms and the humanity of patients are sacrificed to suit the inhuman tidiness of the doctrinaire and bureaucratic mind. Of course, Labor will say that the fee relationship between the doctor and the patient does not necessarily disappear in its scheme because doctors could still charge the patients direct instead of charging the Government. But knowing that they can let the Government pay, how many patients will be far-sighted enough to insist on promptly paying the doctor instead of letting the Government carry the tab? Once the patient no longer pays the doctor he will no longer be able to call the tune. So Labor would destroy the fee relationship and so destroy the power of the patient over his doctor and his health scheme. 
The Labor Party has been trying to have 10 bob each way on this. One day the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  talks of Labor's first major act of nationalisation in the health field and then on another day he denies that Labor will nationalise anything, or he denies tha: it will nationalise anything much. He even goes on to suggest that there is not enough power under the Australian Constitution for Labor to nationalise when he himself has said it would be wrong for Labor to hide behind the Constitution and pretend that it cannot socialise, nationalise or do what it wants. The Leader of the Opposition has recognised - and he said as much - that where section 92 of the Constitution is the charter of private enterprise section 96 is the charter of public enterprise. The simple fact is that section 96 would enable a Labor government to do by the back door what it cannot do by the front door under the Constitution, by making grants to the States. This could be done in any area. In the health area, which we are talking about today, by making grants to the States on condition that the States effectively nationalised surgeries, health centres, doctors and the lot, a Labor government could legally, constitutionally and fully nationalise every doctor's surgery and hospital in Australia. The Chief Justice of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Winneke, has made this absolutely plain. In an oration which was reported in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' on 1 8th December 1965, when talking about the great power which the Commonwealth has under section 96 of the Constitution, he said: 
Those who may be tempted to regard all this as a mere remote matter of public finance would do well to reflect that the precisely same mechanism could be applied to private affairs. To take an example closer to home, let it be supposed that it became the policy of some Commonwealth Government. With a majority in both Houses, to nationalise medical services. Although the Commonwealth has no power to legislate for medical services, can it be doubted that the attachment of a positive condition to the tax reimbursement grant, making it payable only to States which exercised their legislative power to that end, would not be effective to achieve the desired result? 
Ultimately, this comes down to a basic Australian freedom and right - the freedom to choose. What matters more to Australians than just about any other question is the freedom to choose a doctor, the freedom to choose first class medical care, the freedom to choose a health fund and the freedom to choose in respect of so many matters in related fields which are close to the hearts of the Australian people. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is an effective parliamentary question time an important element in the achievement of open government? Will the Prime Minister allow the length of question time to be doubled in order to provide that openness of government which he promised to the Australian people? 
If, as the Prime Minister has said, the Attorney-General did fail in his duty to inform him of Yugoslavia's execution of Australian citizens, what action does he intend to take with respect to  Senator Murphy? 
As the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  said, there are 3 Bills before the House - the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill, the States Grants (Universities) Bill and the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2). I want to make it quite clear at the outset that the Opposition supports all these Bills but will move an amendment to one Bill only in the Committee stage. It is not an amendment which in any way goes to the substanceof the Bill but only to some rather important matters of form relating to future policy in the areas covered by the Bill. These Bills represent good moves and, we believe, a continuation and a natural extension of previous Liberal-Country Party governments' concern for universities and colleges of advanced education. I congratulate the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  for bringing them in so swiftly. 
Two of the Bills are concerned to increase the number of qualified social workers in Australia. This is to be done by making grants of $240,000 to the University of Melbourne, $75,000 to the University of Sydney and $40,000 to the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. The grants are to be used to increase the number of social workers being trained at those institutions. This is timely because social work training has been somewhat frozen in recent years, largely because social work is a relative newcomer to university and college of advanced education courses and was a course not much in demand until the last 10 years. Inasmuch as it was not much in demand until the last 10 years it was rather severely frozen within the universities. The departments of social work were, as it were, half way to a position of full growth when they were, in effect, frozen. I understand that the increased expenditure provided in this Bill will enable the Department of Social Work at the University of Melbourne to increase its output of students by 25 per cent. This will enable the department to undertake the sort of course reorganisation which will give this course the features of a good university course and enable it to provide the full facilities which are. needed by the students of social work in the contemporary situation. 
There is, of course, a very high demand for courses of social work by students entering universities and it is quite fascinating that the score which students have to achieve to enter a social work course at the University of Melbourne is the highest required by any faculty or department. It is higher even than the famous medical score. In 1973 a student has had to have a score of at least 317 out of a possible 400 to gain admission. This is somewhat higher than for medicine and quite significantly higher than for other major courses within the university context. There is a tremendous demand for what have been very scarce places. In the University of Melbourne Social Work Department, of 560 students who have social work as first choice, only 125, even with the extensions in the Bill, could be selected. 
A very encouraging feature of the applicants for social work in the University of 
Melbourne - and I trust that this would be so in other cases - is that a very significant and growing proportion are graduates from other faculties. They have done a first course. In the case of the Social Work Department of the University of Melbourne the extra money is being used to take in these graduates. Another pleasing feature of the growth of social work is that more males are now taking the course. This year at the University of Melbourne males comprise about 30 per cent of the total intake. It is a steadily rising figure- It is important because in many areas of contemporary social work it is valuable to have male social workers as well as female social workers. 
One of the problems of primary attention that is often pointed out today by educators is that there are not enough male teachers with whom students can identify. This could equally be said about the social work profession. The increase in graduates in social work will enable the staff of social welfare departments more effectively to regionalise their activities, as in most States they are presently attempting to do. It will also enable the increasing demand by local government bodies for highly trained social workers better to be met. Anyone involved in local government or government activities must applaud that feature. 
I believe that there is within schools a growing need for the extra skills which qualified social workers can introduce. It is also encouraging that of the graduates who are applying for social work at the University of Melbourne, a good many are qualified teachers who are taking social work as their second qualification in addition to their basic teacher qualification. They could provide an increasing source of manpower, particularly for schools in difficult areas with a high migrant population and certain social problems which need urgent attention. The increase provided for in the Bill is most welcome also in that field- I trust that the increase will also play an important role in the development of community health services and the like - choose whatever label you wish to describe them - with particular reference to social and preventive aspects of community medical care. 
It seems to me that much of the present confusion and concern about the state of Australia's abortion law would not arise if these types of highly trained and qualified people were available locally to the various counselling services, community health services and all sorts of community care services at the local level. There they could be readily accessible to individual members of the community and we would not be faced with nearly the difficulty and sometimes frenzy that we presently face. The Opposition supports the Bill with great pleasure. We regard the provision of extra social workers as a matter of urgency. 
We also support the implementation of the recommendation of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education that the Government should provide an unmatched grant of $5m for libraries in colleges of advanced education during the 1973-75 triennium. If the colleges of advanced education are to fulfil the absolutely crucial role in society which we desire them to have, their library facilities must be adequate to keep them in touch with all the important and relevant areas of scholarship and research. We as members of Parliament will have to get used to the idea of the rapidly escalating cost of effective modern libraries. Their problems and possibilities are enormous in these days of the information explosion. 
I come now to the grants for needy students in universities and colleges of advanced education. We also support these grants and look forward keenly and anxiously to a long term policy of aid for needy students which will cope with the need where it really exists. lt was odd, a little worrying, and I imagine slightly out of character, for a Labor Government as a first act to rush in to abolish university fees. I stress that it is odd as a first act. I believe that it will be a tragedy if this largesse prevents the Labor Government and universities from realistically tackling the problems of student poverty and failure. The universities' heyday of almost infinite expansion vis-a-vis other sections of the community is well and truly over and the question of priorities is most pressing. Surely it is of the highest priority to ensure that the right students are being assisted and that students are getting the type of assistance that they really need. We might say that students need what they need when they need it, as many of us do. 
As a matter of priority it seems to me to be far more important for the sake of Australia to ensure that those students who have the most potential receive real assistance when they need it than to encourage with scholarships students who will benefit only marginally themselves or the country by undertaking a particular course of study. In utilising limited resources we need to be much more ready to put in that stitch in time which can save nine. An investment today of a comparatively small amount of money - a few hundred dollars here or there - could save vast expenditure, perhaps thousands of dollars. 
The Commonwealth living allowances scheme has clearly helped many needy students but it has suffered from certain defects. The means test on parental income has, I believe, been unrealistically low. The present maximum living allowance is $700 per annum for students living at home and $1,100 per annum for students living away from home. I understand that the allowance cuts out when the annual family income, after concessions for dependent children, reaches $2,800. The living allowance is far too low. I understand from university authorities that students with the most modest habits, both of study and in society, would need at least $1,600 to $1,800 annually as a bare minimum to live on. That assessment is based on the notion that they would attend the theatre only once in a couple of months. 
Further, it is quite unrealistic to expect a student to have lived independently of his or her parents for 3 years before being able in general to qualify for a living away from home allowance. I know that there have been occasional exceptions, but I am talking about the basic principle here. The student who is thrown out of home or who feels forced, for what would seem to him or her always to be good reasons, to leave home will often be precisely the student in most need, both financially and psychologically. Yet the present living allowance is not really geared to coping with that situation. 
One of the pleasant features of the present Bill is that it does provide for assistance to needy students in general enough terms for a student like that to receive the needed help. A student from a family earning a fair income who suddenly feels compelled to leave home is often faced with enormous psychological problems as well as financial hardship because pride will prevent the acceptance' of any allowance from home. Indeed, the matter might be determined at home without pride even entering into it. This student, who might be a very able student and who, at the point of most need under the present scholarship scheme, does not receive assistance, is surely the sort of student whom the universities would want to assist when they are able to testify as to the validity of a claim after investigation of the evidence. 
I believe that the present Bill has the great virtue of allowing a university itself the maximum discretion in deciding how to help needy students. I would like to see the approach of this Bill built more into the Commonwealth living allowance schemes of the future, however they might shape up when the Labor Government does move to abolish university fees. In general, I believe that a lot more respect ought to be paid to informed university teachers and university authorities rather than the rigid application of over-niggardly rules, as they are on many occasions, for the point surely is that the universities will know best whether an individual student is worth a bit of extra expenditure. The universities will best know whether an extra expenditure of SI 00 or $200 in a final term might rescue from failure a student on whom hundreds or even thousands of dollars have been already spent in one way or another. 
Student poverty and failure do operate in a pretty tight but vicious circle. Initial poverty can beget failure; failure can beget poverty. Some aspects of the present legislation do not help in this begetting of still deeper failure. It may well have been indeed a false as well as a sad economy to take scholarship benefits and allowances away after a little failure, as the scholarship schemes have done. Obviously we are not going into the business of subsidising failure as such. That would be a wholly illegitimate aim, but we must be sure about the economy involved in the early withdrawal of benefits on the basis of rather rigid rules. 
I would like to know, for instance, what the Labor Government's attitude will be towards those students who go into universities, who do not have to face fee bills and may or may not receive extra allowances, if they fail, say, one or two subjects in their first year. Will the curtain come down on them and will they then have to pay a certain amount towards their studies for the next year and possibly then be driven out to a part-time job and so be faced with the sort of social and study sit uation which will beget further failure? I think it of great importance for questions like this to be considered in the broad context of aid to all students and in particular to needy students. At the moment the very delay involved in the sheer administration of benefits can create real hardships for the students who are suddenly thrown into need. In short, I hope that the universities and the Department of Education will be able to work more closely together. 
There is a temptation to act out of a counsel of fear in this sort of matter. I think that we must resist the temptation to act out of a counsel of fear about the expenditure of Government money in this area because to act in such a way could prove to be a false economy. We do need to know a lot more about student need and its relationship to performance in universities and in colleges of advanced education. There have been isolated reports from time to time in various universities. Nearly all of them are out of date at present. One of the features of the administration of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is, I understand, that he has asked his Department to look into these matters. I think it is of great importance that they be looked into because, pending the dissolution of the whole fee paying system in universities, we must be ready with legitimate schemes for student assistance. 
I think few people doubt that financial hardship is at least a significant cause of student failure. We do not know precisely how to weigh this as one of the causes. The Metropolitan Universities Admission Centre in Sydney in 1972 found that 12 per cent of those who rejected university places in 1972 did so for financial reasons. The actual figure may be greater or smaller than was signified in that study. Hie Australian Union of Students has looked at the matter. It surveyed 1,797 Victorian tertiary students over the 1971-72 vacation period. The survey showed that 10 per cent of the students said that they were unable to earn sufficient money in the period to enable them to continue their studies, that 3 per cent did not re-enrol, that 4 per cent had to take part-time jobs and that 1 per cent had to switch to part-time courses. I understand that the survey showed that the hardest hit were those students whose fathers were tradesmen or in semi-skilled or unskilled occupations - precisely those who in most cases need the most help and understanding in the university context. There was also the excellent study by  Mr 0'Hearn  of the Melbourne University Faculty of Arts which helped so much to give us a humane understanding of the relationship between student failure and poverty. 
There have of course been in all universities - 1 am not so familiar with colleges of advanced education - some schemes in addition to the Commonwealth scholarship and living allowance schemes to aid needy students. The most common form of assistance has been some form of student loan scheme, although some universities, particularly in South Australia, had a fee concession scheme. The deferment of tuition fees altogether has been an uncommon form of aid. The whole question of student loans as a form of assistance to needy students has been investigated very closely indeed by the previous Minister for Education and Science, I believe that a Minister for Education and Science some years ago,  Mr Fairbairn,  also looked at this matter. I know that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser undertook detailed studies and discussed the situation with banks as well as university authorities. I understand that he had agreement in principle from all interested parties that some sort of student loan scheme was a feasible proposition. 
There are m;my who believe that, inasmuch as resources are now very hard to come by in the field of education, particularly higher education, it is quite legitimate to ask those who are receiving such significant benefits from society to have a hand themselves in, as it were, helping themselves. So the notion of student loan schemes for even quite significant sums which was abhorrent some years ago is, in the circumstances facing the universities today, not nearly so abhorrent to students. 1 think there is a widespread belief in the community itself that this is a most legitimate and useful way of extending assistance to students. The amount available for loan in the various universities has varied widely as between universities and, in fairness to the various universities, 1 think it will be necessary for the Minister and his officers to look at the existing loan schemes. Easily the best is in my old university - the Melbourne University. Some universities have very modest student loan schemes. I am not certain of the basis of the allocation to universities in the present Bill though I suspect it is some sort of per capita basis. In that case, some universities which are already doing quite well for their students in special need will be in easy street this year in this area but other universities will not do nearly so well under the present Bill. I think that point needs to be looked at by the Minister. 
The fact of the matter is that the universities have already spent most of the money involved in this Bill. However this is not why the Opposition is supporting the Bill. Indeed it would not be a good reason to support it. We are supporting the Bill for much better reasons. But 1 think it is important for us io know how the universities have fared in expending the money this year. This year one of the problems with the scheme which will be largely unavoidable because of the newness of the Government is that the assistance was not early enough to help those who were considering whether they would start a university course this year. As has been shown in some of the earlier figures presented, some people are deterred no doubt at the point of entry, so this scheme will help those who are already attending university. There is also the question which is unresolved in what the Minister has said so far as to his future intentions in this area. I expect that a lot of this money will have been spent on grants and not on loans and, therefore, there will be no return to the universities. This is the basic reason why. in the Committee stage, the Opposition will  he  hoping to amend the Bill so that it will call for an accountability from the universities to the Australian Commission on Advanced Education and the Australian Universities Commission and so enable this highly important matter to be closely investigated by this House, as well as by the Minister for Education, before any unfortunate steps might be taken with respect to the long haul in this crucial problem. 
The question of needy students is complex. It shades into various issues of student finance, such as the adequacy of living allowances under Commonwealth scholarships; whether assistance should be given solely on the basis of merit or on the basis of need; and whether all students should receive some grants. The availability of vacation employment, students dropping out for non-financial reasons and the concept of self help are also involved. There are new ways of looking at this question. The previous Government had started looking at some of these matters and the Minister for Education has taken useful and early action. 1 congratulate him and I took forward to his close attention to many of the matters which I have discussed tonight. 
 I have an amendment to clause 4 which in part reads: 
The financial assistance by way of payment of an amount to a State under sub-section (1) is granted on the condition that the State will ensure that the amount is applied towards assisting students in need. 
I move: 
Omit 'the State will ensure that the amount is applied towards assisting students in need', substitute the following paragraphs: 
the State will ensure that the amount is applied towards assisting students in need; and 
the State will make available annually to the Commission statistics and information upon the following: 
the total amount provided by way of each grant, loan, or by, any other means; 
the number of students assisted by way of grant, loan, or  by any other means; 
the number of applications for assistance received, and the number rejected; 
the academic progress of students assisted by way of grant, loan, or by any other means; 
the average interest rates, if any, charged upon any loans made during the reporting period; 
the amount of repayments due under the conditions of any loan, and the amount of repayments actually made during the reporting period; and 
the sufficiency of any grant for providing assistance to students in need'. 
I said in my remarks in the second reading debate on this Bill that this amendment, which 
I foreshadowed, would not go to the whole substance of the Bill. The aim of the amendment is not to interfere with the initiative of the universities in making grants or loans to students during this year. Indeed the universities and the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education have already, in most cases, made grants or loans to students. What we seek to achieve with this amendment is information that will be in the hands of those in the college of advanced education and in the universities who advise the Government. I extend my remarks to cover the amendment which will be moved to the States Grants (Universities) Bill so that it will not be necessary to take up the time of the House by repeating my argument. 
The aim of this amendment is to provide the Government with information which will enable it to make future policy decisions in the whole area of student assistance, that is to say in the area of assistance  to  students under the old scholarship scheme, which obviously will be radically revised when fees are abolished, and also any other additional scheme which might continue and which is similar to the present scheme involving one-shot grants to needy students. It has been suggested by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  that this will be a one-shot scheme because so much will change. I think the implication was that the need for assistance may well not be there when fees are abolished and other changes are made. Precisely, our point is this: We want to ensure that needy students are in fact really assisted by the Government. We do not for a moment accept the assumption that the abolition of fees will get to the nub of the problem of assisting needy students. We believe therefore that the Government has a high responsibility to develop a long term policy consequent on its changes and, of course, in the light of needs which many of us perceive without some of the changes which the Government is introducing anyway. So this is a matter which is of particular importance at the moment; it is a matter which, of course, has a more general importance in any grant of money to any kind of institution by any government in this country. 
I think that all of us in this chamber would accept the proposition that there ought to be accountability for the expenditure of public moneys. Some honourable members may say that the 2 Bills involve only a mere $3m. But, if you like, this is the thin edge of the wedge. A great deal of money will be expended in the future on aid to needy students just as a great deal has been expended in the past. So we want to see accountability. We ask for no interference in the affairs of the institutions. Indeed, the whole thrust of our thinking during the second reading stage of these Bills was that we would want to encourage more initiative at the university and college level and less in the way of ham fisted action or distantly administered bureaucratic rules and regulations. I do not wish to delay the Committee any longer because there are many other matters to come before us. I have moved an amendment to clause 4 of this Bill and I will move a similar amendment to the States Grants (Universities) Bill shortly. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
I propose to move an amendment to clause 3 which reads: 
After section 11 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 11a. (1) In relation to each University specified in the Eighth Schedule there is payable, in the year that commenced on 1st January 1973, to the State in which the University is situated, for the purpose of financial assistance, the amount specified in the second column of the Eighth Schedule opposite to the name of that University. 
The financial assistance to a State by way of payment of an amount under this section in relation to a University is granted on the conditions that - 
the State will, without undue delay, pay that amount to the University; and 
the State will ensure that the amount so paid to the University is applied by the University towards assisting students in need. 
In this section, a "student" means a student enrolled at a University specified in the Eighth Schedule who is determined by that University to be experiencing hardship by reason of his financial circumstances.'. 
I move: 
In clause 3, proposed section 11a, at the end of sub-section (2) add the following paragraph: 
the State will, as a condition of the payment to the university, require the university to report annually to the Australian Universities Commission upon the following: 
the total amount provided by way of each grant, loan, or by any other means; 
the number of students assisted by way of grant, loan, or by any other means; 
the number of applications for assistance received, and the number rejected; 
the academic progress of students assisted by way of grant, loan, or by any other means; 
the average interest rates, if any, charged upon any loans made during the reporting period; 
the amount of repayments due under the conditions of any loan, and the amount of repayments actually made during the reporting period; and 
the sufficiency of any grant made to the university for providing assistance to students in need.'. 
The arguments supporting this amendment have been made in substance in the debate on the previous Bill. We will not press the issue at this stage; we do not wish to prolong the argument. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The Opposition wishes to support this Bill. Commencing in 1965, the Liberal-Country Party Government introduced a scheme for the provision of unmatched grants to the States of $10m per annum for building and equipping technical colleges. In 1971 the Government increased the annual unmatched grant to $12m for each of the years ending 30th June 1972, 1973 and 1974. This was followed at the end of last year in the Liberal Prime Minister's policy speech with a promise to increase the grant for the period ending 30th June 1974 to not less than $20m per annum which would have made a total of $48m available by way of unmatched grants to the States for building and equipping technical colleges during the present triennium. That suggests that the amount might have been marginally greater than that proposed in the Bill. But the Opposition supports the Bill. We are pleased that the Minister has acted at this stage. 
Will the Minister for Social Security consider removing the 16-year-old qualifying age with respect to invalid pensions in order to provide relief for families who hear the immense physical, psychological and financial burdens of caring for their severely handicapped or retarded children at home? 
 Now the Hopewell caper thickens. Not only were the Dividend Fund shareholders who sold out closely associated with  Mr Dyason,  but the very debt for which other Dividend Fund shareholders are being chased is also associated with  Mr Dyason.  The Dyason interests are massive shareholders in the Increment Fund which will reap the reward of the liquidation as it is owed money by Dividend Fund. Public shareholders invest in an unlimited liability mutual fund Dividend Fund Incorporated. Dividend Fund goes broke, owing a substantial amount to Increment Fund and its shareholders. Because Dividend Fund has an unlimited liability structure, its shareholders will be called on to cover its deficiency, and in effect to help cover the debt to Increment Fund. Some Dividend Fund shareholders close to the managers of the whole messy business arrange a $2 companystooge to save them from the call. 
And while they miss out on having to meet the unlimited liability debts of Dividend Fund, they continue to reap the benefits of payments by others. 
It is a clear case of innocent victims of a corporate failure being sucked dry to meet the losses of the guilty. Incredibly, some of the innocents money in payment of the debt will actually be channelled back to those associated with the culpable management. The tragedy of Dividend Fund is that most of the shareholders are older people who had sought a safe investment for their lifetime savings. They were not shrewd speculations, gamblers or opportunists. They are simple, thrifty people who were anxious to provide for their own financial well-being. They are now being hounded to meet the unlimited liability debts of Dividend Fund, and to find more money to cover extra losses. The company liquidator is now pursuing these investors for their money, and unless something is done they will be forced to pay up. 
Apart from the obvious iniquities of this devilish mix-up, there is another important consideration. The liquidator involved, a Melbourne accountant,  Mr D.  O. Oldfield from the firm of Hornemann, Macaw and Oldfield, appears to be in a most difficult position. He is not only the liquidator of some of the Garretty group companies. He was also asked by the former Garretty director,  Mr Dyason  who also happens to be his client, to liquidate Dyason Investments Pty Ltd. This company was involved with the Hopewell manoeuvre. So  Mr Oldfield  is also a liquidator of a company which is involved with the Dyason family's attempts to avoid responsibility for the debts while reaping the results of the liquidator's debt collection. The risk of conflict appears devastating. Because of the problems of finding an equitable solution to this disaster, because of the problems of hardship on innocent victims of sharp company practice, and because of the conflicts and the unprecedented nature of this situation, I appeal to the Victorian Government. This liquidation should be stopped. Before it proceeds, every legal means should be explored to prevent the gross iniquity of having innocent victims of a company failure contributing to the wealth of the people who helped cause the failure. If the law allows this, then so much the worse for the law. In the name of justice for decent, average Australians,a solution must be found. 
Finally we must examine more closely than  ever  the need for new national controls on the securities industry. The Victorian Government is trying to investigate and keep tabs on company criminals, but it is understaffed and restricted by the national nature of many of the crimes involved. The Dividend Fund case and the Hopewell caper also bring out some important questions for future law in the securities area. (Extension of time granted). 
Firstly, is there sufficient control of non-listed public companies and mutual funds such as Dividend Funds and, with no stock market supervision or interest in the affairs of these companies, is there adequate supervisory machinery geared to protecting investors involved? Secondly, are the affairs of mutual funds and unlisted public companies given sufficient attention in the finance media and would it be reasonable to insist that these companies advertise in the media their annual and half year profit reports? Thirdly, is the law of defamation too strict in Australia to allow fair reporting of the affairs of these companies? The fact that I must raise these matters under parliamentary privilege, I think, indicates that this may be the case. A vigilant and critical Press has been proved a salutary force against corporate and other criminals in many places. Fourthly, do the provisions of the various State Companies Acts provide for sufficient supervision of such people as liquidators, receivers and other official company managers? These are important questions for the future. Scandals such as the Garretty one must be nipped in the bud before they break the hearts and plunder the pockets of innocent average Australians. 
I refer to the Treasurer's recent announcement that he intends to alter the definition of income so as to include as taxable income any capital gain that is realised in the course of 12 months. Can the Treasurer assure the House that the genuine domestic residences of taxpayers will be excluded from his new scheme? Also, why is the Treasurer not prepared to allow losses to be offset against gains? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will 135 positions in the Department of Transport be transferred from Melbourne to Canberra at the end of 1973 and 200 positions at the end of 1974? 
If so, have the necessary arrangements been made to accommodate properly officers and their families from the date of transfer? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has he approved a substantial increase in the size and quality of living accommodation, ancillary equipment and services to be provided for each member of the Armed Forces stationed in Australia. 
If so, did the Treasury make any assessment of the costs involved and the means by which funds would be provided; if not, what steps did he take to satisfy himself as to the provision of funds or did he consider such an exercise to be unimportant. 
If he does not have the information, will he arrange for officials of his department to prepare, in conjunction with the Treasury, and submit to the House, detailed estimates of (a) the cost of bringing existing accommodation up to the new standard and (b) the increased annual maintenance costs. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did he, or someone acting under his authority, issue a directive within the Department of Defence to the effect that, in respect of all correspondence and all intra-departmental memoranda dealing with the conditions of employment or with any industrial matters, an extra copy of such correspondence and memoranda be prepared and forwarded to the  President  of the ACTU. 
If so, (a) what is the purpose of such a directive, (b) was the directive initiated by him or was it a Cabinet decision and (c) is the same procedure to be adopted within other departments. 
We would all join with the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  in desiring new uplands for Australian education. I think there is great agreement in this House and in the Australian community that the provision of extra funds for education which we have seen this year is a good thing. Many of us on this side of the House have been worried by the tendency over recent years for the States to be starved of funds for the fulfilment of their essential purposes and, of course, among the most crucial purposes of the States is education. So, I can only say that we would agree with the honourable member for Casey on that point. But we fear that signs are appearing that the Government's conception of the uplands of education should scare the living daylights out of a very large percentage of the Australian community and should scare the living daylights out of those who have regard for the higher values and for the non-material values in education. 
Without in any way detracting from amounts of money and from many of the purposes of the Australian Schools Commission, I say that it is distinctly odd that this new and permanent proposed Australian Schools Commission makes no provision for non-material values and has no aspirations above financial and material values. It provides no guarantees and no formal structures of freedom in the educational processes of our community. It seems to me to be one of the major ironies of present politics in this country that one of those rare and splendid public men who are most concerned with nonmaterial values in the Australian community - I refer to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  - should be forced to preside over some - not all - education policies which in my judgment and the judgment of my colleagues threaten crucial non-material values in our community. 
This Bill is a Bill which we will support after our amendments have been accepted. If our amendments are accepted, we will not attempt in any way to delay the passage of this Bill. As the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  has pointed out, we are asking no more than was asked of us last year in the consideration of an equally important Bill. Our amendments aim basically at 3 things. They do not seek to strike out provisions of the Bill. They aim at positive provisions. They seek guarantees of freedom, effectiveness and decentralisation. 
Another irony of present day politics in our community is that a Party which has preached so much about open government - open government these days seems to mean that one tells all the secrets of the previous Government and keeps all one's own secrets - and which has talked about getting the people involved, in fact rarely stops to listen to the people. 
It announces its policies. It speaks on high. It does not ask those who are most affected how they would have various things done. It is not surprising that group after group in the Australian community has been alienated and has squealed. The way in which so many hopes have been dashed is one of the saddest things that I have seen in Australian politics in many years. This could so easily have been avoided. A little consultation goes a long way when one is formulating new policies. A pause to discuss, to reflect and to talk together could have solved many of the problems that the Government has struck in this area of education as well as in other areas - such as arts policy notably, but across the whole range of Government policies. Of course the Government - the Australian Labor Party - has tied the hands of the Minister for Education in ways which he could only regret. I am convinced that personally he would have consulted and involved more people in the educational process than he has done. 
Our amendments to the Bill seek to ensure and to guarantee the participation of those who are involved as parents and those who are involved in the organisations of nongovernment schools as well as government schools and to ensure and guarantee their permanent participation at the highest level of national education planning. 
Nothing in this Bill can still our fears about excessive centralisation. Clause 13(1) (a) of the Bill sets out how the Commission is to establish acceptable standards for buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff. In other words, the Commission is charged with very detailed decision making. We saw, of course, in the report of the Interim Committee how mangled things can get when they come out of one central single body. It might be said, that we have learnt the lesson from the findings of the Interim Committee in regard to how much injustice can be done to particular schools as well as to hosts of parents in all schools. It might be said that we have learnt our lesson from that and we will consult with the States. But there is no guarantee that consultation will mean anything in terms of performance. Clause 1 6 (1) provides that the Parliament may in each State establish a schools commission advisory board. It may establish - there is nothing mandatory about this. This provision looks promising at first. But our point is this: Why by-pass those who are most deeply involved in education? You do not decentralise by setting up yet another centralised bureaucracy. That is precisely what the Government is attempting to do - to decentralise by setting up another centralised bureaucratic system. We want to push power in education right out to the periphery of the system. That needs to be further decentralised and we are all in agreement on that. 
I do not intend to have a mean quarrel about that. But the parents are not aided in any material way by the provisions of this Bill. Another point I want to make concerns the vital matter about which the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  spoke - the preservation of freedom of choice for parents and school children. This is referred to in article 26 of the charter of the United Nations Charter. We look to this Bill in vain for any guarantee about the future of independent schools. Clause 13 (3) (a) speaks of a primary obligation of governments in relation to education, for governments to provide and maintain government school systems that are of the highest standard and are open, without fees or religious tests, to all children. That is splendid. We look for the sort of guarantees that the Government would make in regard to the independent school system. 
It is suggested that there is a guarantee of independence in clause 13 (1) (a). But I am pointing to the factors which the Commission is charged to take into account. There is no guarantee of the future of independent schools in clause 13 (1) (a) which the Minister has just mentioned. They are referred to in clause 13 (1) (a), but my point is made precisely by the Minister's interjection because what we have in clause 13 (l)(a) is a general reference to schools, both government and non-government. Paragraph (a) of clause 13 (3) gives quite specific guarantees about the future of government schools, but we have no guarantees about the future of independent schools. I can only come to the conclusion that as there are no guarantees of the future of independent schools - there are no secondary or tertiary guarantees at all - the Bill deliberately has failed to guarantee the future of nongovernment independent schools. 
The Bill does encourage much that is positively good and we have no complaint about that.  I  mention provisions such as are contained in clause 13- 
Yes. 
My point is that this legislation is guaranteeing the maintenance of government school systems. I do not care about the past; we are looking to the future. The Government is guaranteeing the future of government schools in a Bill which will become an Act. There are no guarantees- in regard to independent schools in the same Bill which guarantees the future of government schools. That is absolutely plain, lt may be unintentional, and I hope that it is. But this is absolutely plain from the wording of the Bill. No matter how many other refrences are made in the Bill to non-government schools, they do not get the specific guarantee that is given to government schools. I hope the Minister can clear this up. 
I hope it is not sinister, but I fear it may be. Again it may be that the hands of the Minister are so tied by the faded, old-fashioned reactionaries in his own Party that he has little to do with it. Much that is good is encouraged, such as education for the handicapped, special education problems, migrant education problems and all these things which in later years we in the Liberal governments began to do something about and which have been carried on splendidly by this Government. That is positively good. But the point is that in spite of all of the guarantees the Government made before the last election in regard to the future of independent schools it has now guaranteed only the future of one sector. Therefore all their promises and all of their guarantees about the future of the independent schools have been given their second body blow in this Bill. The first body blow was, of course, contained in the first report of the Interim Committee and the recommendations of that report show how much injustice can be perpetrated in the name of equalising opportunity. 
It is a body blow to countless parents and to the schools which have been improperly classified, and the Minister wanted to see aid continued even at Geelong Grammar. We know that he had to give in to his colleagues on that. We are not going to continue that fight now because it is well known to the community. 
What has happened, sadly, is that now that the Labor Government's education plans have become concrete their promises have melted away. This, as I have said, should scare the living daylights out of so many people in the Australian community who are discovering that as much injustice can be done in the name of equalising opportunity as can be done in the name of anything else. The other point that I want to make is this: In our attempts in the amendments to ensure freedom and effectiveness and decentralisation we are aiming at the guaranteed participation of those deeply involved in education. It is quite extraordinary that in days when people are crying out for participatory democracy that guarantees are not given to the affected community that it shall participate. That is all that we ask.  I  have high hopes that the Minister will be able to come to the party on that. I am sure that as a man of good will, he will seriously consider this. I conclude by saying that much has been done by the Minister and much is being done by the Government. We fear much because of the provisions of this Bill. We do not want to detract from anything, but we do want to see this lovely talk about the uplands of education developed in the finest way possible by this Government, as it would be by any government, so that those non-material values which can make all the difference to an individual's education are preserved for all time in the Australian community. 
Members of the Opposition are persuaded by the point made by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  We think they are right about the need for more than one full-time member on the Commission and we would be prepared to accept the Government's original proposal that there should be 3 full-time members, provided the Government is prepared to accept our proposal that there ought to be the sort of full participation of effective groups at the highest level of advice along the lines that we put before the House today. I have discussed this with the Opposition spokesman on education, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  and we put this forward in all seriousness. We would like to add that we do this in a sort of spirit of compromise and a spirit of agreement which we would hope to get from the Government when we put up our proposals in good faith. 
We are upset that the Minister and other honourable members opposite have attempted to suggest that we have been indulging in cheap smears against Professor Karmel and other members of the Karmel Committee. We have done nothing of the sort. The only problem with Professor Karmel and his colleagues was that which was given to them by the Labor Government. They were given an impossible task. If they made blues, which are now being said by the Minister to be the fault of the schools in the way that they put in their submissions to the Committee, that was because this Labor Government just did not give them the time or the chance to put in the sort of information which any decent institution in the world would want to submit. That is where the problem lies. The schools were given a few days to provide details of their needs. We would be the last people to blame Professor Karmel. He was given a timetable by the Government. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and takes up his statement of a moment ago about the significance of statements overseas by Ministers and members of this Parliament. My question is based on recent discussions in South-East Asia, the United States of America and the United Kingdom at the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference. What urgent steps will the Prime Minister take to reverse the image his Government is creating in our region and among our allies - an image of uncertainty, of untrustworthiness and of a jingoistic Australian ugliness which would do our worst tourist proud? 
 Can the Prime Minister assure the House that debate on the motion which the right honourable member for Higgins has on the notice paper relating to homosexuality will not be cut short by a function in honour of the Queen tomorrow? How much time will he allow? Will he ensure that the House is able to give this sensitive and important matter the time it deserves so that this Parliament will not seem to be entirely irrelevant to many Australians? 
It is an odd and somewhat unnerving experience for an Australian to travel overseas at the moment, as I have just done to a Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference in London, travelling through 4 South-East Asian countries, the United States of America, France as well as the United Kingdom. The reason why it is odd and somewhat unnerving for Australians to travel abroad at the moment is that there seems to be more than a little uncertainty about the direction that this country is taking in world affairs and in our region. A feeling of untrustworthiness is developing about the activities and the intentions of the Australian Government. It is quite clear that what is getting across to the world is not the independent stance which some members opposite had intended, but a sort of arrogant isolationism. This attitude bewilders many of our friends and old allies and again and again one is asked overseas: 'Are the Australian people really like that, or are the Australian masses really like that?' This is all the more marked because so much had been expected in a way of the new Labor Government of this country. 
We on this side of the House have had our difficulties in recent years. We had not always uttered a clear line in foreign policy thinking. So, there was a very considerable interest overseas in what might happen here and the sort of new face we might turn to the world. I think I can say that the stages through which our allies and neighbours have gone in looking at us are something like this: The stage of being interested, - then excited, then amused, then bored, then anxious and finally amazed. They showed interest at first in some of the ideas of the new Government and an interest in how the new Government would go and what sort of difference it would make. They were excited by our 2-man dictatorship because we were trying out a pattern that has been fairly well tried around so many parts of the world. 
They were amused at the antics of the Government, as illustrated just then by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  Our neighbours and allies were then bored by the Government's childishness and by the sort of early adolescent behaviour which its members were displaying. After that I would say our neighbours were anxious at the behaviour of a country which was an old ally and an old friend. I think finally they have become amazed at the new Australian ugliness which the Labor Government has been per petuating around the world and at home, an Australian ugliness which, as I suggested to this House the other day, would leave the best efforts of our most notorious tourists for dead. 
The Americans sum up the position pretty well by asking: 'What in the hell is going on down under?' The Americans know that they are in awful trouble. They have a quaint, oldfashioned feeling that maybe in their time of trouble they may have been able to rely on their friends. Again, they have a quaint but perhaps old-fashioned belief that Australia is their friend and that there are few nations which have more bonds than the United States of America and our country. They had a feeling that we might have been one of those nations which would not have indulged in cheap smears and sneers in their time of trouble. The Americans know the trouble they are in. They do not need our Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to tell them. They have seen Australia as a sort of last frontier. Many Americans still see Australia in these terms, not unnaturally, because their frontiers are disappearing. They have seen Australia as a sort of last frontier where there are certain basic values which they have cherished. They have seen Australia as a free country and they are astounded that those things which Australians cherished - the freedoms from too much government, from too much arbitrariness and from interfering nonsense - are in the melting pot if they are not out of the window today. The Americans understand Australia's desire to have a clear, strong and uniquely Australian voice, but they rather fear, as so many around the world do, that we have gone a good deal further than that. The Americans will have to live with their troubles for a while yet and therefore something will be asked of us. 
Watergate is far from over and it goes, as we all know, so deep. Of course, Watergate has helped some people, as I discovered in South East Asia. It is doing great things for the cause of corruption in developing countries. It is also doing something for the British monarchy and doing great things for the parliamentary system. Everywhere in the United States of America the point is made: If only we had a little bit of your accountability. Some thought that the Lambton affair, with its repercussions around the world, might have let the Americans off the hook. But even the Lambton affair made the situation all the worse because the Americans remarked on how expeditiously those little problems had been handled. 
It was very odd to visit Paris and to be asked by so many people in France: 'Is it true that the Australian people like the Communist Chinese more than they like the French, or is it that they are just a little hypocritical in their attitudes to bombs?' I was able to tell the French that the postal workers' boss, when asked whether he would also put a ban on Chinese mail as well as on French mail, said that he would not. He was asked the reason and he said: 'Well, the point is that in the one case they have let it off in their own territory and in the other it is in our neck of the woods'. That answer did not satisfy the interviewer who pushed the postal workers' boss a bit further. The postal workers' boss said: 'Well, one is an imperialist's bomb and the other is a working man's bomb'. The point was fairly well taken by the French. 
The British, bound still by so many bonds to Australia - bonds of history and kinship - are not altogether surprised at the behaviour of the new Whitlam Government. They feel that they have seen it all before in the behaviour of the now dead Wilson Government. 
The Singaporeans are waging almost daily verbal war on Australia, particularly through their official organs and frankly they despise the Australian Government's approach. On the other hand the New Zealand Labor Government has seen its opening and is leaping in to create even stronger ties of goodwill in the region where the Australian Labor Government is sacrificing them. The South Vietnamese want to know whether the Australian people want the communist aggressors to win. The Malaysians and Indonesians reckon that we do not know we are alive. Our strutting, our crudeness, our know-all qualities, our apparent innocence but our questionable credibility on the nature of the region and its problems, our unwillingness to listen - all these features of the behaviour of the Australian Government are making their mark on our reputation in our region. 
In South Vietnam the war is going on. Every day northerners are infiltrating and skirmishing and a major attack is expected. All of our neighbours face major problems of subversion. They look with the wariest possible eye on the activities of the major powers. The great reason why they did not want us to leave Vietnam is that they felt we might be replaced by less friendly powers in the region. The new accords with China, the so-called detente between the super powers, impressed them not one bit. They are more inclined to believe the views of the Communist Chinese Government than the views of the Whitlam Government on matters like this. They believe along with the Chinese Communist Government that the detente is a lot of hog wash and that the revolution is on the march as much as it ever was. If anyone would doubt this I refer to  Mr Chiao  Kuan.Hua's recent and major address to the United Nations. The point is that they believe the Australian Government is building a fool's paradise down here. They understand the tragic necessity of preparing for the worst while hoping for the best. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Locock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I seek to raise the question of the adoption of Vietnamese or Cambodian orphans by young Australian couples. There were days when, regrettably, young Australian couples who wished to adopt refugee or orphan babies were fundamentally prevented from doing so by governments in Australia. Happily, that is no longer the case. There are considerable numbers of young Australian couples who wish to adopt orphans from overseas. In many parts of Australia today standard Australian adoptions are taking many months if not years. The pill is, of course, taking its toll of potential adoptees. These days, as we all know, unmarried mothers are considerably more inclined to keep their babies than they were before. This naturally has led some idealistic young Australian couples to look to countries which have been ravaged by war, where thousands of babies, if they are lucky, lie often three or four to a dirty cot in crowded nurseries and orphanages. In effect, the supply is unlimited and young Australians who are balanced and sensible as well as idealistic young people find it the most natural thing in the world to look at this stage to this source, particularly because of the fact that in the case of Vietnam, we have been involved in the war there. 
The authorities overseas are happy to have us help even if the numbers affected by anything we can do about adopting the babies represent only a tiny percentage of their problem. As I have said, the Australian authorities no longer make it necessary, fortunately, for the orphans to be smuggled in. It is quite clear that the numbers involved are no threat to Australia's immigration policies. No one is looking for the adoption by Australians of thousands of young babies; all that is being looked for is a number of the order of 100, possibly up to 200, per annum. I do not think that anyone is talking about numbers greater than that. But although these numbers are small it is my view that they oan considerably improve the quality of our migration program because they recognise not only Australia's need for migration but also, however slenderly, what is a real world problem. After all, in the case of South Vietnam, Australian soldiers have left their orphan offspring behind them on enough occasions to make us stop to consider what our moral responsibilities might be in this matter. So, it is more than a simple migration question. Accepting that certain restricted numbers of babies are coming and will come to Australia - young babies have arrived in recent days; a close relative of mine has received a young baby from South Vietnam in the last week or two - I ask the Government to do all in its power to speed up the processes both here and overseas. At the moment, adoptions are taking from 6 months to 12 months whereas they could and should take only about 6 weeks. If there were someone responsible for this matter at the other end, say in Saigon, I understand from authorities and individuals in Vietnam that the whole process could be infinitely speeded up. I do not believe that assistance from the Government would cost much at all. It need not be more than a drop in the bucket of our overseas aid. 
Alternative ways in which we could help include the utilisation of our official aid program by the provision of some person to aid this process of adoption who would be appointed on a temporary basis because the need in Saigon will not necessarily last. Alternatively, I believe it could be done by assisting a voluntary agency to become established and to do the work. What I am looking for is something like an Australian halfway house in Saigon where someone could be responsible for undertaking all the organisational details, for finding suitable babies for interested Australian couples and, in particular, for cutting through all the incredible red tape that is inevitably bound up in these procedures. However, adopting parents would of course continue to bear the brunt of the financial responsibility and it is a pretty big brunt too, as I understand it, because they are up for air fares, nursing and legal fees and so on. 
The Minister for Immigration says that the Government now pays their air fares; that is splendid. Other nations are helping in the way that I seek Australian Government help. Other nations are helping a certain small number of halfway houses in, say, Saigon. What one should look for is a house, some nursing staff and in particular, as I say, someone with some administrative skills and drive but not necessarily any particular qualification other than a great interest in the job. 
It was brought to my attention when I was in Saigon that someone on the spot can do so much to speed up this process of adoption. Of course, one wants to see the process speeded up in the interests of the babies and also of the adopting parents. This process can so easily get bogged down as it did for instance in a recent series of cases where the parents were told some weeks ago that it would not be possible for them to get their babies before Christmas. They had already been waiting for roughly 6 months and this news was heartbreaking to them because they knew that the babies were not getting the care that they would receive when they reached Australia. Yet the presence in Saigon of a young couple by the name of Robertson, who carried the forms from official to official in our Embassy  -  I might say to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  that these officers have been very helpful - and through the bureaucracies in South Vietnam enabled them to cut off the last 2 months and, indeed, if this process were begun very much earlier I think there would be greater joy all round. I look forward to hearing something on this matter from the Minister for Immigration. 
I would like to defend the character of my friend the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  from the accusations made by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who sits opposite. He has a character of such unblemished richness that the honourable member opposite would never, in his whole life. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill and, indeed, would agree with many of the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  who made the point that other steps in the education area will have far more impact than much which is proposed in the Bill. He said that the Bill is no panacea. One does not need to be a Freud to know of the importance of the early years of life. This is particularly true in the area of education. The Bill, of course, is concerned with adults or with those almost at the end of their education. The Opposition commends the Minister for Education (Mr Beazley) because there is much that is good in the Bill. I particularly like the fact that the procedures in the Bill generally are flexible. They are not so in all cases but in most. The Bill leaves a great deal to regulations. This, I suppose, is a necessary consequence of a flexible arrangement. The fact that so much is left to regulations is a danger which we must watch because it will mean that we are much less likely to have brought to our notice measures which might be of considerable importance and which it may take years to discover. 
In this Bill there is little that is inconsistent with the approach of previous Liberal governments to the financing of higher education. In some areas the Bill goes further, but it is in no way fundamentally inconsistent with our approach. In saying that I am not necessarily praising it, because there are some areas which could be developed. I will dwell upon these presently. This Bill, which provides for the granting of assistance to students at both secondary and tertiary levels is, as honourable members have pointed out, bound up with other Bills for the funding and encouragement of education. In particular this Bill is consequent upon the Government's abolition of tuition fees. In some ways the abolition of all tuition fees is a worrying step, precisely because of what it suggests about priorities in this area. If all fees are being abolished at some cost to the nation, the sort of assistance that can be given to students who really need assistance is diminished. If we cannot give assistance where and when it is needed and in sufficient quantity really to aid students in need, the whole proposal will be retrograde. We all know that financial need is a major factor in student failure. There is what one might describe as a vicious circle of failure and poverty where a student who is struck by poverty has difficulties with his studies, has to go out and take a part time job and ends up failing one or more subjects and this in turn leads to loss of assistance. It is quite possible under this new scheme that some failures in some subjects could lead to the loss of vital assistance at a point where assistance is most needed. It is of crucial importance that the most able students have help where and when they need it and in sufficient quantity. 
The Bill applies to full time students. This is perhaps not unnatural but it is the area in which the Bill leaves most to be desired. There is little doubt that part time students often are those who are in most financial need and who suffer not only from pressing financial need but also from social and domestic strains, from occupational pressures and from all the pressures of life which make studying difficult no matter how keen the student might be. We can see from various studies of the socio-economic background of students that part time students tend to come from lower socio-economic backgrounds than do full time students. We all know that in many cases part time students are the most admirable of students. Among part time students are those who, at an earlier stage of their education, have dropped out and who wish to work their way back to an education. Clearly this is an area which should concern all honourable members. There are those who have been hit by the savagery of quotas, not that I am railing against quotas as such because obviously they are a thing with which we must learn to live. But equally clearly we need to learn to adjust to them and to make provisions for students who are keen to continue on a line of study and who, having failed to meet a quota, can demonstrate by later study that they are worth another try. So often there are people who would be coming back to study in a part time capacity. 
There are also those who have been hit by technological change and who wish to develop new and appropriate qualifications for their work. There are also those admirable people who simply wish to understand more of their world and more of themselves and who are driven by an insatiable curiosity which makes for the true scholar. These are all people who are not necessarily helped by this Bill. So often they will be part time students. I think we need to use what imagination and inventiveness we can to find out how we can positively help these people back into the education which they desire and deserve but which social, financial and domestic pressures so often prevent them from getting. As I have said, this Bill does nothing to help in this area. 
A good feature of the Bill is that it extends the aid to technical college students. Student assistance to be granted under this Bill will be tenable at teachers colleges. This will have a nice side effect because it should enable students to avoid the bonding system which so many of us feel produces a skewed education pattern. In many cases it produces student teachers who have no true vocation for teaching and deprives them of the sort of education from which they might derive more benefit. This will be a feature of the Bill which could be quite a headache for the Commonwealth, because it will mean considerably added expenditure in the future. One particular feature of the Bill, which has been mentioned by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  I would draw to the attention of the 
Minister. On this point we would look for a positive assurance from the Minister. It is that, while at the moment part time students who have a Commonwealth scholarship not only have their tuition fees, examination fees, matriculation fees and degree fees paid but they also have other compulsory fees such as, union fees, library fees, sports fees and nonrefundable laboratory fees paid. The Bill is quite retrograde in that it does not provide for the latter sort of assistance for part time students, being a full time students Bill. So we look to the Government to produce an amendment which would put part time students in precisely the position they are presently in. 
The next point I should like to make is that the maximum living allowance provided under this Bill, though not mentioned in the Bill- that is, $1,400 a year for a student living away from home and $850 a year for a student living at home - is clearly inadequate for some students. It is inadequate for those students whose course workload prevents them from working during student vacations and from earning the sort of money which all other students are able to earn during their long vacation. I think particularly of medical students, of honours year students, those with supplementary examinations and in particular of social work students on unpaid placements. This raises another point, and that is that the test which a student who lives away from home has to meet is particularly hard. This has been true for years. This is not a point for which one places the blame on those who have drawn up this Bill. It has been true for years that many students who were at a stage and in the sort of difficulties which more or less demanded that their educational experience would be better if it were pursued away from home, have been prevented from getting assistance because of the stringent conditions which apply for eligibility for a living away from home grant. We all know that there are clearly certain domestic circumstances which simply make study next to impossible for students. 
There are also some other points within the Bill that are worthy of mention. Clause 18 (1.) provides: 
The Minister may establish one or more Student Assistance Review Tribunals for the purposes of this Act. 
I find it odd that the provision refers to one or more. It would seem to me that need dictates that there should clearly be more than one review tribunal because the very essence of the contract will be speed. The Minister rightly has talked about a revolution in access to education. If there is only one central body reviewing decisions, clearly the backlog of work would be enormous and students facing the very difficult question as to whether they will go on to further education in March or April may find that they will not know for many months what their position is. Clearly we hope that there would be tribunals set up not just at one remote spot but that they would be local and flexible. 
It is also interesting in the Bill that the tribunal is merely asked to review decisions. It is not asked to make a regular report to the Minister. I seek the Minister's assurance that he will be in regular receipt of reviews of policy matters from the tribunal so that he will be informed and so that this House can be informed of the particular problems in this area of student finance. The previous Minister for Education, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who spoke earlier, commended the setting up of this tribunal to review decisions made by authorised persons under the Bill. But it seems to me that it is important that the Minister should be in a real sense available as a court of last resort. I do not like the idea of too much independent decision making here because I think if we shove things too much in the periphery of politics the role of the people is that much less significant. It is understandable that Ministers would like to be able to say that they have no responsibility but I believe that though the workload could be great it is important that the ultimate responsibility of the Minister is affirmed. He needs to know precisely what is happening through the course of time. 
There is another worrying point in the Bill. Clause 23 (1) (b) provides for a 90-day period before which the tribunal can be requested to make a decision on an appeal. Why on earth this could not have been 21 days or even 14 days, I do not know. It is precisely the point which the Minister made in his second reading speech, that the aim is to provide a revolution in access to education. If students are to be kept hanging around for 3 months from March in a particular year this is hardly revolutionary access to education. A further point I would make is concerned with clause 29 (2) which provides: 
The Tribunal may, if it is satisfied that it is desirable to do so . . . direct that proceedings or a part of any proceedings before the Tribunal shall take place in private and may give directions as to the persons who may be present during the whole or any part of the proceedings. 
I fully appreciate that there will be occasions when, because of the sensitive personal nature of matters under consideration, those matters might better be dealt with in private. But why it is up to the tribunal and not to the applicant, not to the student, I fail to see. It seems to me that proceedings before review tribunals should, as far as is humanly possible, be open so that everyone can see that justice is being done. I should like to see the Minister give consideration to providing that proceedings may be held in private at the request of the student applicant to the tribunal. I cannot foresee any circumstances in which if he were not keen for this action to be taken, it would necessarily be in the interests of the tribunal for such proceedings to be private. 
I have dealt with these matters in detail in the second reading debate in order to save time in the Committee stage of the Bill. The only final point I should like to make is that good and all as it is, flexible and all as it is, we will need to watch the scheme. We will need to see how it works out in practice. There is another significant area which has been untouched by this Bill and that is the area of self help. With so much being expended today by governments on the education of students and in particular in higher education, it may well be appropriate for some form of self help to be involved. There is no question that the students concerned gain very considerably personally as well as the nation gaining because of their studies. We in this Parliament should seriously consider some form of student loan scheme, perhaps arranged with the banks, along the lines which I know had been explored by previous Ministers for Education. 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property a question about the Government's intention to remove certain anomalies from the Broadcasting and Television Act. Does the Minister also regard it as a childish anomaly that the radio and television broadcasting of political matter must cease 2 days before an election while the Press may carry the fight up to the eve of the election? Will the Minister seek to amend the Act to extend to radio and television the freedom enjoyed by the Press in this matter? 
In the mouth of this Labor Government, open government seems to mean that you tell all the so-called secrets of the previous Government and hide all your own. I challenge the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who has just made that absolutely unsubstantiated smear to give the Parliament any of the information upon which such a scurrilous claim is based so that it can be judged by this House. It has become absolutely and completely typical for the Minister for Social Security again and . again to smear people. He smears the previous Government, he smears us, he smears doctors and the health funds. He smears anyone to suit has purposes because he knows very well that his precious health scheme is in tatters. The evidence of the health scheme toeing in tatters is the latest White Paper which he has put before this House and which he refuses to allow this House to debate. 
It is odd that the Minister can give us the costing of a Liberal proposal for the reform of the present health scheme. He costed a proposal which we had made at $160m. But he gave us no costings whatever in order to back up his claims about how the Government's health scheme would be cheaper for 3 out of 4 people. Even if it is true - I very much doubt that it is and the Minister does not have the guts to give us the figures upon which he bases such statements - it would still be more expensive for one in 4 families and for 3 out of 7 individuals. So, what about this open government? How about stopping the smears and giving us some genuine open government? 
Anyone who heard the Minister for Social Security speaking a few minutes ago about the problems of aged persons homes and hostels would, I think, clearly understand precisely what terrifies us about the Labor health scheme. Here we have a situation of raging inflation, meaning that approvals for new homes and hostels for aged people have had to come to a stop. They have ground to a halt in the offices of the Government. Because the Government is unable to increase the subsidy for as yet it has not been able to find the money, it has effectively stopped plans for the building of new homes and hostels for elderly people in our community. That is what we face in that area; how much bigger is the health area as a whole. If the Government cannot find money for that area, how on earth are we going to be able to trust it to find the sort of resources which would be necessary under its new scheme. Surely this in itself is warning enough of what happens when government gets too much of a grip on basic community services. 
In Britain, for instance, where the health scheme is funded by the national Government, I understand that the percentage of the national income spent on health is smaller than in any comparable Western nation. That in itself would be part of the reason why in Britain they have such difficulty with their health scheme. This suggests that the more the responsibility for basic services such as this one is shifted away from the people and placed in the hands of governments, the less efficient the services will become and the less the community can provide the resources necessary to run such services successfully. 
The Minister said that he stands by his assertion that about 87 per cent of the community is covered by the present health scheme. This statement of the Minister is at least colligative, if not worse, because what the Minister has done in his White Paper on this scheme is to extract a figure from  th:  figures provided by the Bureau of Census and Statistics - a perfectly responsible and clear summation of the evidence - and from its tables. The Bureau of Census and Statistics states clearly: 
Because of this circumstance, the proportion of persons covered by such schemes was lower in Queensland than elsewhere, being only 66.4 per cent, whereas in the rest of Australia coverage was 89.9 per cent, the combined figure for all Australia being 86.S per cent. 
The point is that it is only fair when picking one figure out of a sentence to pick also the other figures which make sense of the whole sentence. The Minister simply cannot say that what is going on in Queensland with respect to the free health care that is available in that State is not relevant to the question of voluntary insurance. Of course it is relevant. Everybody knows that it is relevant. 
My friend, the honourable member for Griffith, who is from Queensland would completely concur in this. 
The reference to Queensland was also interesting for precisely the point that the Minister made. He said that, in Queensland, people have to wait at an outpatient clinic of a public hospital and that such outpatient clinic services are not comparable to what one would receive through a private doctor's clinic. Of course, this is the sort of point we make again and again. It is in this area that we have basic objections to the Government's health scheme. People want and are entitled to the best quality and the private quality care. It is interesting that even in Queensland, so many people bother to belong to private insurance funds. Another point made toy the Minister for Social Security is that one of the main reasons why migrants will not stay in Australia is that we do not have a universal health scheme. 
As my friend again suggests, it is absolute garbage. There is no evidence to support this proposition. Indeed, on all the evidence I have ever heard, the Minister has got it back to front. Thousands and thousands of migrants came to Australia because they believed that this was a free country, a country where the individual mattered, where the private life, thoughts, beliefs and relationships mattered and could matter in the most intimate and important of human relationships such as health care, education and similar matters. This Government still allows us the choice of the automobile we want to drive. When is it going to decide what sort of car we should drive? It is in the most important matters of life that the Government is refusing our freedoms. It is running against the whole tenor of Australian history - the sort of things which have made us a proud and free country. As I say, it is this sort of thing that has drawn people to Australia and it is precisely the sort of scheme that the Minister wishes to establish in this country that they were escaping from when they came here. They left places like Britain with its nationalised health scheme and still they tell us horrifying stories about that scheme. If I had time I would deal with them chapter and verse. 
As is admitted by the architects of the scheme which Labor seeks to introduce in this country, it is fundamentally an amalgam of the British and Canadian schemes. It cannot be denied that it entails significant extensions of nationalisation or socialism in this country. 
The point is that in Britain the backlog of cases is absolutely appalling. If it is an urgent case for hospital treatment, the patient might get into hospital within a year or two. If it is in the not so urgent list, a patient could wait up to 5 years, or I understand in particular cases, even 6 years. I recall the case of a girl who told me she went to her local doctor who thought that she had a malignant growth in her stomach. He said that he would write to the hospital to see whether he could get her an appointment for the specialist. She said to him, 'For God's sake, can't you rmg him up? I want to see him right away.' The doctor replied, 'Of course not. I am going to do it as I am told how to do it.' He wrote, and 6 or 7 days later he got a reply saying that she could call in 6 weeks to get an opinion from the specialist. Instead, that girl went the next day to see the same specialist privately and paid him for an opinion, which was a good one for her. However, she had to pay for that opinion from her own resources. So much for a government scheme. So much for nationalised medicine. 
I raise a matter of discrimination against women on the basis that they are women. I raised this matter with the Prime Minister's special adviser on women, Miss Reid. I have had a miserable reply. She has, to be fair, shown sympathy to the matter which I raised with her through my secretary. But I am afraid it was little more than cold tea and sympathy. The circumstances of this discrimination go back many years and could be laid at the feet of previous Liberal governments as much as at the feet of the present Government. I am not in any way firing shots at the present Government in particular about this matter. It was a matter which did not come to the previous Government's attention when we, on this side of the House, were in Government. It is a matter which has been only recently brought to the attention of the Labor Government. I regret that so far the Government has not been able to do anything about it, particularly as it has taken some steps forward in other matters of discrimination against women. 
There is, of course, a new world wide consciousness of the rights and opportunities of women. This has been manifested by recent actions in Australia. The nub of the matter that I wish to raise is that women who did the same war work as men, in the same place, wearing even the same clothes, do not get the same housing benefits even if their work was in a war zone, such as Papua New Guinea. The May 1973- 
The present Government has been asked to do something- - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The Minister for Transport will cease interjecting and will withdraw that remark. 
If the Minister for Transport had been listening to my opening remarks he would have heard me make mention of the fact that previous Liberal governments did nothing about this. 
Previous Liberal governments were not asked to do anything about this matter. I make this speech in no mean party political atmosphere. The Minister for Transport is trying to reduce this to a matter of Party politics. The May 1973 amendment to the Defence Service Homes Act provided that in the future women will be eligible for home loans in the same way as men. In other words, if men are entitled to receive a housing loan assistance grant, women will be entitled to receive that grant also. Previously, such benefits had been restricted to persons whose terms of enlistment involved their preparedness to undertake active service overseas. During World War II the majority of men in the Australian Imperial Forces, and the other Services, enlisted in such a way that they indicated their preparedness to undertake service overseas, whereas most women - similar to members of the Citizen Military Forces - were engaged for home service only. This fact, in itself, automatically disqualified those women from eligibility for home loan assistance. Only those who actually served outside Australia or in the Territories of Australia qualified for special housing assistance. I am told - and this is very interesting - that the first women who enlisted in fact did enlist on the same terms as men but when, later, they requested the same sorts of facilities and repatriation assistance as men, these were not granted to them. Shortly after some hundreds of women had been enlisted on the same terms as men, the method of enlistment for women was changed. 
The point I raise is that it is not the service outside Australia or in its territories in time of war which counts, but it is the enlistment and preparedness of a person to serve outside Australia and not necessarily such actual service which determines whether a man received housing loan assistance then and receives it to this day. Many men, who enlisted as being prepared to serve outside Australia but who did not serve outside Australia, still qualified for a loan. In other words, they were in the same position, except for the form of enlistment, as women who served in the Forces at home. I understand also that many women who served in a war zone, such as Papua where obviously they were serving under extremely arduous conditions, did not receive the benefits which men alongside whom they were serving did in fact receive. 
I refer to a case of a man who volunteered to serve overseas but was not posted overseas. This man, who worked on the home front, is eligible today under the old regulations for housing benefits because of the nature of his enlistment but not his service. On the other hand his female co-worker is not eligible for a loan simply because of the terms of her enlistment. In fact, they did the same kind of work. The women acted as flight mechanics, transport drivers and cooks doing precisely the same sort of work as men and, often, as I say, in Papua New Guinea working under the same dangers. For this work they received, I understand, two-thirds of the male wage, as well as having to suffer the indignity of having to wear blue calico bloomers and men's giggle suits. 
They told me. I did not look. Female flight mechanics had great difficulty getting promotion until the end of the war. Whereas male flight mechanics could do a course to get their stripes, female mechanics were not able to do a course until the end of the war so that they too could get their stripes. In future men and women will be entitled to the same benefits, so what I am talking about really is the present effects of what are now historical circumstances. The Second World War is now nearly 3 decades past, and most women who served in that War have established themselves in civilian life, but there are some ex-servicewomen, some of them fairly elderly, who are in very straitened circumstances and who cannot help noticing that, with all that is happening to the young women today, they, the older women who served their country in the same circumstances as did many men, are' not getting the benefits to which the men alongside whom they served are entitled. I realise that extending the benefits does involve some complications because there are also men who enlisted for service only in Australia who have to be considered, but the point remains that women doing the same work, wearing the same clothes, getting less pay, suffering the same hardships, sometimes working in areas where war was raging, do not today get the benefits to which men are entitled. I ask the Government to consider this matter with the greatest sympathy. 
Is it a fact that in his recent guest editorial in the Pharmacy Guild Journal Contact' the Minister for Social Security claimed that the Labor Government had generously increased dispensing fees for pharmaceutical benefits and made-up prescriptions by 8c, and that this action had been constantly rejected by the previous Government? Are the real facts that the Labor Government simply agreed to continue to act in accordance with agreements made between the Liberal Government and the pharmacists early in 1972? Is it a fact that the Minister has again been caught out using the type of misrepresentation and distorted propaganda which he so constantly complains of in others? 
One wonders what one can assume from the constant attendance in this House this afternoon of a total of one or two members of the Labor Party about the regard of Government supporters for this measure which the Government has put before us. 
There is little enthusiasm. Perhaps,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  Government members intend to draw a veil of secrecy over the operation in which they are involved in this Bill; perhaps they simply do not care. Even the charms and the eloquence of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  could not beguile them out of their private chambers. 
This is a Bill which, as other honourable members have said, basically seeks to do 2 things. It seeks to extend to all electors the right to vote in a referendum and it seeks to reduce the requirement that there should be, in addition to an absolute majority of electors in favour of a proposed amendment to the Constitution, also a majority in a majority of States supporting such a proposal. This Bill, in seeking to do these 2 things, offers us not only a bait but also a hook. The bait is highly succulent, tender and juicy. We agree completely with the remarks of Government supporters that it is a fundamental democratic principle that all electors should have the right to vote in a referendum. I do not think there would be a member of my Party or indeed on my side of the House who would depart from that principle. I was puzzled by the remarks of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  about what might happen to this legislation in another place. 
 That is a matter for another day in another place. But I will have to see it before I believe it. 
The bait is offered that, by passing this Bill and supporting this referendum on which the Bill is based, we should give votes in a referendum to all electors in this country. We would love to be able to do it. We regret that this is merely a bait which is placed upon a hook - a hook which has some lack of attraction for us. The hook is in a way another one of those hooks which suggests that the Labor Party would, if it could, hang federalism by the neck until it was dead. Further, the Government has thrown a veil of secrecy over its operations. The basic and short statement which is contained in the Bill and which will be put before the people can only mislead the people as to the question on which they will be casting a vote in the referendum. The Bill is entitled as a Bill for an Act to facilitate alterations to the Constitution. That is a general statement. No detail is given as to what sort of alteration is envisaged. It could be stated as an alteration of the Constitution to enable a referendum to be passed if there were a majority in three out of the 6 States or something like that. It could be stated in a dozen words at the most. 
We go on and find that the other half of the proposition which is being put to the people is spelt out. It is odd that one part of the proposition is spelt out in detail while the other part warrants no detail whatsoever in the mind of the Government, the other part being, of course, to allow electors in Territories as well as electors in the States to vote at referendums on proposed laws to alter the Constitution. That is nothing other than an attempt to draw a veil of secrecy over what is being done to mislead the people as to the vote they will be making at the referendum. We strenuously object to this sort of thing. 
Constitutions, by their very nature, should be hard to change, precisely because they are in effect the rules which govern the Government of the country. Honourable members opposite might say that in Britain the Constitution can be changed easily by a majority in the Houses of Parliament. If they have a mind to say this, I would remind them that in Britain the Constitution, at least in important particulars, is changed only after the most lengthy deliberative proceedings in their Houses of Parliament. Britain does not change its Constitution with anything like the reckless abandon with which the Government in this country these days seeks to change the Australian Constitution, and indeed, in some respects, even the Australian way of life. The Constitution is always a most serious document, because it governs the Government of the country. In a federal system it is even more important that there should be safeguards surrounding the Constitution. It is unimaginable that one would have a federal system without building safeguards of that federal system into the Constitution because there has to be some way of reconciling the obvious conflicts which will occur in such a system from time to time between all the parts or the governments of the system. 
If at the time of Federation those who looked to the future felt that the small States mightbe in some peril at the hands of the predatory large States, today it is all the States who feel that they are in some peril at the hands of the predatory central government. That was not a question when the Constitution was drawn up. Few thought at the time of Australia's Federation that the basic governing role of the States was in any real doubt. There was a thought, of course, that the big States could in certain particulars dominate. Nobody really for a moment thought that the States as basic governing units were threatened by the system. It is true that Alfred Deakin, with remarkable prescience, talked of the way in which the small States would be drawn into the orbit of the large and of the way in which the power of the new Federal Government would increase. He talked of the States being tied to the chariot wheels of the Commonwealth, and we all know those great words. As I say ,there was remarkable prescience, but the fact remains that at Federation there was no thought that the States were in dire peril of their existence. 
At the time of the Constitution, as a matter of convenience, the founding fathers sought to deal with the troublesome and absurd matters which were summed up as the barbarism of borderism. They sought very often economic goals, but there was no thought that our system would ultimately become a unitary system. My point is that even then, under no real threat, the founding fathers provided for a majority of the States in a referendum as a sensible way to provide for democratic dealings between what would be regarded as equal members in a partnership who had decided for certain important and overriding reasons to come together to form a federal union but for other purposes to retain their separate existence. This after all is to this day what federalism is all about. It is about the decision to sink certain differences for certain common purposes while retaining a measure of pride in one's own existence. 
Today the spirit in which the Federal Labor Government acts is what sadly disturbs so many Australians. The logical extension of the remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his opening speech in this debate is that an ordinary majority of all electors would suffice for the passage of a referendum. There is no particular magic in there being a majority in three out of the 6 States as he is suggesting with the support of his Party. There is no magic at all in this. There is indeed much more magic in the proposition that there ought to be a majority of States that would assent to anything that is as basic to a constitution as are the powers between and among the several States of the union. 
It is a very odd thing that in 1973 the constitutional safeguards of the federal system should take on a new significance, but they do. They take on a new significance because we live today in what we might loosely describe as days of big government. Government is no longer a thing that you could do in the afternoon between a good lunch and those other things that gentlemen used to do in .the evenings and sometimes still do, even in this House, in the days when the British Constitution comprised the monarch, the parliament and the foxhounds. Today we live in different days. We live in days of big bureaucratic government, when big government poses a quite new threat to individuals. Only today we have been talking about such threats in government bureaucracies and the use of secrets. This means that we must take a fresh look at those sorts of things which safeguard individual rights and which safeguard a system which provides checks and balances aimed at safeguarding individual rights. 
It always strikes me as a sad and quaint thing that the Australian Labor Party rails so much against the 'inherent conservatism of the Australian people' and that it rails against the Australian people for only being decent enough to pass 5 referendums. What it fails to see is that this is a measure very often of the wisdom of the Australian people and the basic good sense of the Australian people, who are healthy disrespecters of government and who, if they are healthy disrespecters of all government, are particularly healthy disrespecters of Canberra based government. They are healthy disrespecters, as Australian people, of big government, because they are basic respecters of the rights of individual people. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, in a report in the Canberra Times' this morning of a question I asked of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in this House yesterday. The report states: 
The increase in pharmacy charges for making up prescriptions was granted to the pharmaceutical profession without any demur at all, the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  told  Mr Staley  . . . . who asked in the House of Representatives yesterday if the Labor Government had been over-generous in granting the recent 8 per cent increase.  Mr Hayden  said the increase restored proper and amicable relations between the profession and the Government. 
In fact, I asked the Minister whether he had claimed in a recent article that the Government had made a generous increase in pharmaceutical benefits; whether it was a fact that he said that this increase had been constantly rejected by the previous Government and whether this was not totally misleading in view of the fact that all the Minister was doing was putting into practice agreements reached between the pharmacists and the Liberal-Country Party Government early last year. I asked him, therefore, whether he was not distorting the situation and using mislead ing propaganda in precisely the way that he so often accuses others of doing. 
Is the Minister for Immigration aware that the Prime Minister told this House on 20 November that the Government may advise overseas students that it is their  duty to go back to the country which gave them their basic education but that it does not deport those students and that if students choose to remain in Australia they will be permitted to stay? I ask the Minister whether this is an accurate statement of Government policy. Is the choice of the student, as the Prime Minister says, all that matters? If the policy is to respect the choice of the student, why is the Minister still causing heartbreak to some students by telling them that they must leave the country by a certain date, without at any stage advising them that they are free to remain in Australia if they choose? Now that the Prime Minister has made the policy clear, will the Minister revoke his order to depart made to  Mr Danny  Chu? 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  who has just resumed his seat, told this House that he found it hard to know where the Opposition stood regarding this Bill. This thought was echoed by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  who spoke earlier in the debate, although he seemed to have some certainty about the matter because he said that the Opposition spokesman on education in this House, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  had led us up the garden path. If he led us up the garden path he gave us a good time when we got to the end of it; contrary to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who has led us up the garden path of expectation in some areas of education, as indeed in many other areas, and has left us bereft when we reached the end of the path. 
The Opposition, however, has no doubt that this Bill provides a very great deal that is good in Australian education, and it is in no way objecting to the fundamental provisions of this Bill. It is not seeking to withdraw or withhold any of the extra funds which are being directed to Australian education through this Bill. The honourable member for Barton, as have other Government supporters, talked about the old bogy of state aid. This old bogy of state aid is a matter about which the  Deputy Chairman  of the Interim Schools Commission is not nearly so certain. She said: 
I am doubtful if anyone ever really thought about what the end result of a 'needs' approach to state aid would be. 
She went on to say: 
I really think that people will have to sit up and start thinking hard about what will have to be done In 1979. 
She also said: 
If anyone thinks about it, division is the inevitable result of taking a needs approach to state aid. 
So it is clear that the  Deputy Chairman  and, as I would understand it, the  Chairman  of the Interim Schools Commission are seriously exercising their minds about the consequences of a policy which rejects some form of basic per capita provision for every pupil in Australian schools. The invitation has gone out to those working in Australian schools to come forward with suggestions about how moneys might be allocated on a recurrent basis for the future of Australian education. This is more or less what we on this side of the House are suggesting; not that grants should be made only on a per capita basis, but also that there should be some form of basic provision for all students, to which would be added special provision for those in some form of need or other. Of course, the need is many and varied. This concept, oddly enough, has some support in the media. The 'Australian' does not see our approach as an old bogy, as does the honourable member opposite. Indeed, on 8 August this year the 'Australian' said: 
The best way to cope with the problem would be to retain the per capita grants for all schools and give extra assistance to the poorer establishments which genuinely need it 
That is intelligent thinking indeed from the 'Australian'. As I have said, there is much that is good in this Bill. We all applaud the provision for teacher training and in-service training and the imaginative approach to teacher education centres. There is much in this Bill which goes towards meeting the problem of education of the underprivileged. There is aid for disadvantaged schools. One of the problems of migrant education which has been highlighted by some people recently is that the children of migrants, and of recently arrived migrants are involved in an environment at school which is in so many respects foreign to that which they have left behind in the old country. It seems to me that an approach to their education which stresses the values and traditions of their own cultures would be at least as important as constantly harping on the importance of their becoming proficient in English, as most of them will do, anyway. I am referring not necessarily to the older generation, but the young generation will learn English. 
Let us talk more about the need for the school to understand the culture from which these children have come. The main languages of the cultures from which they have come should actually be taught in the schools in which they are learning. This obviously would be a novel approach to their integration in the 
Australian community. In this whole area of disadvantage, I make the point that disadvantage can strike in any school, and the worst disadvantage of all which a student can face is the disadvantage of having parents who do not understand or appreciate what education is all about. Again the  Deputy Chairman  of the Interim Schools Commission,  Mrs Blackburn,  in South Australia on 13 July this year said: 
There is no reason to believe that any amount of money poured into the school will make any difference to the outcome for the child. 
As we are expending these very great amounts of money, I think, that we have to pause before we are certain that we are always expending the money in the best possible direction. We must simply not expect too much for our expenditure in many of these areas. For that reason I applaud the provision of resources for experimental projects in this Bill. It is so much better to do some research with a trial group in a small and restricted area to see how some new concept evolves than, in the name of experimentation, to force change on a community where that change might have only dire results. An obvious illustration from overseas experience is that of abusing which was conceived as a mode of overcoming problems of very deep disadvantage in urban America. The busing procedures are falling into ruin all over the United States of America as a quite inappropriate way of solving the problem regarding race and disadvantage in American education. 
Indeed, as the honourable member says, it has been counterproductive because the good education which is being received by many students is being destroyed and the position of others who are receiving a poorer education is not being bettered. Another area of this Bill provides assistance for special education for handicapped children. The Bill contains a good broad definition of special schools'. It states: 
Special school' means a school in a State . . . at which special education is provided for handicapped children, or if education other than such special education is provided at that school, that school in so far as it provides such special education; 
This is good because it enables the integration of special education within the ordinary education system. But what is not good is that this applies only to government special schools as far as building projects are concerned. In government special schools future building projects are being encouraged and provision is being made for recurrent expenditure. But there is a nasty little note in the Bill for it discriminates against non-government special schools, as it provides for only recurrent expenditure. This is most unfortunate because it severely limits the future of non-government special schools. If this policy were to be continued there would simply not be another building put up without immense effort, strain and hardship on the part of parents in the non-government sector. It would hit at parents who wished to make additional provision for their handicapped children. It would hit at parents who wanted their handicapped children to receive an education with a particular religious or philosophic bent. It would do nothing to aid the integration of children needing special education with normal children in ordinary school situations. 
The deaf unit at a school called the Yarra Valley Church of England school in Ringwood, Victoria, is precisely the type of school of which I am thinking. It has been working extremely well. It has a small unit set up for deaf children and provides them with highly specialised training in the broader context of an ordinary, normal, day to day school environment. I should have thought that we would all agree that wherever possible that is precisely the way we should be educating handicapped children. However, this Bill provides that that sort of thing can go on only in the government sector. It discriminates against future capital projects in the non-government sector and therefore against the worthy aim of integration of handicapped pupils with other pupils. 
One of the amendments proposed by the Opposition provides for a tribunal to review categorisation decisions. Unfortunately the categorisation philosophy was conceived in hatred and executed in haste. I do not blame the Schools Commission for this; it had its riding instructions from the Government. For instance, schools were given only 3 weeks in which to complete the first questionnaire. Later those schools which felt aggrieved about the category in which they were placed were not even sent a letter by the Committee on which they could base an appeal. They were advised only by newspaper advertisements that appeals could be made to the Government on categorisation decisions. The limitations of the categorisation criteria demand that they be looked at again for the future and that there be a review tribunal procedure. Schools simply must know where they stand. It is awful, of course, to think that knowing where they stand they will make deliberate decisions to withdraw from some new projects which could only add excellence to their schools. Nevertheless, it is important that they should know where they stand. 
The categorisation questions which the Committee asked the schools concerned the number of staff, both teaching and ancilliary, their salaries and wages, the school's operational expenditure and expenditure of durable teaching equipment. Many questions might be asked about these matters. For example, what amount has been included for staff superannuation? In independent schools that figure is most significant. Another question could be: What allowance was made for the higher average age of staff in most independent schools? The average age of staff in independent schools might well be 10 or IS years older than the average age of staff in state-run schools. Simply because of this factor salary costs to independent schools would be much higher indeed than to government schools, on a pro rata basis. Further, there can be no simple direct relationship between resources used in the particular year 1972 and either the recurrent needs of a school or the resources available to a school. 
The formula used takes no account, or at any rate insufficient account, of deliberate educational policy choices of a school authority over such matters as quality as opposed to quantity, whether the school is a boarding school or a day school, whether it is small or large and whether it is located in the city or the country. The formula takes no account of academic programs, though a school may offer specialised courses to meet a particular need in the community such as a technical course at an independent school in the city or a Chinese language course at another school. Another relevant factor is class size. This can be determined not by educational policy but by enrolment procedures and problems. The school with small classes often is the school in most need and is not a school that is flush with funds. Another problem in categorisation was that a certain average salary level was taken as representing the salaries of senior people in the Catholic school sector. This average salary in no way relates to the sort of salary paid to senior administrators in other non-government and government schools. 
Further, in relation to teachers in religious orders costs with respect to things such as superannuation, long service leave and so on are much lower than in respect to other teachers. As the Opposition has said before and will say again, very few visits were made by members of the Interim Schools Commission either to Catholic or non-Catholic independent schools in Australia. One could go on but I should like to finish on this note: There is in the report an admirable emphasis on the need to encourage community involvement and diversity in education. Yet the outpourings and the ultimate upshot of the report is that it strikes a cruel blow against countless parents who have given so much beyond their tax towards educating their children. 
In our decision not to vote for clause 66 which repeals the across-the-board approach, the Opposition is in fact helping the Government to keep its own promises. There is no doubt that last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was Leader of the Opposition went among the Australian community and convinced people that nothing would be taken away from the independent schools, their pupils or parents, but that things would simply be added onto in accordance with a needs basis. That is where the arguments of Government supporters are so facile and futile. On 2 May 1972 at Festival Hall, Melbourne, the Prime Minister, as Leader of the Opposition, said: 
We will not repeal or reduce any educational benefit which is already being paid. We will confirm any which are there already. 
In an address to the Catholic Luncheon Club of Melbourne on Tuesday, 20 June 1972, the Prime Minister said: 
The ALP has never voted against any Bill proposing Commonwealth aid for education and it will support any form of benefit already existing. 
Constantly we hear honourable members who sit on the Government side of the House talk about their mandate. In Labor's policy speech for the 1972 election the Prime Minister said that a Federal Labor government would allocate the increased grants for 1974 and subsequent years on the basis of recommendations prepared and published by the Schools Commission. I stress the word 'increased'. Clarifying this, the present Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  indicated to a delegation of the Australian Parents' Council in Canberra on 10 January 1973 that the 'base rate or "floor" of aid would be that applying in 1973 ($62 primary and $104 secondary) and that commencing in 1974 additional Commonwealth contributions would be made at a higher level than those applying in 1973'. It is said that there is some lack of clarity about the position of honourable members on this side of the House. On the contrary, there is a complete departure from promises made by honourable members on the Government side in this small but significant area. 
One of the main reasons why the Opposition is so insistent on these amendments is that the general undertaking which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had given to those involved in education was that people representative of Catholic education and of the teachers would have representation on the Schools Commission. We simply seek to guarantee this. It is true that many of the commissions which have been implemented prior to this one have not included such a broadly based involvement of community groups, but that is no reason why we should not, if you like, learn from the mistakes of the past or try it a new way when the cry is for increased community participation and a sense of participatory democracy. I find it very odd that the Acting Minister for Education, the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  says that our amendments would destroy the whole of Government thinking as to what the Commission should be when in fact one of his ministerial colleagues in this House only a few weeks ago said that the Government had quite seriously considered having a nominated Schools Commission in the way which the Liberal and Country Parties now are suggesting. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  said that the Government had chosen not to appoint the Commission in the way we are suggesting because, fundamentally, the Government found it too difficult to involve all the representative groups in the Commission. 
We are not perturbed by the fact that it is difficult to involve in the Schools Commission all interested communities in the education area. We are quite determined to find a way of doing this. I confess that it is a novel approach, but I would have thought that a new government might have been interested in novel approaches, particularly when there is such a widespread demand in the community for an involvement in the decision making process. I stress that this is not even, if you like, the ultimate decision making process. What we are talking about is a commission which advises the Government. We are not for a moment suggesting that this Commission should usurp the function of government. It is a commission which is appointed under an Act to advise the Government on all the important matters of education which are in its charge. The Government can pile up its experts shoulder high in its Department of Education or other relevant departments. We seek merely the adherence to this new principle of community involvement or participatory democracy, whatever one likes to call it. We believe quite sincerely that it is in accordance with the preferences and the general direction of the thinking of the Prime Minister as expressed before the election. As I say, we are not perturbed by the fact that it is difficult to find a way of doing this. We confess that some of the particularities of our proposal may have some awkward elements. 
The point was made by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  who preceded me in this debate that the majority of the Australian Educational Council was not in full agreement with what we seek to do. However, the point remains that right across all those who are interested in education there have been calls for representation on this body and those calls have been echoed recently. In the 21 November issue of the New South Wales Teachers Federation journal called 'Education' there appears an article which relates the experiences of members of the teaching profession and parents who came to Canberra to discuss this matter. They point out in their article that one member of the Australian Labor Party said that he did not think there would be any insuperable opposition to the appointment to the Schools Commission of representatives of the Australian Teachers Federation and the Australian Council of State School Organisations. That is to say, a member of the Labor Party told those who were visiting Canberra, some of whom were looking for representation on the Schools Commission, that he did not think there would be any insuperable objection to such a proposal. We have had the Minister for the Capital Territory saying that the matter had been seriously considered. Why will these 'honourable gentlemen not stand in this place and support the proposition which we have put in all good faith? 
We find it quite extraordinary that honourable members opposite would seek to destroy the whole of the Schools Commission Bill for the sake of something which they tried but found too difficult. That is what it amounts to, for we are not for a moment - we have been grossly misrepresented on this point - suggesting that we do not want to see established a schools commission. We want to see a schools commission set up in such a way that the communities involved in education have their participation guaranteed by this Bill. The Ministry can ultimately make the decisions. The Caucus insists on making decisions in many cases for the Cabinet, so why can we not see a bit of sense on this matter from honourable members opposite? But what came through clearly in this article which was expressing the feelings of one person who had come with the delegation of teachers and parents was that these teachers would think it monstrous that the Schools Commission Bill would be sacrificed because members of the Labor Party wanted to cut off their noses to spite their faces. We would remind honourable members that all our suggestions are in accordance with the thinking which the Prime Minister advanced when he was Leader of the Opposition in relation to what his Government would seek to do. Admittedly, we have added the element of the parents. He did not talk about seeking to include parents' representatives on the Schools Commission. We considered this seriously, conscious again of the difficulty of ensuring proper representation of parents' groups. We nevertheless decided that we should seek to ensure that parents as well as teachers, as well as the Catholic system, and as well as the Education Departments, should have guaranteed representation upon this body. Not for a moment are we suggesting that they would be mere delegates. They would have to exercise a full and proper role as members of a Commission advising the Government. 
We of the Opposition think it is very odd to hear members of the new Labor Government talking and harping about the role of experts when the community in this country, as are comparable communities all around the world, is crying out for a say in the decisions affecting the very lives of the people. There seems to be some sort of strange sneering approach implicit in some of the remarks of members of the Government - that there is something unworthy or improper about those who come here to represent their very broad and deep constituencies of interest, that there seems to be something improper about accommodating those who represent thousands of teachers, thousands and thousands of students, and thousands and thousands of parents. 
We seek a Schools Commission which guarantees these absolutely basic features.  We  are not suggesting that this approach would apply in every field. It is hard to compare a Commission, involved with every school child in this country, with thousands and thousands of teachers all over the country, and with thousands and thousands of schools - a body like that which could so easily get away from the groups for which it seeks to speak, to make policy for and to represent - with many other commissions which governments would set up. We are not suggesting that this would be a precedent for all areas. We do think that in this particular area, where the cry is for community participation, only a government which has some set of strange ulterior type motives would desire to see our amendments defeated. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has an inter-departmental committee been appointed by the Australian Government to work out the details of abolition of tertiary fees and the Commonwealth takeover of tertiary education. 
If so, (a) when was it established, (b) what are its exact terms of reference, (c) who are its members, (d) when is it expected to report to him and &lt;e) upon its completion, will the report of this committee be released. 
It is a strange thing that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  who has just spoken should complain about the Opposition's using the example of Britain or Canada or any other country. The reason why it is not the slightest bit strange for us to use the example of Britain is that the Labor alternative health scheme is based on the British and Canadian health schemes. It is not something that has grown out of indigenous Australian experience, practice and reform. If honourable members opposite want an authority for that, I refer to a discussion I had with  Dr Deeble  when I put to him the question: 'Would you say that it was a fair characterisation of the Labor scheme to describe it as an amalgam of the British and Canadian health schemes?' He said: Yes. I would regard that as a fair characterisation'. So, let us have no more of the Minister for Health or anyone else saying that we are drawing red herrings across the path because we are talking about what has happened in Britain to the kind of scheme the Government wants to introduce in this country. 
With every day a new delight opens up. We had the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the Press conference - at which, as the Opposition spokesman said, the Prime Minister was trounced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in the debate on the prices and incomes referendum - making it absolutely plain for the first time that he will completely control doctors' fees if he gets the power he seeks in the referendum. Is it not interesting? He will control doctors' fees, but he is not willing to say that he will control the wages and salaries of the rest of the Australian community. That is one of the things that make his whole approach in the referendum such a farce. He is not willing to say that he will control any incomes but doctors' fees - the fees of the hated doctors. One thing I have deplored about the way in which the Labor Government and some of its friends have conducted the debate is the way in which they have involved themselves in hate-mongering against so many people in our community. I admit that they have had to put up with too much in the way of unfair tactics from time to time from some people, but that does not excuse them of the lack of decency with which some of them became involved in the House. 
I also note another wonder of which we heard today. It is extraordinary how these things come out only bit by bit. The Minister for Health foresees the Australian health pattern as it emerges as leading to the situation where Australians will be treated by private practitioners in only 10 per cent to 20 per cent of cases. He has said that we will go in the direction of Britain and the Soviet Union in that area. An alternative scheme is being put up by the Labor Party. There is in Australia a scheme that has been reformed significantly over a number of years. It is a scheme which has had imperfections but which as a result of the reforms it has undergone during recent years, is widely regarded as one of the very best in the world. 
During a recent trip to the United Kingdom I described in detail to many people involved in health care there the scheme that is practised in Australian health care now, and the response I received was: 'You would not dream of moving from that kind of health care to the system we are trying to practise in this country, would you?' I said: 'No, we would not, but tragically the Labor Government is trying to force this scheme on to the Australian community'. One of the saddest features of the British health scheme - this is a great warning to anyone in Australia who talks of a Government takeover or a great extension of Government financing in the health system - is that if the Government becomes deeply involved in this area other people will move out of financing health care. 
In the United Kingdom less is expended on health care than is expended in Australia in total. In the United Kingdom the total private and government final consumption expenditure on health represents 4 per cent of the gross domestic product. Australia expends 5.7 per cent of the gross domestic product on health. So, we as a country expend far more now, before we move to the kind of proposals that are enshrined in the Labor Government's scheme. 
Quite. The Australian Labor Party's alternative scheme forces everyone into one Government fund by means of a compulsory tax levy. It lures and seduces the private hospitals into the Government's hands, with immense consequences to patients and doctors. It strikes at the heart of the doctor-patient relationship through the lure of bulk billing and free treatment. It is not, on the face of it, inexorably free treatment, but the lure of free treatment undoubtedly is there. What patient, when faced with the possibility of seeking utterly free treatment, will not fall for the lure which in the short term is attractive but which in the long term could easily cost him dearly? 
The Australian Labor Party's alternative scheme provides for a massive shift from the private sector to the public sector. In all, this is so strangely old fashioned in that it represents what I describe as the mechanistic thinking of the fag end of the socialist era. Why members of the Labor Party would seek to keep this fag end alight is almost beyond belief. Why they would socialise when the community cries out for individualisation is almost beyond belief. Why they would bureaucratise when people rightly say that we should humanise is almost beyond belief. Why they would monopolise in this area of intimate human relations when they cry out against it in the economic field is almost beyond belief. Why they would take away choice in this area when they rightly talk about the right of choice in the market place is almost beyond belief. 
Why, when the doctor-patient relationship is suffering under modern circumstances or losing something, do they suggest that we take away even that which it presently has? Why do they say that we should take away some of the few final threads that bind the patient and the doctor in what we describe as the doctorpatient relationship? Why when people in our community today - a modern bureaucratic society - feel increasingly powerless to make decisions that affect their own lives and when people feel distant from the decision making in society, they would take away decision making in this area is almost beyond belief. 
I suggest: Why not extend the right of choice to the final few who cannot exercise the right of choice rather than take it away from all in the interests of the few? Why not extend choice, private decision making and private involvement instead of taking that away from everyone in the interests of the final few who are still not covered by the present health scheme? This is a question of the power of the patient to affect his own health care. The power and the rights of the patient are at stake in the face of the alternative Labor health scheme. If the patient is in a personal relationship and takes out a contract for health care with someone he can see and to whom he pays fees - even if it is only a little - he can see what he is receiving and he has a stake in what he is to receive. When some of the individual's resources are involved or invested in his own health care by his own choice, people are made more human and are that much better and happier people, because they are involved in these important and intimate areas of human care and relationships. 
The concept of free medicine and free care can only take away the power of the patient to determine the quality and nature of his care. If we move to free care, as this scheme would have us do, we move to a situation where people inevitably become numbers on lists. People are numbers on lists in the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, one is on the doctor's list. This is the sort of thing that would have to happen here. One would be a number on a list. The patient's treatment would be egg-timed. The timer would be turned and out he would go. The tragedy is that people who are low down on the waiting lists and who could be waiting 2 years to 3 years to get into hospital turn to private practitioners. They take their ills to the private practitioner and they can obtain instant treatment if they are prepared to pay for it. Many of them, having paid heavily through the government scheme, of course, cannot then afford to take out further private insurance. They have not been able to afford insurance and the blow, coming as it does in the face of illness, is a heavy blow. So driving everyone more into the hands of the Government will ultimately mean that a few people who can afford it are going to do better than others. We say that the choice should be extended to all and that everyone should be given the same opportunity of private relationship and private choice. 
Another most interesting feature of the sort of system that the Government is advancing for our consideration is the practice of queue jumping. Those people who have a special relationship with someone in a Government department can jump a doctor's queue by weeks or days and can jump a hospital queue by years. This is a practice which surely we would all deplore. In a prosperous community like Australia, where we have pockets of poverty but where the overwhelming majority of people are becoming more affluent, we must empower consumers to make their own decisions. In the technical area, of course, the consumer of health care is not able to know precisely the details of the specialist or technical treatment that he is receiving, and here his relationship with his family doctor is important because the family doctor is, if you like, his health broker who acts for him in the market place of health. In the non-technical area of health care - in the service aspects of care such as the choice of timing, of location, of convenience, of comfort and of attention to individual preference, things which may well have decidely important therapeutic value - the patient can learn to exercise the sovereignty of the consumer. 
As I say, rising incomes are empowering more and more Australians to make decisions, are widening their resources and involving them in what we call the expectation of rising standards where they can demand better quality and more responsive personal services. The Government of course will always have to take action in areas of what we call public health. Not for a moment am I suggesting that the Government should pull out of these sorts of areas. Much of the sort of further reforms that the Liberal and Country Parties will suggest will be involved in the area of environmental and preventive services. But the Government itself - any government - need not produce, organise, manage and provide personal medical services as a virtual monopoly. 
I have talked of the notion of price and of free medicine. Price is no longer the problem in Australia that it was 10 years ago. There are very few Australians now who are denied the care they need because of price. Overseas research has shown that there is very little difference these days in a place like the United States between the medical care received by the low income earner and that received by the high income earner. I suspect that this is the case in Australia. We would need to be shown that the health care which low and medium to low income earners are receiving is deplorable by contrast with the care which middle and upper-middle income earners are receiving before we would be prepared to consider some of the issues which the Government is advancing in this debate. 
A further point I want to make is in the area of cost. The Australian on an average, ordinary income, whose wife works, will immediately pay more to get the type and quality of health care which presently he and his family are receiving in this country. If we take as an example the individual receiving the average taxable income which next year will be somewhere around $100 a week, and compare what he would have been paying under the present system with what he would have to pay under the Government's scheme, the compulsory tax levy .of 1.35 per cent, and, of course, the standard taxation rate which he faces in his normal tax burden, and add to that a private insurance contribution to provide him with, say, the intermediate standard ward care that he has grown used to, we would find that he would be paying at least $30 and probably a good deal more extra per annum just to receive next year what he is presently receiving. I stress that the example I have given is the family right in the middle of the spectrum in Australia. The Minister has made a great deal of an argument, without providing facts, that 3 out of 4 Australian families" would pay less under his system, but that is to say that they would pay less for what he is offering, which is standard ward treatment in a public hospital and, perhaps, in a private hospital. We say that the important point to make is that people should be able to go on receiving what they are presently receiving. They will not be able to do that without a further, costly private insurance contribution. 
As I have said, the whole theme of the Government's alternative proposal is to forget what has been done over so many years in the reform of the health care system in Australia, is to foist on Australia a philosophy which, as I have described, is part of the fag end of an old socialist era, is to be immediately more costly for the average family in Australia and is in the long term to lead to a rundown in total community resources devoted to health. I say finally that governments should facilitate rather than frustrate personal sensitivity in sickness as in health. 
Debate interrupted. 
May I make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker? 
Yes. The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  accused me of using inaccurate figures. I simply want to state what I have done. I requested the Parliamentary Library Research Service to give me the most recent figures available showing comparative expenditure in the United Kingdom and Australia and they were the figures from which I quoted. They were figures in Australia's case for 1970-71, and in the case of the United Kingdom for 1970. They are quite plain. Even the figures which the honourable member provided, which must be for a year other than the year to which I referred, still show the United Kingdom figure well below the Australian figure. 

 - Mr Chairman, it took until 1973- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That  the question be now put. 
The Opposition is pleased that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  has seen fit to accept these amendments. All that the Opposition wishes to say is that we trust that the Minister will live up to the indications in these amendments and undertake genuine consultation with the States and genuinely regard their views as expressed in the amendment to clause 5. As to the second amendment, which relates to new clause 6a, what is sought to be established is the role of Parliament in regularly overseeing all the work of government.  I  simply repeat that we are pleased that these amendments have been accepted. We thank the Minister for agreeing to these amendments and we accord support to them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
In relation to the working party established by the Australian Education Council on 13 June 1973 to study relationships between Commonwealth tertiary scholarships and State teaching studentships: 
who are its members; 
on what dates has it met; 
when is it expected to complete its work; 
will it be consulting with interested bodies such as the Australian Union of Students, and 
will he table its report when completed. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Will he table the discussion paper on student loans prepared by his Department in 1972. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has his Department found that over a quarter of those students who rejected offers of Common- wealth university or advanced education scholarships, in 1971 or 1972, gave financial reasons as the cause. 
What was the wording of the question, the response rate for each year, and the breakdown of replies. 
What steps have been taken to ensure the obtaining of satisfactory information on why students rejected offers of these Commonwealth Scholarships in 1973 and for subsequent years. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Will he table the 1972 report compiled within his Department on desirable changes to the Commonwealth tertiary scholarships schemes. 
Does the Prime Minister adhere to the view that in all circumstances recurrent payments to independent schools should be on the basis of relative need? 
It is interesting to hear the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  pleading for more time. It is quite understandable that he would. be pleading for more time. I think that we would be doing the same if we were in his shoes. I propose to analyse this theme of time because we were looking at the whole program of the Labor Government, elected by the people in 1972, in this Address-in-Reply debate. The Its Time' theme which was the bandwagon upon which Labor came to power in 1972 was a wonderful theme for that day. It carried all before it. Many Liberals, I think, could see the 'Its Time' bandwagon as a sort of steam train which was coming inexorably to crush them. In view of the tremendous build up of the theme &lt;at that time, it is something of a wonder that the Labor Party had such a narrow win when there were those pundits who were saying that the Liberals were going to be thrashed by vast margins. 
Yes, it does indeed, and in particular the people whom the honourable member for Petrie represents. This win in 1972, I think, was not begrudged Labor by many Australians. Certainly, most Liberals of my acquaintance did not begrudge Labor its win. Few Australians with any sense of fair play would wish to deny the Labor Party its chance. It would be ungenerous to say that there was no advantage to Australia in the change of government in 1972. I can say this, I think, for a number of reasons. It is good for governments and oppositions to play musical chairs, once in a while at least. I am not advocating the game of musical chairs as a constant preoccupation of the parliamentary process, but it is absolutely crucial that the people's music should be listened to by the parliamentary system. 
It is important for oppositions, even highly experienced oppositions like the previous Labor Opposition, to get some occasional experience of government. It is hard to take oppositions seriously if they have never governed, if they have never lived, as it were, in the kitchen when the fires are hot. The Australian Labor Party Opposition of course asked for opposition in so many ways for so many years. But clearly in this country it desperately needed some experience of government if it was to be taken seriously. Likewise, I think, we in the Liberal Party did have much to gain through being put out to grass for a period. It is undeniable that we had tended to lose that sense of conviction which elevates politics from a mean and a narrow activity into something noble. I think that all of us in the parliamentary system gain something from there being a change in government. 
Throughout the 1960s, a sense of despair existed among young people in particular. This despair developed about ever changing the government in this country. It led to the view that if you had a problem or a belief, no matter how desperately and keenly that belief was held, you just could not get Change, and that politics and the parliamentary system could not help you. That belief was never entirely accurate but it became more and more worrying, in particular because it led to the view that you had to break laws in order to change laws. This is a frightening doctrine. The point that I wish to make is that today nobody can run around saying in this country that one must break the law to change the law. The parliamentary system does still work. It can produce the goods. It is of great importance that the Westminster system should continue and should evolve because so many other systems of government are failing to produce the goods. The presidential system which had interested many Australians has been shown to have very grave defects. I think we are in for a resurgence of the idea of the Westminster system as properly and sensibly reformed. 
To return to the question of the 'It's Time' theme, the people said it was time for a change. The campaign was a clever one; it was a slick and rather flash campaign; but it was a limited campaign. The Labor Party talked of 'a change', not even 'the change'. It was hardly frightening stuff to all those people in the suburbs of Melbourne and Sydney who, as my friend from Queensland said, did not have the sense of Queenslanders, but this was what they voted on. They voted for a change - but to what, why and in what direction the change was to be were questions which were rarely uppermost in people's minds when they voted for a change. When the Government got going, certain things became clear to countless people who voted for a change. 
Again, it would be unfair and foolish to deny that many Australians experienced a sense of excitement in the early days of the Labor Government. Things did change. The people had looked for change and they were getting it. But, especially with a little hindsight, it became clear that even in those early days there was a lack of wisdom in some quarters. Wisdom* is a word which we do not hear much about in these days, but it is a word which I think should be reintroduced into the vocabulary of politics. It all began with the 2-man dictatorship established by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  for which he reaped a very early reward in the 'Murphy Affair'. If the Prime Minister had had the wisdom to include 'his friend',  Senator Murphy,  in a 3-man or a 4-man dictatorship, I venture to suggest that we would never have heard of any event called the Murphy Affair, and the Prime Minister would not have faced his first major crisis relating to his credibility in this country. 
What the Prime Minister and his Government then showed was that they were a body which was already showing signs of being hopeless at the management of men and hopeless at the real work of government. They were good, yes, but good at strutting and good at fretting, and hopeless at the hard work of government, that is, at getting people together to get decisions out of them and at drawing together people who did not necessarily like one another to fulfil some greater purpose than any one individually could stand for. 
Responsible management, man management, the government of men - call it what you will. They showed even in those early days that they were short in that area of skill. Australia's neighbours detected this pretty early in the piece. Anyone who went through South East Asia last year had to remark on a number of things. Incidentally, one of the things that is remarkable is that those regular trips which members of the Labor Party used to take through South East Asia suddenly dried up in 1973. Perhaps those members had too much to look after at home. But the back 'bench stream through South East Asia suddenly dried up. This was remarked upon in a number of parts of South East Asia. But our neighbours, our allies and our friends, particularly those in South East Asia, tended to feel that this new Government was treating them as sort of stepping stones for its strutting on a wider world stage. 
I believe that the Prime Minister also showed a great lack of wisdom in those early days in governing without restraint and in governing without Caucus. That is to say, the 2-man dictatorship was governing in a quite unnatural way without the constant surveillance of the Caucus which in the 'Labor tradition demands a full say in every decision of government. That is fundamental to the history of the Labor Party. 
No government, especially a Labor government, can govern without restraint. What happens when a government attempts to govern without restraint and when a Prime Minister in a democracy acts as a dictator in a 2-man dictatorship is that the Prime Minister builds expectations - great expectations - which he cannot subsequently live up to. As I have already remarked, we had change. Sometimes one wondered whether the change was for the sake of change or was in accordance with a real philosophy of life and government as it applies to this country. 
My friend the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr Mackellar)  has used the forms of this House to point out that in one area at least that of the new national anthem, the flash ideas of the new Labor Government have proved to be wanting of wisdom - as though we can create a new national anthem by competition. This is an absurd proposition. Whoever heard of creating through a competition something which embodies the whole spirit of a nation? Anyway, for my part, anthems are really largely things of the past. There are occasions for anthems. Let us have 'God Save the Queen' on appropriate occasions. Let us have 'Advance Australia Fair'. Let us have anything you like on an appropriate occasion. 
But there are very few occasions today when anthems are appropriate. As has been pointed out, we do not have a statutory anthem anyway. The Prime Minister can arrange to have played anything he likes at any function he likes. He can have 'Knees up Mother Brown' if he so wishes, he can have 'God Save the Queen', or he can have 'Waltzing Matilda'. Let him have them and we will judge and the people will judge his wisdom. 
I do not know how many millions of dollars this Government is spending, but it is spending dollars and dollars and dollars of your money and mine on a survey to discover attitudes to Australia's national anthem without even giving us the choice as to whether we would like to persist in what some regard as that funny old anthem 'God Save the Queen'. There is no space in the questionnaire for people to express any preference for God Save the Queen' or anything else. One suspects that in this area, as in many other areas - and I would like to have a day to go through them - that the philosophy was change for the sake of change, or on the other hand, change in this exciting socialist direction! 
When the people voted us out and put this Government into office people could have been forgiven for thinking that perhaps the Liberal Party and its country cousins, the Australian Country Party, were the old fashioned ones and were the parties which were formed on old fashioned philosophies and run by tried old men and so on. One could have been forgiven for thinking that if one looked at the general themes of political debate in those days. But in field after field it has become clear that the bids which this Government has put in in the field of old fashionedness have far outbid anything which the previous Liberal governments could offer. This must come as a surprise to many Australians. The Labor Government has indulged in a quaintly old fashioned belief in its version of socialism for this country. This has been evident in so many fields. 
It has been evident in a nasty little bit of policy in the area of education where a whole lot of possibly good work flowing out of the Karmel report was destroyed by a nasty little bit of old fashioned socialist and class warfare ideology. The Government has taken a nasty little blow at the wealthy schools. There has been no talk about justice for the poor parents, or the relatively poor parents, who happen to send, or struggle to send their children, to certain schools. Now we know that the Government's whole education case is fraudulent anyway, because the Government has tried to have the Australian people believe that all grants should be on the basis of relative need. But where the Government stands in the shoes of a State government and makes payments to independent schools in a territory, in addition to giving money on the basis of needs as set out in the Karmel report the Government also is giving a per capita across the board equal grant to every independent school in its area of responsibility. 
This is also the case in the field of health where there was a tremendous opportunity for good work to be done by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  We have had some interesting developments in this field. One has been the idea of evolving various sorts of health centres. This is a splendid idea and it meets today's needs. But why should it destroy all of that with some revolutionary scheme fathered from other countries in the area of health insurance in a national health program? 1 would now like to move into another field - the more general field of the style and method of government. This is the system of open government about which we have heard so much. I see that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table, is smiling. He is a past master in the field of style of governments. As a matter of fact, I heard him described by one of my colleagues in a delegation overseas as of a wonderful new Australian style in his own right - a sort of new breed of Texan Australian. We have this Government preaching about open government. But what does 'open government' mean as it is practised by the Labor Government in this country? I believe that all it means is that you open up all the secrets of the old Liberal Government and tell none of your own. I cannot see anything much more than that in the Government's approach. Also there is the question of leaks. I thought that the previous Government was troubled by leaks. One of my colleagues even had occasion to talk about how the Cabinet in our day leaked like a ruddy sieve. Today the present Government leaks like a ruddy cloud; it comes down in thunderstorms. We are completely enveloped day after day and week after week by this Government which governs by leaks. We only had to put up with the odd leak; they govern by leaks. 
That is another important point. The Government does not tell the people its policies. It does not take the people into its confidence and discuss reasonably as rational people what Government ought to be doing. It suddenly announces to the people what it will do. The Government has done this in countless fields. For example, this has been the experience in the field of arts. The Government has done it again and again to the States in almost every field that one can think of. This is all right, I suppose; this is the flash new way of governing. But in certain areas it has had tragic consequences because this Government has alienated person after person and group after group in the Australian community. So many of the people it has alienated had the highest hopes for this Government, and for the country in the hands of this Government. That makes it all the more tragic. It has alienated doctors deliberately and has sought to destroy the name of doctors in our community. It is now searching out and destroying health funds. It latest ploys in that field could be aimed only at destroying the workings of the present health scheme and the health funds into the bargain. 
The Government has had its shots at business men. One understands that. I hope that when we get back into government shortly we will resist the temptation to trade blow for blow against unions. It is odd to go into a Minister's office in this place and find the cheap party political slogans about those people in the community whom that Minister happens to dislike or even hate. One expects the Government to have a crack at the Americans, the Brits and so on, but who would have thought that it would have alienated Aborigines, and who would have thought that it would have alienated those refugees who sought refuge after the last World War in Australia where they could find a home safe from the knock on the door in the night, the secret police and the footsteps in the corridor? Who would have thought that we would have had to wait until 1974 and a Labor Government for Aborigines to be given twice as much money as ever and to be half as happy with their lot? That is the sort of alienation we have seen. 
I was most fascinated tonight to hear the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  assert that funds provided for education on the recommendation of the Karmel Committee were in addition to funds which were already being expended on education in this country. I was fascinated because this was precisely the point that we in Opposition made again and again at the end of last year when the Government came up with proposals which made it clear at that stage that it no longer accepted the proposition that money provided on the Karmel recommendations should be in addition to the money that was presently being paid. The point is that, prior to the 1972 election, the now Minister for Education and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had solemnly promised to the people of Australia on platform after platform in words spoken and in words written that assistance in this area, in particular state aid, would be in addition to current commitments and expenditure which was already Commonwealth expenditure. Tonight and, indeed, this year, we have heard the Minister for Education revert to this principle which he avowed before the election but which he deserted or was possibly forced by this Party to desert last year. We did everything we could to hold the Government to its promise that Karmel recommended funds would be in addition to those funds which were presently being expended on education in this country. It has become clear only in recent days that this Labor Government, where it has a primary responsibility for education, is in fact pursuing in an almost literal and perfect sense what we would regard as a proper policy for education. That is to say, there is a basic across the board grant to every pupil in every independent school in its areas of basic responsiblity. Where the Commonwealth stands in the shoes of a State Government in respect of territory schools, it is paying a territory grant on an equal per capita across the board basis. 
We applaud this. Karmel recommendation or not, the point is that it is precisely what we had avowed was proper policy and which your party,  Mr Minister,  was not prepared to pursue. It let you down, as we would see it, on the question of aid to every pupil in every independent school in the country. 
Now they are getting it but only because of action we took in this House last year to keep the Government to its promises which it had made solemnly again and again before the election. It is fascinating to find the Minister for Education now going back to his principles. Good luck to him, and may he stand by them in a way that he was not able to stand by them last year. Last year the Government deserted that principle. It deserted the principle that Karmel funds were to be in addition to all expenditures currently being undertaken. It is some embarrassment, obviously, to some hoourable members opposite, that the Government is prepared to pursue sound policies, which the Liberal Party and Country Party would support completely, where it has a basic responsibility for education. 
We would not for a moment wish to see one cent taken away from the schools in the ACT or the Northern" Territory where there is this across the board grant to every pupil, and more to those who need more. Not for a moment would we suggest that this is an improper policy. What we do suggest is that it runs entirely counter to the general proposition which the Government has sought to make about its policy on the one hand and our policy on the other hand. The Government would have us believe, as the Prime Minister admitted at question time the other day in this House, that in all circumstances recurrent grants to independent schools should be on the basis of relative need. That led the Government to the proposition that some pupils in some schools should ultimately be cut out of all aid. Now the Government is involving itself in double talk or, to put it more precisely, it has a principle in practice which it denies in the statement of the principle. We believe that we must take exception to the statement of the principle. The principle in practice, whereby the Government has a primary responsibility, is one we could only support and applaud. 
When did he do that? 
Are you suggesting that the Victorian Government does not want any Commonwealth money for education in Victoria? 
We have just heard from the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  a tissue of fabrication and some of the most remarkable misrepresentations that I have ever heard from a person involved in public debate anywhere, let alone in this House. This urgency matter arose in the most innocent and natural way last week when people who had been involved in meetings with the Minister's advisers in recent days were listening over the air to the proceedings of this House and happened to hear the Minister say certain things. Basically what the Minister said in this House is that his advisers went on their own to conduct negotiations with representatives of private hospitals and that in effect what they did was not the work of the Government, had no relationship to the aims and desires of the Minister and was their own work. On hearing the Minister speak in the House, at least one of the gentlemen who had been present at negotiations with the Minister's advisers told me that he turned to the person who was in the room with him and said: "The Minister just lied'. People who have subsequently read the Hansard record of proceedings in this House last Thursday and who were also present at meetings with the Minister's advisers have also said: 'The Minister lied'. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  as you are aware I did not say that the Minister lied. I said only that those who listened to him speak and those who have read reports of Hansard said that he had lied. I am quite content- 
This is a highly important question, but I will not disobey your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am content to say that the Minister has been involved in the most elaborate and fantastic tissue of misrepresentation that I have heard coming from anyone in this House, with the exception of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in recent weeks. The real question which we face is whether, when the Minister's advisers went out and held various negotiations and discussions on various days with representatives of private hospitals, they did so with the approval of the Minister and whether they were putting the Minister's points and the Government's points and proposed amendments to the Government's scheme on behalf of the Government, or whether they were doing it on their own behalf. It is of extraordinary importance that a document entitled 'Amendments to Universal Health Insurance Program' which was presented to various people with whom the Minister's advisers had discussions makes certain statements. Interestingly enough, in views of the dates we have heard cited by the Minister, it is dated 20 March. Paragraph 1 of this document states: 
The Government intends to re-introduce the Health Insurance Bill within the next few weeks. 
It then mentions the objective of the Bill. Paragraph 2 of the documents begins: 
The Minister is prepared to amend the present program to allow those who prefer private treatment to 'opt-out' of the Government fund and to offset payments to private insurance funds against their liability for the health insurance levy. 
The paragraph then goes on to itemise what this would mean in practice. This document states as clear as the burning daylight that the Minister is prepared to amend the present program. Everything that we have heard from the Minister today on this point makes the Minister misrepresent the position as we have it here in black and white in the document from which I have quoted and which was prepared by the Minister's Department. The document states that the Minister is prepared to amend the present program to allow people to opt out of the Government's proposed health scheme. 
Yes, the day after. There cannot be an accident there. One wonders whether the Minister has not been involved in misrepresentation on yet another point, and that in fact the second reading speech which was prepared a fortnight before incorporated the amendments which the Minister's advisers were putting to representatives of the private hospitals throughout this country. I say throughout this country' because let no one say that we are dealing with a few odd sods and bods here. The Minister and his representatives were dealing with the top representatives of the great private hospitals of this country. There is another point on which I believe the Minister is, in fact, misleading this House. He constantly talks of 'my adviser,  Dr Deeble'.  But in fact it was not only  Dr Deeble,  who is in a sense a personal adviser though he is clearly now a public servant, who was involved in discussions; a most senior member of the Minister's Department was also involved in discussions when the proposed amendments were to be put to the private hospitals by the Minister's representatives for the Minister, on behalf of the Government. 
I have little time left to me but let me deal with a couple of other denials, which the Minister has made today. He said,  on the question whether the Government offered an air fare, that the representatives of the hospitals sought the air fare. Of course they sought the air fare. Do you know why,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? It was because they had been called to the meeting by the Government, not the other way round. That establishes beyond a shadow of a doubt that they were called to the meeting by the Government and not, as the Government would have it as in the Minister's speech in this House last Thursday, that proposals were made to the Government which led to this meeting. It was the other way round. The Government made proposals to these people. 
What about the question whether a bribe was offered by this Government - this Government which is steeped in the most sordid behaviour that 1 have ever witnessed in Australian politics? What about the question of the bribe which is supposed to have been offered? Today the Minister was asked in the House: 'Was a bribe offered that you would introduce a fourth table of benefits if your amendments were agreed to by the private Hospitals?' 'Not at all', said the Minister. I have been told that that too is a lie- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! 

I am sorry. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  it was a most natural slip, and I apologise. I am prepared to use the terminology 'misrepresentation'. But the point is that the Minister's personal adviser said to one of the senior representatives of the private hospitals of this country: 'If you agree to these amendments, then you will get the fourth table'. That has been stated by a representative. 
I find it most interesting that the Minister felt that he had to rise on that point. I see that my time is almost up. Therefore, in conclusion, let me say that this whole sordid affair involves a desperate attempt by this Government to save a failed health scheme. The Government has become involved in deception and deceit and disloyalty to its advisers in the process of trying to rescue itself from the failed scheme. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has tonight attempted to make up for the fact that when the Australian Labor Pary as part of the 'It's Time' campaign threw a $50 a head dinner, he was not invited to be the guest  speaker.  They were fussy on that occasion. We have heard an after dinner speech tonight by the Minister for Services and Property which, to be charitable, rivals some of the best efforts of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I was fascinated by the Minister's comments about political friends and political enemies and the disposing of friends and enemies in Australian politics. I remind him tonight that when I was walking alone in the House of Representatives rose garden, I ran into the Minister for Services and Property and he said: 'How are you going Tony? Taking a walk with all your friends?' I should like to point out to the Minister for Services and Property that that is how he will be walking on this side of the House after the election which the Government by its acts in this country have succeeded in bringing about. 
Let us look at this myth in Australian politics about the disposal of political friends or enemies by Prime Ministers. It is of course important for Prime Ministers to be able to promote or elevate to other places those people who have made a significant contribution and who would wish to pass their later years in some quieter place. The Prime Ministers, in the Liberal tradition, have understood the good sense in this as Prime Ministers in every country always have. It is a time-honoured tradition in politics that a man who has given his life to public service in the parliamentary arena is altogether entitled to spend his last years in some other place. The notion that  Sir Robert  Menzies in particular used this method of appointment to cut down his enemies within the Government or the Liberal Party is patently absurd. It has been said by  Sir Robert  Menzies himself in more than one place that such a proposition is patently absurd. When one considers the people who left this House or the other chamber to take up other posts it is clear that  Sir Robert  Menzies' purpose was far from the notion of disposing of potential threats to his power as Prime Minister and Leader of the Liberal Party. Did Lord Casey,  Sir Percy  Spender and  Sir Garfield  Barwick go for that reason? In all cases like this the proper view is that the Prime Minister of the day expressed some surprise, though no consternation, that these right honourable gentlemen wished to go to other places. They were in no sense threats to his power or authority and, as I say, it is one of the great myths of Australian politics that these people were cut down by Prime Minister Menzies. 
It is mischievous and absurd. It is true that in some cases people who have worked for a government and who have served under a Prime Minister year in and year out feel that it is wise not to live in the shade any longer. Inevitably such a man is sometimes living in the shade and takes himself off, properly, to other places. But let us note one or two important features about the way it was done by Liberal Prime Ministers in this time honoured tradition of promoting members of Parliament out of this place to other places. First of all.  Sir Robert  Menzies promoted his colleagues. I cannot say that in every case they were his friends, but he promoted his colleagues. The point is that Prime Minister Whitlam has promoted an age old enemy. Prime Minister Whitlam has not only promoted an age old enemy and one of the bitterest enemies he could have had in the Australian political system but he has promoted this age old enemy in order to destroy the normal democratic processes of this country. 

 Mx STALEY- I thank the honourable member for that interjection because I was about to go on to make the even more important point that it was the way it was done which was so wicked. Never before has any Prime Minister of this country so stealthily, so unnecessarily and so unpleasantly executed such a political deed. Let me put it this way: When Prime Minister Menzies or any other Liberal Prime Minister appointed people to ambassadorships they were appointed as ambassadors, but everyone would have regarded them as ambassador designates until they actually received their credentials in the countries to which they were posted. What did the present Prime Minister do? Let us look at this because this is the background to this great event on the eve of an election which this country is facing. The events were simple and few people foresaw as the drama unfolded what was about to happen. It appears that on 14 March the approval of the GovernorGeneral to the proposal for an ambassadorial appointment for  Senator Gair  was obtained. What the Prime Minister would have us believe is that as of that day  Senator Gair  became our ambassador to Ireland. It is worth remarking that when on a later date a member of the staff of the Leader of the Liberal Party went to the telephone and by a simple act telephoned the Department of Foreign Affairs and inquired of that Department: 'Who is our ambassador to Ireland', the answer was plain, simple and straightforward. The answer was:  Mr Brennan'.  This was after 14 March, the date on which the Prime Minister would have us believe  Senator Gair  became our ambassador to Ireland. 
The Prime Minister.  Mr Whitlam.  It is some of the most disgraceful behaviour that this House has ever seen by an Australian Prime Minister. And then the Prime Minister gave the lie to his actions by, on 21 March, himself signing an Executive Council minute in which it was pointed out in point No. 3 that the date of the appointment was to be announced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  and he had not by that date, 21 March, announced the date of the appointment. But the Prime Minister would have us believe that  Senator Gair  had become  Mr Gair  on 14 March, an earlier date. The whole thing was revealed only last week in this Parliament, about 3 April, when the enormous difference between the interpretation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and that of the Prime Minister became clear to this House and to the Australian people. The Prime Minister was asked today whether he had advised the Governor-General to request the Governors of the States to issue writs for 5 Senate vacancies in each State and in particular whether he had requested that 5 writs be issued in respect of Senate vacancies for the State of Queensland. The Prime Minister made this request to the Government of Queensland. 
The Prime Minister was asked today whether, because he was of the view that on 14 March  Senator Gair  had disqualified himself from membership of the Senate, he had then taken up his pen and penned a note to the Governor-General requesting a further writ to allow for the appointment of a further senator for the State of Queensland. The Prime Minister was asked whether on 14 March or any day after, he had requested the Government in Queensland to appoint an extra senator for that State. The Prime Minister refused to answer because, if he had answered that question, whatever answer he gave would have been unsatisfactory to him because it would have revealed the duplicity of his approach in this House in recent days. Clearly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs had made it plain that in no sense at all had  Senator Gair  ceased to be a member of the Senate on 14 March. 
I do not want to delay the House any longer on these events which led to this crisis in the democratic process of this country where the Prime Minister by his action and his colleagues by their actions brought us to a situation in which it was necessary for us to put the question to the Australian people. It has been said - my colleague and friend the honourable member for Moreton has put the view - that it is not in accordance with the best principles of parliamentary democracy for the Senate to exert this role. I want to make it quite plain that I agree with him completely that, if the Senate is going to put this House out to grass, there is every reason why we should consider the proposition that members of the Senate should go out to grass at the same time and be prepared themselves to face the electors who they rightly say in accordance with their powers ought to be given the choice as to which parties should govern in this country. I make it plain that there is a large measure of agreement between the honourable member for Moreton, myself and many of my colleagues. 
I turn now to another proposition. One of the great problems of governments in the 20th century - it grows greater every day - is the power of the executive government over Parliament. Let us take a case. If the Prime Minister of Australia had decided that the circumstances were ripe for a double dissolution and had gone to the Governor-General, after setting up the parliamentary processes which would have enabled him to call on the Governor-General, would we have heard a cry of rage from anyone in Australia that the Prime Minister had no right to go to the Governor-General to bring about the early demise of this House? I think not. As long as the Prime Minister of Australia has power to do this as the head of the executive government, why should the parliamentary processes of Australia not have the countervailing power to that which the Prime Minister has? I am aware that there is a novelty about the Australian Constitution. There is that novelty because there is a novelty about this country. No other case fits the Australian case. As my friend the honourable member for Moreton has expressed it, there is all the difference in the world between the powers of the House of Lords- 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer to his description of the measures that the Treasurer announced the night before last as 'part of the program'. Was the program to which he was referring originally intended to be an anti-inflation program? If it is no longer to be described as an anti-inflation program, what is the aim of that program? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I ask: Will he stop bringing genuine attempts at wage restraint into mockery and disrepute by calling upon the States to do that which he is not prepared to do himself, namely, to cancel salary increases granted as much as 7 months ago? 
We are debating the National Health Bill which is designed to arrange for the transfer of the present system of Australian health insurance to the Australian Labor Party's scheme. We are also debating the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill, the Health Insurance Levy Bill and the Income Tax (International Agreement) Bill, which provide for a health insurance levy of 1.35 per cent on taxable incomes of taxpayers. This, I would stress, will involve taxpayers who presently do not have to pay a separate or individual amount in paying an amount towards their health care. We are moving away from the notion of the family contribution to a system where all taxpayers who have certain incomes will have to pay 1.35 per cent of their taxable income for health care insurance. 
This levy was originally designed to be approximately 40 per cent of the cost of running the scheme. The rest was to come from general revenues. Inflation has made a mess of that percentage, though we are unable to state with any exactness the present figure it represents. The previous  speaker  in the debate made the extraordinary statement that in Australia there is no choice of doctor. He described the notion that there is a choice of doctor in Australia as a fantasy. I ask him to address his poor mind to a simple matter of fact - that he and anyone else in Australia is legally and administratively and in every sense free to consult any general practitioner in this country. Providing that he belongs to a health insurance fund - that is nearly everyone and we regret that it is not everyone and our policy would have everyone in the voluntary scheme - he is entitled to the treatment by and the care of the best specialists Australia can produce. Common sense and experience tell people this. 
It is clear that many individuals from time to time have trouble with individual doctors - getting them out of bed at night and so on and so forth. We all know about that sort of thing. But to conclude from such odd cases, even if they be not as isolated as we would like them to be, that there is no choice of doctor in this country is a fantasy of a most alarming kind. People who can believe that sort of thing are precisely the sort of people who are thrusting upon Australia a health insurance scheme which can only destroy the first-class health care which most - if not all, regrettably - Australians receive. 
If there are faults in the present health scheme they should be identified. One of the things I would have thought a government which had come fresh into office after about a thousand years in the wilderness would want to do would be to isolate precisely the areas of real need in health care. If it had set about doing that sort of thing it would have had tremendous support from those of us who occupy the Opposition benches. For instance, we should know whether there are significant groups and where those groups are in Australia who are missing out on health care services. If they are missing out on health care services we would co-operate in solutions to this problem. But to move from the basis of generalised observations and doctrinaire considerations about how health care ought to be delivered, to a massive scheme to change the whole basis on which the great majority of Australian people receive their health care, is an extraordinarily alarming procedure for a government to take in this age when the ideologies of yesterday ought to have died. 
We in Australia are in the very happy position of having a typically Australian solution to the problem of health care. I would say that there is a sort of ad hoc genius about the Australian when he looks to the solution of problems. In particular, we have developed in the Australian community a health care delivery system which is both public and private, which involves a mixture of private and public contribution, and private effort, relationship and involvement and public effort, relationship and involvement. 
The Australian Labor Party, instead of noting the way the system has evolved, particularly in the last six or eight years, is seeking to turn the clock back to days before this evolution in Australian health care took place. It has rushed through the last few years of Australian history as though they did not exist. It has not opened its eyes and talked to people involved in health care about what, in fact, has been going on. It has taken a sort of Frank Sinatra approach to its journey through Australia's recent history - talking to no one, singing its own song certainly, but talking to no one. If the Government had talked to anyone it would have noticed that certain features of its scheme are in high disrepute at the moment in other countries, in particular of course in the United Kingdom. 
Let us take a lock at the situation in the United Kingdom, the system which this Labor Government with this levy as part of its health scheme would have Australia move towards if it had its way. Of course we on this side of the House hope that the Opposition in the other place will have sufficient wisdom to reject the Government's proposals. If one looks at the United Kingdom what does one find? One finds that the patients are on lists and that there they do not have freedom of choice of doctors. 
They are not on lists here. One is free to take one's name off a doctor's list and go to another doctor. That is an indisputable fact. I addressed my mind to this' matter before. If the honourable member had been here he would have heard the point I was making. 
That is not true either, as the honourable member knows. The situation in the United Kingdom is that patients are on lists. It is very difficult for patients to get off their doctors' lists and onto another list unless they go private. The tragedy of nationalised health care is that it hurts precisely those whom the scheme first of all means to help; that is it hurts the poor and the low income groups generally. In the United Kingdom a poor person is left to the public provision of health care services. In Australia the great majority of the population is not left simply to the pay of the public purse. The ordinary, average Australian has some private involvement in his own health care. The point is that if a patient in the United Kingdom needs an operation which is serious but is not highly urgent, then the waiting list extends for 1, 2, 3, 4 and up to 5 years. This sort of situation does not occur in Australia and we must make sure that it never occurs. But this does happen to the patient in the United Kingdom who is on the public purse and in receipt of what is called free health care. 
However, if that person has private insurance or if he can pay privately for the operation - it is, of course, desperately expensive - then he can get treatment from a specialist, from a doctor or at a hospital within weeks. Last year when I studied these matters in the United Kingdom I had case after case brought to my attention of people who were on the free list under the nationalised scheme and who had been told by a doctor that they would have to wait  2i  years for treatment. So their families got together and raised the necessary resources. Within weeks the patients were receiving the care and the operations which they needed. The central issue in all this is the power of the patient. If we move to a situation where the relationship is basically between a government insurance office, a government department of health and a doctor then, of course, instead of there being some financial and fiduciary relationship between the doctor and the patient, this crucial nexus is broken. Private relationships remain important in this area of community life. They will always be important in this area. 
The old-fashioned dictum that he who pays the piper calls the tune applies in this as in  30  many other areas. If there is no close relationship between the individual who is in receipt of health care and the doctor- regrettably, perhaps, through a financial relationship or a contract for services rendered - then the relationship loses much of the merit which it otherwise would have. The doctor becomes a bureaucrat; the patient becomes a number on a list. That is the situation which we seek to avoid in this country. Tragically, that is the situation into which we in this country will plunge almost overnight if this insurance levy, which is the core of the Government's scheme for the ultimate nationalisation of health care, takes off. Then we have the displacement of the present relationships which, I admit, in some cases, are not all that they should be. We have a sort of relationship between doctors and the Government instead of a relationship between doctors and patients. We have a mistier, a more distant and a more bureaucratic relationship replacing the close individual and personal relationship which is so important. There is no merit in putting politics in this way into the relationship between doctors and patients. That is what the Government is doing. The scheme will end up relying on the electoral processes of this country. The generosity of politicians and of the electorate will be relied upon to provide extra resources to keep the scheme running. There are grave doubts about whether those inexorable electoral forces in fact would provide the extra amount which, under a nationalised scheme, would be needed to keep the system going. In these days it has become more important than ever for there to be both public involvement - certainly significant public involvement - and private involvement in this area of welfare. The community simply will not pay through the nose, through the taxation system. Governments will not vote sufficient funds in this highly generalised way through general revenues. To sum up the argument that he who pays the piper calls the tune, I say that this demoralising approach of moving towards a nationalised scheme with levies and relationships between governments and doctors instead of between patients and doctors has 2 basic consequences. Firstly, it has a consequence on the power of the individual patient to determine both the quantity and the quality of his health care. In particular, it affects the poorer patient. Secondly, there is the effect which I have noted on the power of the health care system to raise sufficient funds to do the job properly. 
I come back more precisely to the health care levy. Originally this levy was recommended to be 1.25 per cent of taxable income. When the Government's advisers went to work it was no time at all before it was 1.35 per cent. There is no guarantee that a Bill will not be introduced into this Parliament to raise the percentage further. In approximately 2 years this matter will come before this House again, anyway. There is something fraudulent about suggesting that this is to be the contribution for health care delivery for patients in this community. It would be more honest of the Government to decide that it would move to funding through general revenue. At least one would know where one stood. It is regrettable that many Australians are not yet fully apprised of what all this means. They are not aware that the 1.35 per cent of taxable income will provide only for public ward treatment. So the average taxpayer, in addition to paying 1.35 per cent of his income to this Government through the levy, will want to take out extra private insurance if he is to continue to receive not better treatment but simply the same level of treatment as he is presently receiving. One can conceive of the average taxpayer in this country - the average family man with 2 children - on a conservative estimate being up for something like $100 extra, or probably more, over and above the insurance levy which he has already paid to the Government fund by way of an insurance levy. 
In short, people will have to pay more for less - more money for less services; more money for less quality of service; more money for less choice; and more money for a scheme which has no obvious advantages and which is falling into disrepute wherever it is in existence around the world. The worst crime is that it takes away the power of the poor to have the quality of treatment they deserve. It also takes away the power of the patient to be a determining influence in the sort of health care he or she receives. 
I will not speak for more than half a minute. 
Yes, it is a real half minute. I want to stress the fact that very important questions have been asked by the Opposition spokesman on social security matters of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and I very much hope that the Minister will answer those questions. 
-My question is to the Treasurer. I refer to the latest available detailed taxation statistics, those on income breakdowns for 1971-72, which he tabled with the Budget papers. Is the Treasurer aware that these figures show that the 10 per cent property tax surcharge is like the Robin Hood principle operating in reverse in that the poorer the taxpayer the more reliant that taxpayer is on unearned income? Is he aware that only the top 3 per cent of taxpayers are more reliant on unearned income than the poorest taxpayers of all? Is he aware that his tax figures which, because of inflation, are more favourable than reality show that Australian taxpayers in the under $10,000 a year income group will pay the penalty tax on 2 times as much income as those in the income group over $10,000 a year- this is, $850m unearned income is received by the poorer taxpayers - 
-We are debating the Budget and tonight we were treated to an exposition by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  of changes which he and some of his colleagues in one of the Caucus committees have decided should be made to the Budget. We did not get any announcement from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or from any Minister at all. We got the announcement from a private member who happens to be a member of a Caucus committee. 
I am delighted to hear that. Now we have secretaries of Caucus committees running the country. It shows that the Australian Labor Party is a very democratic party when the Prime Minister and the Treasurer have opted out. Even Jimmy whose package it was appears to have opted out of this one. Decisions are now being made and announced by Caucus committees in this House. I congratulate them on adopting the practice of announcing decisions in this House rather than announcing them first to the Press although, of course, there would have been a liberal sprinkling of the news to the Press over the last couple of days. 
Here we have a Government which has completely abdicated the making of decisions about vital matters affecting every individual in this country. That is what is going on. That is what the decision over the 10 per cent levy on unearned incomes is all about. The Cabinet has not yet been asked to make a decision on the decision of the Caucus committee to change the Budget within 9 days of that Budget's being solemnly presented to us as one of the most crucial in Australia's history. Nine days after the Budget was presented a major change has been announced to this House by the secretary, I understand, of a Caucus sub-committee. This must be one of the greatest abdications we have seen of policymaking in this Parliament. I have certainly never heard of a Budget being treated like this by any government in the history of this country. 
Having said that, I want to say that I halfapplaud the Caucus sub-committee for having more sense than Spigelman and his colleagues, whose tax it evidently was, for the tax was a spiteful tax- Spigelman 's spiteful tax. It was a tax which was deliberately designed to hurt certain sections of the community- those sections being the wealthier so-called property owning sections of the community. The tragedy is that the tax does not on any proper analysis hit the rich or the property owning sectors nearly as hard as it hits the poor in the community, the low income group. There is no question about this. The figures that the Treasurer himself presented to the House on Budget night which give us the latest break-downs of income and tax payable at various income levels in 1971-72 and which are now out of date- but they are the latest available- prove the point. Those figures show that the Spigelman tax accepted by the Prime Minister was part of a spiteful package designed to buy union support for this Budget in return for a degree of wage restraint from the unions. This spiteful Spigelman tax in fact does not display Robin Hood at work; it is Robin Hood in reverse. What they planned to do was to put Robin Hood in reverse by hitting the great majority of taxpayers far harder in terms of income affected than the very few very rich who happen to inhabit this community. This tax will hit those earning under $10,000 far harder than it hits those earning over $10,000 in terms of aggregates, and of course those under $10,000 have not quite the fat which can take up the problem when an extra tax is put upon them. 
We have heard tonight from a Caucus subcommittee that the Government is going to change its mind on this crucial element of the Budget designed, as I said, to buy the support of the unions with a spiteful attack on those who hold property or who invest savings or who have deposits in banks, those who have been struck down by an industrial accident and have invested a compensation sum, those who are widowed and have a little bit of money that they can invest. Those are the people who are hit by this spiteful tax. We have been told tonight that those on incomes of up to $5,000 will be exempt and those on incomes between $5,000 and $5,500 will pay only part of the extra 10 per cent penalty tax. This is what we were told will be agreed to by the Caucus in due course and the Cabinet when it gets around to considering the change of policy which Caucus has tonight made for the Government. What this will mean on the 1971-72 figures is that those on incomes under $10,000 but above $5,500 will still be taxed on $3 16m. I repeat: Those whose incomes are between $5,500 and $10,000 on 1971-72 figureswhich I stress are the latest figures available, but out of date- have $3 16m worth of unearned income. They will be paying the 10 per cent surcharge on that $3 1 6m. 
This spiteful tax, which the Caucus committee would amend, is hitting those whom we were told by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer ought to get relief. Because their incomes are $10,400 or $10,500 a year, their income tax needs to be cut. We are expected to accept the proposition that there should be tax relief for people whose incomes are up to $10,500, but no tax relief for people whose incomes are made up from savings, investments or deposits in banks, which for so many of the poor and cautious in our community earn pitifully low interest. People who are fearful of investing in short term securities because they fear a lack of security are driven to deposit in banks, thus earning interest on which they would be paying that extra 10 per cent surcharge. It defies all the senses of reasonable people to comprehend that when this country needs hard work, investment and confidence, a government could hit at the very idea of investment in this country and in the future of this country. Whatever further tinkering is done with this tax, it will remain an arbitrary tax which illustrates the old-fashioned ideology of the Labor Party. It will remain a tax which is economically absurd, which has regressive elements in it and which ought to be rejected out of hand by any modern government in touch with contemporary thinking. It could have come only from the fevered imagination of people who in desperation barely knew what to do to get themselves out of the hole that they had dug for themselves. 
-We are told that the author was one of the Prime Minister's staff, a  Mr Spigelman,  but the Prime Minister and the Treasurer must accept responsibility for it. Did the Treasurer, for instance, inform whoever made the decision, whoever wrote the Budget - 
-The Treasurer told us that it was Jimmy's package. He described the Budget as Jimmy's package. I do not know- Jimminy Cricket or Jimminy who? Whoever Jimmy is, he ought to bear responsibility for it. But the Government has run for cover, and the Caucus sub-committee is left to carry the baby. The Caucus sub-committee has told us what the Government will do. This is the way things are done these days. Let us look at what the Government did plan in the context of the Budget. What was the Budget designed to achieve? We were helped considerably by the Press of this country to understand the idea behind the Budget. We were given ample opportunity to follow the tortuous ways of thought of members of the Government and their advisers, Spigelman or whoever else they were. It is said that this Government leaked in the run up to the Budget. When we were in office and leaked, at least we used a sieve for those leaks. This Government does not even use a sieve, it just leaks. 
-We had some respect for the proprieties. Honourable members opposite do not even use a sieve. They have no idea. I can recommend the remedy of the former member for Wentworth,  Mr Bury.  A sieve would do perfectly well to retain a modicum of secrecy in the performance of this strange, fascinating, wondrous Labor Government. We were told that the Budget- Jimmy's package- was designed to get support from the unions for the idea of wage restraints. What is wage restraint? That is a rather new idea as far as the Government is concerned. We have not heard much about wage restraint. When parliamentary salaries were in issue there was a rush, of course, to grab proposed increases until the Opposition managed to use the Senate to get the idea of wage restraint accepted. 
Some honourable members on the Government side have been crying all the way to the bank. We are told that restraint was the background of the thinking of the Government when it formed this Budget, and that to get restraint the Government had to show that its heart was in the right place by kicking the rich, by hitting the middle class, by taking over the community with the long arm, the tentacles of Government, and by socking the rich. Or is it soaking the rich? I am never sure. It is 'soaking' from some and 'socking' from others. Whether it is 'sock' or 'soak' does not matter. The Government's attitude was that if it hit the rich it would gain the support of the unions for its Budget. But more important it thought that if it hit the rich in the Budget it would win support for wage restraint. So there was to be a conference of unions. It was announced, indeed trumpeted, by the man who thought that by now he ought to be leading the Australian Labor Party in this House. I refer to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke.  He trumpeted loud and long about how this was to be the most significant union conference of all time- the most significant in Australia's history following the most significant Budget in Australia's historybecause it was going to solve the problems of the economy. So we had the run up to the conference. What happened at the conference? We had had all the spite; we had had the Government takeover of the private sector; we had had the greatest increase in government expenditure in Australia 's history. 
-We had the peddling of lies. There is so much that is wondrous that I am afraid I am overlooking some of the crucial features of this country's strange modern history. 
The unions met. There was never really any serious consideratioin of the idea of wage restraint when the unions actually met and got together. What did they say? They said: 'If the Government would do this, that and the other thing, we would be prepared to consider wage restraint. In particular, if the Government would come clean on tax cuts, we would be prepared to consider wage restraint. If the Government were prepared, say, to index the tax scale so that the Government would not take a terrible slug at us with each succeeding year of high inflation, we would consider wage restraint'. They saw through this Budget the way the great mass of the Australian people have seen through it. They have seen through this Budget and seen it for the sham it is. They, the unions, are like the great majority- in fact they are the great majority- of the Australian people. They know that they do not want a government which is going to take over from them all the power ultimately to make decisions which affect their own lives. They know that a government which takes more and more dollars from people through this escalating tax slug in times of inflation is taking from people the power to make decisions. They know that dollars are decisions- dollars are the decisions of individual people. The unions know that as well as members of the Opposition side of the House know it and that is why they have rejected the idea of wage restraint. They rejected it because they were presented with a Budget that had spite and old fashioned ideology and nothing else besides. It is a budget which is neither fish nor fowl nor good red herring in terms of their problems- a Budget which I am afraid is rather more than fish or fowl or good red herring in terms of the country's problems. So, faced with this sort of Budget, they said to the Government: 'No dice'. We have heard no more about this epoch-making conference of the trade unions of this country. 
It is a rather strange thing that we have leading this country at the moment a Prime Minister who is, as it were, still the Leader of the Opposition. In a very important respect the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is still the Leader of the Opposition. He is strutting the world stage. He likes strutting the world stage much more than the Australian stage because there are problems here. 
Gough goes well overseas. He is on his way again. For 3 weeks out of every four for the rest of the year the Prime Minister will be overseas. 
Oh, he goes tomorrow morning. I thank the honourable member for Bowman for reminding me. Obviously the honourable member is very keen to see him go because as soon as. he has gone it will give Jimmy his chance, and we are all watching with great interest. 
We look forward to next week. I am sure that the honourable member would know better than I what is in store next week. 
So the honourable member will not be here. As I was saying, we have a Prime Minister who is the leader of the opposition. He is leading the opposition to everything that this country holds dear. He is leading the opposition to what we call the Australian way of life. He is leading the opposition to the great middle class of this country, and we are the most middle class nation in the world. Everyone in Australia thinks he is middle class, or almost, and everyone in Australia aspires to a certain way of life, to certain values. There is a basic decency about the Australian people that cannot be perverted by any government, and in particular will not be perverted by this Government. This Government is leading the opposition to 
Australia's defences. It is leading the opposition to the rural community. It is leading the opposition even to something as nice as foreign aid. It is leading the opposition to the idea of the self determination of peoples around the world, as in the case of Timor and as in the case of the Baltic states. The Government holds out no hope for some of the values that it was so hot on before it came to office. Frankly I feel sorry for Government supporters. They hoped a lot. They led people to expect a lot. There was a lot of goodwill towards them. I think it is sad that they have come to this sorry pass. 

 -Mr Speaker, we are debating a matter of public importance introduced by the Opposition. It reads: 
The need for complete withdrawal of the Government's proposed surcharge on property income. 
This tax, which has been described as a 1 per cent penalty tax, appeared in the Budget. We believe that it was conceived somewhere in the kitchen cabinet, maybe in Spigelman's scullery, but certainly somewhere in the reaches of the kitchen cabinet. Having been conceived there, it was castrated by Caucus last week but today, throughout the whole of the country, we are in a state of total confusion about what the Government does or does not intend with this 10 per cent tax. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  came into this House after dinner last Thursday night and stated that the recommendation which the Caucus committees were making about the 10 per cent surcharge would go to Cabinet and to Caucus. He said that he had no doubt the proposal would be accepted. I quote: 'I have little doubt that the decision of the Committees will be accepted by Cabinet and Caucus. 'Little doubt'. He comes into the House today and says that it was a recommendation. It is just as well that he said it was merely a recommendation, for it is entirely unclear just what the recommendation was. The honourable member said in the House last Thursday night that he spoke with the expressed approval, the concurrence, of the Treasurer. He stated: 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has authorised me to make this announcement: A joint meeting of the Caucus Economic and Trade Committee and the Welfare Committee, of which I am the Secretary, was held today with the concurrence of the Treasurer and with his agreement has recommended - 
He then went on with the recommendations. What has been widely believed in the Australian community and in the Press to have been the recommendations is that taxable incomes of up to $5,000 per year would be exempted from this surcharge on unearned income, but in fact if you read on and find what the Treasurer authorised him to say, this is what the honourable member said: 
The proposal of the joint meeting of the Committees is that income from property of under $5,000 a year will not attract the 10 per cent surcharge. 
The honourable member for Chifley- the ghost of Chifley- when he put this proposition to the House did not make it up as he went along. He read it out, and that is what he read out: The proposal of the joint Committees is that income from property of under $5,000 a year will not attract the 10 per cent surcharge. Somehow or another it got across to the Press that it was a level of taxable income of $5,000. Now, what in the hell is it? What is this Government doing to the people of Australia? This Government is leading the opposition to the people of Australia; that is what it is doing. It is leading the opposition to the great majority of the decent people of this country. We have before us the latest illustration not only of the confusion of Caucus, of Cabinet, of the Government of this country, but we have an illustration of the way in which Caucus and the Government are leading the opposition to the Australian way of life. 
This measure is bad on at least 4 grounds. It is bad on the ground that it hits at saving and investment. I do not care where they draw the line, because it will still hit at saving and investment. Even the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has been quoted in newspapers over the last few days as saying that the only real way out of inflation is for Australia to produce her way out of it. What does this Government do? It produces a tax which hits at production because it hits at investment, it hits at saving, and in today's climate a tax which hits at saving and investment is a despicable tax in view of the needs of this country. The second point I would make about this tax is that it is Robin Hood in reverse. The Government has put it to the people as a tax which robs the rich and pays the poor. In fact it is Robin Hood in reverse because it will hit the poor harder than it will hit the rich. It will hit the poor harder than it will hit the rich in terms of aggregate amounts which will be taxed, and it will hit the poor, the saver, the person on a modest income, quite directly. If the Government wishes to hit the rich, let it have the guts to raise the level of direct taxation on the rich. Surely that is the way to hit the rich if that is what it really intends, not to produce a general tax which hits both rich and poor and indeed, as I have said, hits the poor hardest. Let the Government have the guts to produce taxes which effectively hit the rich, because the rich are paying the great burden of tax in this country. The top three per cent of taxpayers, on the latest figures available, pay 23 per cent of tax in this country. So there is not much more you can get from the rich without completely destroying them and making them poor too. 
The point is that even if we accept the modification, the tinkering with this tax that Caucus may or may not be proposing to the Government- nobody knows what they are proposing, as I say- we find that for income earners on between $5,000 and $15,000 a year-and I have to go on the latest available figures which are the 1971-72 figures produced by the Treasurer with the Budget- the amount that will attract tax on unearned income is $522m. The rich-and for argument's sake we will take those getting $ 1 5 ,000 a year and above as the rich, and somebody might question that- will pay tax on an amount of $ 184m. So the tax hits the $5,000 to $15,000 a year group three times as hard as it hits the $15,000-plus a year group. It is a tax, then, which will take much more from the middle-income earner and, as originally proposed, would have taken still more from poorer and poorer income earners than it will take from the rich. This makes a very strange device in what is intended as a tax which slugs the rich and helps the poor. 
-The Sheriff of Nottingham. This tax also makes a mockery of the Government's claim that it has reduced taxation on those whose incomes are up to $10,500 a year. It has boasted about the reduction of tax in that group. You are a little above the group,  Mr Speaker;  you are doing rather better. What the Government is doing here is, in a sense, robbing Peter to pay Paul. No, it is worse than that; it is more than robbing Peter to pay Paul. It is a case of that which the Government gives it takes away, not once or twice but three times. The extra tax which the people of Australia will pay to the Government this year vastly overreaches the modest deductions which the Government is allowing to the taxpayers of this country. 
My final point is that this is old-fashioned ideology at work. It involves an invidious comparison of classes of income. It is based on fundamental old-fashioned Marxist premises. It invokes propositions that there is a capitalist class and a proletariat. It divides the Australian community down the middle but, tragically, it does it in a most cruel, a most ineffective, a most uneconomic, a most disgraceful way. 
-We are discussing at present the estimates for the Parliament. There has been some discussion in this debate about the role of the Press in transmitting the proceedings of Parliament and of politics to the community. I must say that I find myself gravely troubled by some of the remarks which have been made by some honourable gentlemen about the Press. It seems to me that the attacks which have been mounted in the Press in recent days have a most unsavoury element about them. It is true that the Press sometimes gets politicians and Parliament wrong. We do have some means of redressing these wrongs, although perhaps not enough. But I find that the atmosphere of attacks on the Press which has been created has most worrying authoritarian overtones. There is legislation around which, if implemented, would have the gravest consequences for the freedom of the Press and in particular, of course, for the freedom of commercial television in this country. 
It is fair to say that honourable gentlemen should have a concern about some of the features of modern mass communication. There are matters in this area which should trouble us all. The trivialisation of so much of politics should trouble us. The tendency of much of the media to rely on the creation of a sort of psychological climate where personalities are more important than policies and issues should worry us. The way in which the media often seems simply to appease baser psychological instincts in individuals should worry us. But we must never forget that it was the Press that saved the day as far as Watergate in the United States of America was concerned and it is the Press which can do as much and I am afraid to say very often more than we in this Parliament can do to prevent Watergates in this country. 
In so many ways the Press has taken over the role of opposition to the government in our community, in the modern Western political community. I do not deplore- indeed I applaud- the role that the Press has played in taking on the role of opposition to governments because this is a proper function of a Press in a democracy. What I find to be tragic is the way that those of us who sit in Parliaments have allowed the Press to take over from us the predominant role in safeguarding the rights of people in the modern community. In so many ways- and this comes up every time we debate the estimates in this Parliament- we seek to get democracy on the cheap, and if we seek to get democracy on the cheap we will get cheap democracy. We give our Parliament the puniest of weapons with which to tackle the bureaucracy for this is where the problem lies today. The great threat to people is not so much that they cannot read books or that they are not given religious freedoms, but that they just do not know what is happening and have insufficient means of redress when that which is happening is bad. 
We fight battles with people who know so much more than we do as members of Parliament. All of us know a bit about something and some of us know quite a lot about a few things. But not many of us know anything like all that a Parliament would need to know in the interests of the people if democracy is to function properly in our society. The problem in this battle involving the vast reaches of modern government and bureaucracies- and I say this in no disparaging sense in terms of bureaucrats because this is a modern phenomenon which has been written and spoken of by many people- is that Parliament is being left for dead. Parliament basically still works along lines which were drawn up fundamentally in an earlier century and in particular, of course, in the 19th century. So Parliament in 1974 is fighting the bureaucracy with the puny weapons of the 19th century, and this just will not do. 
I was delighted to hear the comments made by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in particular. He isolated some of those things which need to be done if Parliament is to come into the modern era. As I see it many issues are simply not amenable of solution in party political terms. We are too often too party political in this chamber. The very chamber itself creates on some issues the wrong sort of atmosphere. It puts us out of touch with reality- out of touch with the reality of the community which we should be serving. The very geography of the chamber can create conflict when it would be better if conciliation were the order of the day. A gladiatorial sort of atmosphere is created when it would be better if we could sit down and seek to reason together, seek to know, to examine, to understand and to come up with answers. 
I can well understand the weariness that so many people in the community have with us as politicians because we seem so often to be too party political. Their weariness is understandable because when we stand in this place and when we work as members of Parliament we should be Australians first, members of Parliament second and members of parties third. This is where the suggestion made by the honourable member for Wannon is so important. When legislation is presented to us, for instance, we should not always seek to fight over it in the chamber on our feet; we should take it out of the chamber into a different atmosphere altogether where we can sit down and seek to understand and reason together. We can only do this if we are provided, of course, with procedures and also with assistance. Without people to assist us, without experts to advise us and without the opportunity to question people who would come before us we will not achieve the desirable reforms mentioned by the honourable member for Wannon. This is a matter which goes beyond any party which happens to be in power for the moment. 
It is hard to talk any government into agreeing to such an arrangement, and that makes it all the more important. I come back to my basic theme. It is the government and it is the bureaucracy which has everything going for it. It is we in the Parliament who have the puniest of weapons with which to challenge the government. It needs to be said again and again that Parliament is not the government. Parliament creates a government. Out of Parliament a government is elected, and fundamentally the Parliament's job is to scrutinise, to attack and to criticise the government, to provide an alternative. But above all it is, if you like, to be an opposition to the government of the day. 
It is in this area that one often despairs when we come to discuss the Estimates and we find that the resources simply are not voted to enable us to perform our tasks properly as members. People in the community might well say that it is a matter of perks and privileges for members of Parliament, but it is so far from that that it is not funny. It is a matter of the rights of people; it is a matter of bringing people back into the democratic process. Unless we reform and bring the whole of the parliamentary procedures up to date it will not be we who will suffer; it will be the people. 
-Honourable members in this House always enjoy listening to the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  While I would disagree fundamentally with many of the points he made I am convinced that he is driven by a genuine desire to help. Although we on this side of the House would regard his philosophies as quite wrong, I do not think for a moment that we would doubt his sincerity. I take the last point he made in which he referred to Miss Stone, her needs and her suffering. The point about this so-called compensation legislation which the Government has introduced is that it does not take account of individual needs and suffering in anything like the way that has traditionally been conceived in compensation legislation throughout the world. I will come back to that during my remarks. We maintain that in this Bill we see an entirely wrong approach to problems which rightfully we should be considering. The problems which we should be considering concern anomalies and inadequacies in both injury and sickness compensation and assistance throughout this country, and that is not to be denied. We would seek to do something about that. But the proper approach is to consider these anomalies and inadequacies and to propose appropriate and achievable and costed remedies. 
The first thing to be said about this National Compensation Bill is that it is not a compensation Bill. It does not set up a national compensation scheme. It does abolish present compensation schemes and with them the rights and remedies which exist throughout Australia. This Bill is frauduently titled because it abolishes compensation schemes in the States and destroys the very concept of compensation in the new Canberra legislation. The Bill provides for assistance to those people who have been injured or who are ill. It provides assistance which is in some cases greater and in some cases less than what is at present provided in the States. It provides assistance which is related to earnings in the case of total and permanent incapacity but which is in no way related to individual earnings or skills in the case of permanent partial incapacity. With little exception as for cosmetic injury, it never provides that a person can be one whit better off financially after an accident, however grave, however painful, however destructive of everything that can make life worth while. A person 's life is all but destroyed by an accident and this Bill says: 'I will give you as compensation all the earnings that you had before, minus 15 per cent'. This Bill says: 'You can keep your battered and broken body but I will take away 15 per cent of your previous earnings and I will take away your right to get a single cent more in any court in this country'. 
This is what honourable members opposite call a compensation Bill. It is not even a minicompensation Bill. It is a minus compensation Bill. What does the word 'compensation' mean? It means: To make up for or to recompense suitably. The provisions of this Bill in no way make up for or recompense suitably injuries to individuals because this Bill in virtually every case leaves people worse off than they were before their accident, unless of course that which is destroyed in the accident is a person's property rather than his person. This Bill leaves us in the astonishing position that we can sue those who destroy our property but we cannot recover from those who destroy our person. If our cars are written off on the roads we have a remedy in the courts. If our kids are almost written off on the roads we no longer have a remedy in the courts. So here we come back to the sensible philosophy of this minus compensation scheme. It is a social welfare assistance scheme. It sets the seal on the socialist view of people as simply the products of their environment. It abolishes personal care and personal responsibility. It wipes its hands of any concept of personal fault. The following statement is made on page 1 of the Woodhouse report: 
Yet there are still those who point to the fault of individuals as the basic cause of accidents. 
This makes plain and sets the seal on the whole socialist theme of the Woodhouse report and this Bill. 
The Bill enshrines the socialist philosophy that I am not my brother's keeper; Big Brother will keep us all.This is not to say that there is no area in which the no fault concept should apply. It can apply alongside actions for negligence which provide for personal care as in Victoria where in the motor accident field a no fault scheme exists alongside an action which lies in a court of law for negligence. In other words, there can be basic universal no fault assistance schemes which take care of the immediate needs of people plus a limited but genuine compensation scheme- compensation in the proper sense of the word- which perseveres with the basic human proposition that we are responsible for our own actions and that we are responsible for one another. We would do well to consider the immense potential social cost, for instance, of absolving an employer from the costs of his duty of care to his employees. We would do well to consider the immense potential social cost of absolving the supplier of goods or services to an unsuspecting public from his duty of care for the quality of the goods and services which he is delivering to the unsuspecting public. To me it is horrifying to consider the cost of the Woodhouse philosophy in simple human terms, for people everywhere are crying out for a society where people are bound together by a sense of personal responsibility, where they care for one another and where personal relationships matter most. This Bill substitutes for personal relationships care by the State in a bland, overall but not altogether ungenerous way. Some of the provisions are generous- so generous that we have heard no proposals from the Government about how it will cost them. 
I want to make some other points about the Bill which I believe are as important in many ways as the central philosophy which in my view is basically and unfortunately very nearly rotten to the core. There is a massive shift from the State to the Federal sphere involved in this proposition. Honourable gentlemen who belong to the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party might say: 'That is all right by me', but their colleagues in the States have different views about this. In evidence before the workers compensation inquiry  Mr Batt,  a Labor Minister in Tasmania, had this to say at page 1 13 of the transcript: 
These days we talk increasingly of participatory democracy and that only has meaning if people in communities are allowed to govern themselves and to influence the quality of their lives and the quality of the life we live in Tasmania is presumably related to the sort of judgments we make about compensation. 
Again at page 1 12 he says: 
If everything is determined by an umbrella organisation then the people of this State - 
That is Tasmania -  and the people of Western Australia and so on will feel that they are no longer effectively governing themselves and they no longer have an opportunity to vary from what is standard. Perhaps it could be argued that the people in this State ought to make a judgment about how far their workers compensation ought to vary or be more adequate than other States. 
He made it quite plain in the hearings that he was against the Commonwealth moving in and taking away the basic, grass roots involvement of State governments in this fundamental area of human endeavour. 
There is also a massive shift of another typethe massive shift from the private to the public sector. Everywhere one goes these days people are crying out for a re-invigoration of the private sector of this country, a private sector that has been driven to its knees by Government policy and by other factors which can only lead one to believe that if this sort of Bill were implemented even over the extended period allowed for, which was mentioned in the Minister's remarks, it would lead to a further and most massive shift from the private to the public sector. If this Bill were to be put into effect over a 10-year period the investable capacity of the insurance industry, which as all honourable gentlemen know and as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  noted last weekend plays a basic part in the whole economic wellbeing of this country, would be reduced on one actuarial estimate by $4,000m. This could only have the most dire consequences for the productive capacity of this country which the Government, to its credit, is starting to stress at the moment. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  dwelt at some length on the question of the cost and the funding of the scheme. I believe that this is where the Government gives the game away. It is simply not prepared to come to this Parliament and to the people of Australia and tell them frankly how it would fund this scheme. The Treasurer has instituted an inquiry to see how, and presumably whether, the Government could fund such a massive, new form of Commonwealth expenditure. We have not yet heard from the Treasurer the results of his inquiry about how he would fund this scheme. It is surely the height of irresponsibility for him to go on and on playing Father Christmas, pretending to give presents to people, without telling them how long are the strings attached. That is the sort of perilous situation this Government is putting before the Australian people. The Government is saying: 'We will give you the goodies, but we will not tell you how we will pay for them'. Because the Government is not prepared to tell the people how it intends to pay for the scheme and because it will not be prepared when the time comes to lift either indirect or direct taxation to the requisite level to pay for the scheme, the quality of care provided under its bureaucratically dominated scheme inevitably will suffer. I grant that there are many costs at present in the way compensation claims are worked through in this country. But those costs which I would hope we in the Government of this country could reduce are one of those penalties which one pays for the basic philosophy of the right of people to take their case to court and to seek recourse in the courts of this country. One has to pay the cost of these sorts of things. What we are offered as an alternative is a government which would take all the burden of the cost unto itself but not tell us how it would pay. That ought to be enough to make it clear that this Bill is so bad that it should be withdrawn and redrafted. 
It should be withdrawn and redrafted- chucked out, if you like- and a new Bill brought forward which takes account of - 
The honourable member has commented that the Woodhouse report is a disgrace to judicial inquiry. The Woodhouse report, as the honourable member rightly states, is an utterly ideological document. It is a socialist panacea. It does not purport to be an objective and careful assessment of the facts which spells out alternatives and comes out to conclusions. From go to whoa it tells us that we have to do it the way it has been done in New Zealand, the way the socialists would do it. That is why it is rotten at its heart. Everybody knows that there is a world-weariness with that sort of approach to individuals and their care. Communities will not bear the costs. If personal responsibility is not provided for, then the quality of care in a community must suffer. 
The Government is giving us part of an afternoon and evening to consider this most momentous legislation. It took 6 or 7 years before a similar scheme even got off the ground in New Zealand. Yet we in this country are told that we have to put our scheme into effect overnight. This is the way the Labor Government goes about its business. This is why the Labor Government has been brought to its knees in the Australian community. This is why the country is very nearly economically grovelling. Yet the Government tells us it will give us more presents but will not tell us what they will cost or where it will get the money. This is a government that can only destroy virtually everything that makes community life in this nation worth while. The socialist solution is as dead as a dodo as far as any reasonable person is concerned. 
For the Government to go on with this scheme would be an utter indictment of its good sense, its judgment and almost everything for which it stands. I believe that some honourable members opposite would wish to do a better job. I would hope that now it has been shown by the Opposition that the Bill is not a compensation Bill but a new social welfare Bill the Government will consider the consequences of that and consider how a proper compensation scheme could be developed in this country so as to take away the anomalies and inadequacies of the present approaches to compensation throughout this country. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Urban and Regional Development 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 4,292,000. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask: Does the Prime Minister recognise that persons on lower or middle incomes will in fact pay more tax this income year than last year because all economic indicators, including the Budget- the official Budgetmake it clear that average income earners will receive salary increases of at least 25 per cent this year? In particular, is he aware of the fact that his family man who has been on $ 100 a week will not have a tax saving this year but will in fact pay $51.64 more in tax on the modest assumption that his income will rise by 25 per cent? 
-We are discussing the States Grants (Schools) Bill which makes grants to the States for recurrent and capital expenditure in education. Before getting on to the main themes of the Bill I would like to ask the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  why it is that in at least one State, the State of Victoria where the State's priorities committee on building projects recommended to the Schools Commission as early as March this year figures which were, I understand, approved by the Schools Commission, no money has yet come through to the schools. Why is there this delay in the money coming through from Canberra? We hear a great deal about how the States and the schools do not spend the money that Canberra lavishes upon them, but what I would like to know is why this money has not yet come through to the schools even though, as I understand it, it was approved as early as March of this year. 
This Bill gives one an opportunity to discuss the funding of schools, and in particular independent schools, in this country, by the socialist Government. The socialist government made its intentions in education, in one particular area, clear with the introduction of the recurrent per capita grants system which had so many flaws in the actual formula that many Australians were led to conclude that it was indiscriminate and unjust inasmuch as the formula for grants to pupils was based on schools rather than students; it was based on the needs of schools rather than on the needs of parents. 


-I understand that there are recommendations going back to March which were approved by the Schools Commission and no money has come through. 
-You have not approved them then. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the now desperate need for confidence in business and investment, will he seriously consider abandoning for the time being- I stress the words 'for the time being'- his capital gains tax proposal because it is a tax on inflation which acts against investment? 
-We have just heard one of the great speeches of this session by the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes). 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Chipp's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-The Committee is discussing amendments which the Senate has made to the National Health Bill (No. 2 ) 1974. As the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  has made clear, the Senate once again has shown that, far from being obstructive of democracy, it is safeguarding democracy in this country by holding up hasty legislation. It is serving precisely the purpose which the Senate was intended to fulfil. It is about time that those who have an interest in democracy stop knocking the Senate in this most desirable aspect of its functions. 
Here again we have a classic case. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)-  I pay him credit- and the Government have accepted the wisdom of what the Senate has done with respect to this Bill. What the Senate did was to sort out the good from the bad in the Bill. It discarded that which was bad and kept that which was good in that legislation. That which was bad has been mentioned by my colleague and by others. That which was bad relates fundamentally to part ofthe Labor Government's desire to destroy the non-government health funds in this country in pursuit of its objective of a socialised health scheme in which all Australians would ultimately participate. 
The Minister for Social Security made some comments about the emotionalism of this debate, but he himself was somewhat prey to this when he talked about one of the disgraceful features of the private health funds. I think that in a way that single word he used when describing the non-government health funds gave him away. He did not say 'unfortunate' or 'worrying'; he said 'disgraceful'. That is his Government's approach to the non-government health funds. They are seen by the Government as disgraceful. That is why the Government has set out constantly to discredit them. That is why in the Bill that the Senate has amended we felt it was necessary to take away from the Minister powers which he was seeking to give him ultimate control over the non-government health funds. If he believes they are so disgraceful no honourable member could look very happily at the sorts of power which he sought in the Bill which the Senate was sensible enough to carve up in this fashion. 
I do have some sympathy with the Minister's point of view about the bluntness of the weapon of total deregistration of the funds. It does seem to me to be an extraordinarily blunt weapon to use where there is a disagreement between the funds and the government. Under circumstances in which the government of the day was not making war on the non-government funds, I would be perfectly prepared to countenance legislation which enabled arrangements to be made between the government and the funds which gave the Minister sufficient powers to ensure that what was being done was in the public interest. But in the prevailing debate, which is about the way the total health scheme of Australia is to be conducted, I am afraid that to take such a position would be a luxury. 
The Minister was simply seeking powers to enable him to destroy the non-government health funds which had, along with all other organs of the medical and health care professions of this country, refused to countenance his health scheme. That is the crux of this matter as it has been the crux of so many of the debates on health which have taken the time of this Parliament and which, indeed, have taken the time of this country for so long. The Opposition remains adamantly opposed to Labor's socialist health scheme. We remain adamantly opposed to Labor's health scheme for a number of reasons. Not the least of those reasons is the fact that the health scheme holds out the illusion of free medical and hospital care, not just for the very poor but for all Australians. Labor's scheme would undoubtedly reduce the quality and increase the cost of health care in this country. 
In the manner in which government is conducted Australia faces a parting of the ways between those who believe that one can go on and on expanding the public sector and those who believe that the constant emphasis upon the use of general taxation revenues and the expansion of the public sector will lead to a collapse of public service such as social welfare in this country. We in the Liberal and Country Parties take the view that what is needed in Australia is a mix of public and private expenditure in all these crucial areas of social welfare which are so near to the hearts of Australians. If the responsibility for the provision of these services is placed solely upon governments, governments simply will not find the funds to pay for them. The community will lose control over the services it is receiving and individuals will cease to have sufficient responsibility for their own care and welfare. 
The whole notion that medical services can be received free of cost leads the community to use those services to the point where finally everything is incredibly costly. We believe that the Labor scheme and the action proposed by the Minister which, as I say, he has been good enough to forget today in this one respect in the face of the reality of the Senate amendment, would reduce the personal responsibility and the freedom of choice of the individual regarding doctor, fund, ward or hospital. The Government says this is not so. All these freedoms, the Government keeps assuring us, will be preserved. But such a view is an illusion, as unreal as the lure of free health care. 
When the centralised bureaucracy takes control of the relationship between doctors and patients and when it absolves the patient from any responsibility to pay anything and makes its arrangements directly with doctors it will inevitably evolve bureaucratic rules and regulations for its own convenience, as all government organisations always do have. Cost controls will become difficult to administer and costs will get away from us further. If there is one issue that is going to be of crucial importance in the next generation of health care in this country it will be the control of costs. Patients will be prescribed to certain doctors who will be instructed eventually to develop patient lists. The dedicated care of health professionals will be hemmed in by government bureaucracies. Waiting lists at hospitals will lengthen. Perhaps the saddest thing of all is that those who Labor says it seeks to help will be bit hardest of all. These are the low income people who are treated in the public wards of hospitals today where they now have priority- pride of place. Under Labor's scheme the doors of the public wards and the public hospitals will be open to all comers; all of those who can no longer afford private insurance will be knocking on the doors of those wards and asking for admittance simply because they will no longer be able to afford private hospitals or private wards. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)The  amendments do cover a variety of matters. 
-The point is,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that this is highly relevant because the Minister has assured us that he seeks to see the private health funds continue and we believe that the Bill which has been amended by the Senate makes it clear that ultimately the Minister seeks to destroy the private health funds if they do not serve his purpose. That is why the remarks I have made are so relevant. The private health funds must be seen in the context of Labor's aim, which is to destroy non-government health insurance in this country and to destroy, therefore, patients' freedom of choice- the choice of funds, of doctors and so on. 
The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Will he bring up to date the information supplied in his answer to question No. 905 (Hansard, 22 October 1973, page 2472) asked by the former Member for Wentworth. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask: Why did the Prime Minister tell the Australian Labor Party conference at Terrigal that he hopes that the South Vietnamese Government will be ousted before the next Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party? Why does he in that way now encourage the massive invasion and aggression by the North against the South in defiance of the Paris agreements which he welcomed so fulsomely 2 years ago? 
-I was delighted to hear the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  say that the Government does not claim that the scheme known as Medibank is a free scheme because in one sense he is absolutely right. It is not a free scheme. We, the Australian people, will have to pay for Medibank. An independent actuary recently estimated that the cost of Medibank to the Australian people through general tax revenue would result in an increase of approximately 7 per cent in personal tax rates in a full year. That is not the total cost; that is the increased cost to the Government of this country. 
It is the increased cost to the Government and the importance of that is that the Government is at the same time promising to lower taxes. The Government cannot have it both ways. It cannot lower taxes, on the one hand, and promise on the other hand that it will introduce a new health insurance scheme called Medibank which will cost every taxpayer the equivalent of 7 per cent more in his personal tax. It has all been worked out by an independent actuary and the figures are available to the Government. If the figures were subject to challenge we would by now have heard a devastating attack from the Government on them but it has not challenged the figures which an independent actuary worked out for the Australian Medical Association which of course has a vested interest in this question. It has a vested interest in providing and continuing to provide good health care for the Australian community, and the Australian community is fortunate in having a medical profession which has been prepared to make itself unpopular by constantly drawing attention to the inherent dangers in Labor's ultimately socialist scheme. The honourable member for Prospect has commented that the Government does not claim that this is a free scheme. If one turns to the advertisements that the Government is lodging in newspapers throughout this country and placing on the television screen, one finds that it is claiming this is a free scheme. One of the advertisements- a major advertisement- which is appearing throughout the country states: 
Everyone will use Medibank at some time in his or her life. 
Medibank is the new Australian health insurance program which will be introduced on 1 July. 
Medibank will provide free medical insurance cover for every man, woman and child in Australia. And free public hospital care in those States whose governments agree to allow such treatment to be made available. 
So what the Government is doing and what the honourable member for Prospect, a leading member of the Government, is deploring is claiming that this is a free scheme. I am convinced that the honourable member for Prospect knows that it is dishonest to claim that the scheme is free when the people pay through one means or another for the scheme. I draw the attention of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to the advertisement which, in the words of the honourable member for Prospect, who I believe is the secretary of the Government's health committee, is plainly fraudulent. 
-What position do you hold? Did they sack you? Anyway, the honourable member, a significant contributor to the debate from the Government side, has in fact condemned the Government's own advertising which claims that it is introducing a free scheme for the people of Australia. 
No, the Government claims that it is a free scheme and you yourself have said that the Government does not claim that it is a free scheme. I have quoted the words exactly from the advertisement which says: 'Medibank will provide free medical insurance cover'. If it used the words 'non-contributory' I could take your point. I draw your attention to it and I hope you will take it up with the Minister in good faith because I am convinced that you made those comments with an understanding of the fact that it is dishonest to claim that a scheme is free when a scheme is not free. The scheme, in fact, will increase costs, as we have said, in a full year by an extra 7 per cent tax levy on every taxpayer in Australia. 
What is Medibank all about? Medibank is the vehicle which puts the Government's national health insurance program in action. What I believe it provides is what might be described as the lowest common denominator in health insurance. It will provide basic public ward cover for all Australians and it will provide extensive medical cover equally for all Australians. It is due to be introduced on 1 July and everybody who knows anything about the Department of Health, the Department of Social Security and the problems facing the Government knows that is would be only with intense difficulty that the scheme could be up and running by 1 July. In fact responsible people reckon that there is no way in which it could responsibly operate before very much later in the year because the Government has found that its ideas about health insurance dreamed up by a couple of academic economists- I am not against academics- in an economic vacuum and placed as policy in the Labor Party books has now become the policy of the Government which has simply and frankly found that all major groups in the Australian community involved in health care will not have a bar of its approach. 
I appeal to the Government even at this late stage, in the light of its difficulty in getting the scheme into operation, to take some time off to consider whether it can achieve some of its admirable goals in the field of health care by working with the health care community in Australia to provide Australians with a scheme which will work instead of battling on with a scheme which will not work. We all know and applaud the fact that in recent days the Government has seen the light in terms of the Australian mixed economy. It might only be a brief respite, but the Government has understood that the private sector in Australia needs assistance desperately at the moment and the Government has taken steps to give it the sort of assistance which it needs. I ask the Government to consider the role of the private sector in the area of health, I suggest that with a moment's thought the Government will understand surely how crucial the role of the private sector is in the area of health care because it seems odd that it would understand the role of the private sector in the normal business community but would reject it in the area of health which is to all people a most intimate area of important human relationships when private relationships, private trust and confidence between doctor and patient, nurse and patient, nurse and doctor, doctor and doctor, administrator and doctor, administrator and nurse and so on, are at the heart of a proper system. So I implore the Government before it is too late, before we have the greatest shambles in health care delivery which this country has ever seen to take a moment off, to swallow its pride, to forget those academic words of the doctors of philosophy in economics who advised it about this scheme, and to go and talk to the people who are delivering health care in this country to ascertain whether it cannot work out a scheme which will work because it is plainly possible to work out such a scheme. 
I give the Government credit for having understood that there is a need for extending health insurance coverage throughout the Australian community. There is an understanding among all parties in this House that it is a desirable objective to have all Australians covered for health insurance today. It is not good enough that we have a million Australians uncovered in 1975. It is perfectly possible for a Labor Government to cover all Australians without destroying the nature and basic operations of health care as it exists in this country. The tragedy of the Government's approach is that in order to extend coverage to all Australians it is taking away the rights and freedoms of choice of many Australian people and professional groups involved in health care. It is threatening the autonomy of doctors, nurses, States and public and private hospitals. It has been out to destroy the health insurance funds. 
I say to the Government that it is not too late for it to go back to these people and to work out an ingenious way to cover the Australian community through the non-government health schemes. The Government might wish to use a government fund to cover the last small percentage of Australians who are presently uncovered. That is not our approach, but it would be better that the Government should consider even that proposal than that it should wipe out the nongovernment funds and the arrangements which have grown up in response to public need and public demand in this country. In a nutshell the Government is saying to the ordinary Australian: You can no longer insure yourself as you wish with the fund that you wish. We will insure you at great cost through general taxation revenues, and what you will be entitled to is the doctor, as you have been entitled under the present arrangements'. 
But there will be great problems in the future even in terms of the doctor-patient relationship. While the Government does not plan initially to regionalise operations- at least I have not heard of those plans- and to place people in areas so that basically they will get on to a particular doctor's list and be able to go only to that doctor, there is no question but that ultimately the freedom of choice of family doctor will be affected. The spread of doctors throughout the community at the moment is not as good as it should be, but under a central bureaucratic approach fostered by the Government, which will find the ease of administrative relationships becoming a No. 1 goal, we will eventually be placed on lists as patients and we will find that we will be faced with great difficulty in transferring from doctor to doctor. 
I move from the question of the doctor and the patient to that of the patient and the hospital. Most Australians at present are covered for something more than a public ward in a public hospital. Most Australians are not yet aware that under Medibank they will be entitled to enter only a public ward in a public hospital. Australian have voted on this matter by means of their contributions to the health funds over the years. The great majority of Australians have voted not only to be in health funds but also for something more than public ward treatment in a public hospital. The Government's 'free' scheme will entitle people only to public ward treatment in a public hospital. What will happen then? It is very simple for all to see. Faced with the great cost of taxation and with the great cost of contribution to health insurance funds, individuals will be driven to drop out of their private insurance schemes. There is a story going around that people will be encouraged by the Government to drop out of private schemes. If the Government encourages people to drop out of private health insurance before the entire Medibank scheme is in operation, it will deserve the gravest censure of this House because it will be utterly and completely defrauding the Australian people who will have no recourse to the array of choices of hospital cover, which they presently have, if they drop their nongovernment insurance contribution and are relying on the government. 
Where is an individual placed who drops his insurance contribution and is therefore reliant on the government? He is placed in an increasingly long queue at the public hospitals of this country. That will mean that waiting times in Australia for the treatment of non-urgent cases, while presently not perfect but not nearly as bad as in a number of other similar countries, will lengthen to month upon month. People simply will not get their operations when their doctors tell them that they should have those operations. The Government will then turn to the private hospitals in an attempt to do a deal to extend public ward cover into the private hospitals sphere. I do not object to the notion that arrangements are possible between private hospitals and governments in this country for the treatment of people in standard or public wards. I would support such a notion. But one cannot help but fear that one of the key aims of the Government is not to have a reasonable working relationship with the hospitals but in fact ultimately to take over the private hospitals. We have heard that sort of thing from government spokesmen in the past. It is part and parcel of their view that fundamentally there is ultimately no role for the non-government sector in health care. 
We in the Opposition have declared again and again that we wish to see reforms so that coverage is extended to low income groups, that we wish to see the full array of services available to pensioners, and that we wish to see countless other reforms. But we know the perils of Labor's ultimately socialist scheme. The Government in its heart knows the perils of that scheme. It cannot but know them when, day by day, it meets intransigent opposition from groups in the Australian community which otherwise are not entirely unreasonable- unless one is to regard doctors, nurses, private hospitals and State governments as entirely unreasonable groups in the Australian community. 
So I implore the Government again to consider calling off the troops and trying another approach- an approach through reason, through conciliation, through working together with those groups in the Australian community which, warts and all, have provided a basically first class health system in this country. If we place the entire, or almost the entire, provision of health care on the shoulders of the Government of this country the people will be the losers in the long run, because a government - any government- on going to the people at an election will fail to find the money and will be unprepared to make the undertaking to find the money for the sort of open-ended arrangement in which we are involved when we move entirely to the provision of health care by the Government. I grant the Government that if it wishes to have an authoritarian system, or even a totalitarian system, it can do it because it just has to lay it down. But in a system which relies upon the goodwill of private people and private groups in the Australian community- disparaged as sectional interests- the Government has to go to them and work things out with them. If entire reliance is placed on governments, in the end the people will suffer and the poor will suffer most of all. The pensioners will suffer- those people who previously had an open go in the public hospitals of this country. They are the ones who will suffer, and that is the tragedy of Labor's health scheme. The Government will hurt most those people it says it seeks to serve, if it goes ahead with the Medibank scheme. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  Yesterday in this House the honourable member for Prospect said that the Government does not claim that Medibank is a free scheme. I pointed out that in the opening paragraphs of Medibank advertisements, and indeed on television advertisements throughout Australia, it is claimed that it is a free scheme, that there is free hospital and free medical insurance. That is the point and it is on that point that I asked the honourable member for Prospect to advise the Minister for Social Security to change the advertisements so that the fraudulent claim that the health insurance would be free would not be made. It is true that in the advertisement - 
I have been misrepresented by a distortion of my remarks by the honourable member for Prospect. In the second or third paragraph of the Medibank advertisement it is claimed that this Medibank scheme is free. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put- 
That the motion  (Mr Wentworth's)  be agreed to. 
-I wish to congratulate the Government on finally bringing forward for debate in this House the Australia Council BUI. I wish to congratulate the Government for setting up an Australia Council. I am aware of the difficulties which have been encountered in endeavouring to set up this body. I can understand the cause for concern in the Government about many matters associated with formulating a major new policy for the arts in this country. There is no doubt in my mind that one of the things which helped the present Government to win the 1972 election was the massive support it received from practitioners in many fields of the arts who wanted new recognition by government in this country. We understand this fact. Perhaps it is a little late, but I believe we understand it now. 
We cannot help noting that many of the high hopes which artists had in all fields of the arts have not been realised or have not been realised as quickly or in quite the way in which so many people expected they would be. Like the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  I regard this matter as part of the nature of the beast. I am sure that dealing with artists is very like dealing with politicians- prima donnas all. We ought to understand the feelings of hostility which developed in the arts communities about the attempt to set up new organisations to handle their affairs. I believe that the choice of a statutory corporation, while obvious in terms of overseas precedents in this area, has some dangers. I support the proposition that it ought to be a statutory corporation, but I question the idea that we should simply set up new statutory corporations every time anything a bit difficult comes along. 
I believe that once it was thought that the way to give people encouragement and flexibility in the field was to set up a statutory corporation, so we have the Australian Broadcasting Commission and many different sorts of statutory corporations; but in these days when there is a need for re-emphasis upon the role of the elected representatives of the people at the various levels of government, there is a need for that area of government to be underlined. We need to stress the significance of the role of the people as expressed through elected bodies. If we set up a statutory corporation which will inevitably enjoy a very significant degree of autonomy, we need to be careful that we do not set up yet another body with an inherent tendency towards conservatism which can result in ideas which were fresh and bright at the outset rapidly becoming encrusted by the bureaucracy, which is so much a feature of organisations, in particular large organisations and organisations which are spending a great deal of money. There is a tendency on the part of those at the head of the organisation to assume an alarming amount of power. I think that we as members of Parliament need to look very carefully at the early years of operation of the Australia Council to see that we are having sufficient say not in our interests or in the interests of government but in the interests of the people and in particular people at the length and breadth of the Commonwealth. 
I would agree with the objects of the Australia Council as set out in the Bill. I simply single out what seem to me to be the 2 major aspects of the Council. On one hand the emphasis is upon excellence and on the other hand the need for community participation and development in the arts. I do not believe that it is a question of emphasising one and not the other. Clearly art is elitist in many respects, but we would wish to bring the variety of experience of the arts to more and more Australians. I know that the Government and the Australia Council intend that and I know that many people have been anguished because they have not seen adequate results quickly enough. Therefore I come back to the point that this is part of the problem, part of the nature of the beast. 
The Government has become the great patron of the arts. There are great dangers in that, as the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  noted. I fully support his remarks about the need to stimulate non-government and indeed the diverse government patronage and stimulation of the arts. I think that the Government could have avoided some of the problems which it encountered in setting up the Australian Council for the Arts, had it consulted more actively earlier in the piece. The Government would probably now recognise that some of its difficulties could have been avoided had it done that. I instance in particular the major question of the nature of the organisation which was to become the Australia Council. The Council for the Arts made a report to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which was expected to be the basis of the Australia Council Bill which we are deliberating upon tonight. It was led to believe that it would be consulted fully before the Bill was put into the form necessary to produce it in this House. But in fact the Council for the Arts was not consulted at the early stagethis is a good while ago now- when the Bill was drawn up and first presented to this House. I can understand the real concern which a number of art practitioners felt about the failure of the Government to consult over what I believe are quite crucial features of this Bill. I shall draw attention to some of these crucial features. I will endeavour to keep my remarks brief because I understand that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission Bill is to be considered shortly- I understand after the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has spoken on this matter. I refer to the question of the term of office of members of the Australia Council. I advance the proposition that where as the paid officials of the Council are by nature to be permanent or reasonably permanent officers- there is a provision under clause 9 (2) (c) for departmental or statutory corporation officers to be permanent members of the Council- the artists in the field, as it were, the part-time artist members of the Council, are not in fact given permanent membership of the Council. Their term of office extends to a maximum of 4 years in any one term. In clause 10 there is an emphasis upon the term of office being set at between one and three years. I fail to see the reason why the artists should have their terms of office so truncated. I believe that they are the people who will ensure that community attitudes and the attitudes of the artists will constantly bear upon decision making in this field. 
-Some did but others did not. There is a difference about this point. 
Yes, of course. I simply say that they will face the problem that they no sooner will get into their stride than they will be thrown out of their stride- off the council- and the permanent officials can reign supreme in this sort of context. I am not casting aspersions on anyone in particular, but many artists are highly suspicious of the role of the permanent officials. The only way to do anything about it is to have a significant continuity in the representation of artists on the Council and the boards. I understand the argument that the term of office of artists on the Council boards should be limited to 5, 6, 7 or 8 years, but I do not understand the argument that the term should be basically limited to one to three years, with an absolute upper limit of 4 years. 
The other point I make relates to the boards. The Australian Council for the Arts originally recommended to the Government that the powers of the boards, representing the highly diversified approach which is necessary in the arts policy, should be set out in the Bill for all to see. The Bill does not define the powers of the boards, and I believe that this is a failing in the Bill. This definition was certainly sought by the Australian Council for the Arts, but it has now found that the Government, as a fait accompli, failed to take into account the Council's request to set out the powers of the boards. The Australian Council for the Arts made the following request: 
Subject to the Act, the Boards to be responsible for the development and implementation of policies and initiatives within their respective fields, with authority over their budget allocations and with the right to establish their own pattern of professional staff, committees and consultations. 
That is what the Australian Council for the Arts was looking for. What it was given by the Government is found in clause 21 of the Bill which states: 
A Board shall have such functions and powers as are delegated to it under section 7. 
There is no guarantee of autonomy for the boards at all. I hope that the Government will take this matter into consideration and act upon it in due course. I certainly believe that it ought to be looked at by a Liberal government. I have been asked to conclude my remarks so that my colleague the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  might have time to say something. 
Finally, I point out that clause 22, sub-clause (3), states: 
A majority of the members of a Board for the time being shall be persons who practice the arts or are otherwise associated with the arts. 
Already we on this side of the House have drawn attention to this. But my point is that the Australian Council for the Arts originally asked the Government to ensure that the majority of Board members consist of artists and persons working in the arts, not people who were theatre ticket subscribers or something like that. I take it from the reaction of the honourable member for Franklin that he has understood these points. I will be interested in a response in due course. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: Is it a fact that he said this week that he had never made a statement that there would be no threat to Australia for 10 to 15 years? I ask him whether it is a fact that in his own exact words in his own article in the Melbourne 'Herald' of 25 September 1 973 he said: 
No one is threatening our security for the next 10 to 15 years. 
Why is the Minister now misleading the Australian people about his own position? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When does the Government intend to abolish the means test for pensioners aged 63 and over. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When does the Government intend to abolish the means test for pensioners aged 70 years and over. 
It is interesting to hear the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  refer to the great 'Age' newspaper in such glowing terms today. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  might well take a leaf out of his book for many days past. The other thing I always find interesting about the Minister is his continuing love-hate relationship with the National Country Party of Australia. Of course we in the Liberal Party have the closest possible relations with our country friends. It might be described as a relationship of continuing affection. I think we can only describe the Minister's relationship as one of love-hate. He loves talking about members of the National 
Country Party but he seems to hate them. He goes on and on about them. 
Nr Nixon- He cannot beat them; that is why. 
-He cannot beat them. Of course they are magnificent fighters in the grass roots election campaigns around this country, in whatever State. I think all parties could take a leaf out of their book. They are most assiduous at cultivating the grass roots. That is what the Minister dislikes about them. He shows again and again, along with a number of his colleagues in government, the strange and rather sad antirural bias of this socialist government. It is sad how far this thing has gone in the last  Vh  years. The Government's anti-rural bias would appear to be just as big as its anti-business bias, which needs to be felt to be understood. 
The important thing to say about this electoral redistribution is that the Australian Labor Party needs it. Labor needs this electoral redistribution about as much as it needs to spend millions of dollars of taxpayers' funds on public relations to cover up its policy failures. It needs this electoral redistribution about as much as it needs to threaten members of the insurance industry with fines or even gaol because they dare to disagree with Labor's socialist plans. It needs this electoral redistribution basically becase of its sheer incompetence and its socialist policies which mean that it would find it extremely difficult to win an election on existing boundaries. I do not believe that Labor could come within a bull 's roar of winning elections on the proposed boundaries, even these boundaries which nudge the electoral system Labor's way. All the public relations, all the advertising, all the wild spending of taxpayers' funds and all the redistribution of boundaries in the world will simply not save this sad socialist Government. It has had its fair go and now it is stretching it. It is stretching the rules of the game to new limits. With all the subtlety of a bull in a china shop, it is reacting in fine authoritarian fashion to proper criticism of its policies. 
It is important to see the situation of Victoria in relation to the overall design of the Labor Government with respect to redistribution. We can only understand its redistribution plans by understanding its plight in the Australian community today. I am merely briefly elaborating that argument for your greater understanding,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I will not pursue this line far, only to say that these days nobody talks about open government. All that open government means to the socialists is that you leak the secrets of your opponents in Cabinet to your friends in the media. 
In the redistribution I think the important point for this House and the people of Australia to note is that the Government has done it with subtlety. It takes a detailed analysis to understand the undemocratic advantage which this redistribution in fact gives to the Labor Party. A cursory examination of the maps reveals that it is not a visually crude redistribution. It can only really be seen to be unfair when the figures are fully analysed and when it has been looked at Australia-wide. Doing the sums and the figure work in an electoral redistribution is difficult. On this occasion it has been difficult for us in the Liberal Party. We have looked at the work of independent commentators such as  Mr Mackerras  and the few others who work in this field. Our treatment of the redistribution is based upon an analysis of the figures and not simply on the words of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Those who say that it is a fair distribution, in my view, either have not studied the figures in detail or have approved of the undemocratic emphasis because they see it as overcoming the old Labor problem that, like the National Country Party of Australia, it has great voting strength in certain restricted areas. We in the Liberal Party tend to gain a more even spread of the vote than either the National Country Party or the Labor Party. 
There are also those who say that this redistribution must be fair because it is rather unhelpful to the National Country Party, on the principle that anything is fair if it hurts the National Country Party. It needs to be understood clearly that the Opposition 's attitude has not been determined by the National Country Party. It is not a case of the National Country Party tail wagging the Liberal Party dog. In this matter the Liberal Party's bite is as bad as the National Country Party's bark. Of course, redistributions in Australia automatically cause more anguish for the National Country Party than for either the Liberal Party or the Labor Party. This is a natural by-product of the population surge to the cities that has taken place since Federation- a surge which, incidentally, has many obvious undesirable aspects. 
It has to be said that the Liberal Party was not automatically opposed to a redistribution by the Labor Government. We would have supported a fair redistribution based on the broad principle of one vote one value. We waited to see the figures. We have studied the figures and have found them to be unfair- I add, perhaps not grossly unfair or not altogether obviously unfair, but on close study plainly unfair and providing an undemocratic advantage to a Labor Party in panic. If the Liberal Party dog was in fact being wagged by the National Country Party tail, surely the dog would have wobbled a little and surely someone would have seen it wobble. But there have been no reports of conflict between the Liberal Party and the National Country Party over this matter. We have heard members of the Government party say that our attitude has been determined by the National Country Party, but there is no evidence for this. There has been no fight in the Liberal Party room- in what the Labor Party calls 'the Caucus room'. There is no evidence whatsoever that we and our National Country Party friends are living in anything but the utmost harmony over this electoral distribution. 
-That is the trouble. The Labor Party has to make it up. It has told the Australian people that, on the basis of first principles, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party must disagree, and because the 'Age' agrees with the Labor Party it must be right. But honourable members opposite have not given us one iota of evidence that in the party room, where this matter was decided, there was anything but an extraordinarily united stand on this issue- an issue which is important for the Australian people and an issue which, of course, is important to the point of anguish for all members of this House. I might add that my seat has suffered a little. I will win it still, but it has suffered a little nonetheless. All we have is allegations by the opponents of the coalition parties. They are not always without foundations, but they happen to be without foundation in this case. 
Commonwealth redistributions have been much misunderstood and often mixed up with the blatantly undemocratic gerrymanders which we have seen so often in the State parliaments. I hold no brief for them. The verdict of most impartial observers of past Federal redistributions is that they have not been blatantly unfair to any party. Of course, over the years we have been responsible for the boundaries most of the time; so our attitude stands the test of time. I must confess that one thing did rather tempt me to give perhaps cynical support to the Australia Labor Party's boundaries, and this is simply that the last time the Labor Party drew the boundaries it lost the next election. 
In 1948, as the honourable member rightly reminds me. If members of the Australian Labor Party had not been that little bit too greedy, that little bit too selfish, we in the Liberal Party would have seriously considered supporting the new boundaries, but they were that little bit too greedy. Let us look at the position as at the last election. With a minority of the votes they gained a clear majority of the seats. With the same vote, under the proposed boundaries, they would gain a considerably bigger majority of the seats. They now have a majority of 5 seats. At the last election their vote was about 49 per cent. 
-No, 49.2 per cent. The same 49 per cent would give them an extra 3 seats, moving their majority from five to at least eleven. It might in fact be more. What they have done in this instance is not extraordinarily gross. It is not obvious as one reads the maps. But when one does the sums one finds, as sure as the living daylights, that they have nudged it this way and that. 
It is more like an iceberg than anything else. They have nudged it this way and that, so that with the same vote they gain more seats. They had a minority of the vote last time and they gained a clear and fair majority of the seats. No Australian, least of all the Opposition, would deny them that. So, that is the story that needs to be told about this redistribution. We need to put to rest this nonsense about division between members of the Liberal Party and members of the National Country Party. It is not a case of our dog being wagged by their tail. 
It is not a case of that at all. Our bite is as bad as their bark. We disagree with the proposals which are clear, if not gross. They are undemocratic inasmuch as they would improve Labor's position. It would win at least 3 extra seats throughout Australia, on a conservative estimate. It might win more. 
-To be fair, we have made a very conservative estimate. We do not want to exaggerate our case. The case stands on its own feet and needs no exaggeration. All that needs exaggeration in this country at the moment is any of the virtue which is left in the Labor Party. It will need exaggeration beyond even the imagination of the Minister for Services and Property who has one of the most wonderful imaginations in Australian politics. The story here is that Labor is facing a hostile Australian community- not hostile at the outset, but hostile now because of the impact of Labor's policies and because of the records that Labor is creating in so many vital fields such as record unemployment, record inflation and record interest rates. It is in that context that Labor seeks this redistribution which will give it more seats with no more votes. 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Which country or countries were suggested by his intermediary as the source for the $2,000m loan, and through which financial institutions was the loan to be funded? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress has been made in preparing amendments to the Bankruptcy Act. 
When will these amendments be presented to Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say how many (a) houses and (b) flats, were constructed in each State by State Housing Authorities in each of the years 1972-73, 1973-74and 1974-75. 
How many approvals were given for construction of (a) houses and (b) flats by State Housing Authorities in each State in the September quarter of 1 974. 
How many (a) houses and (b) flats were under construction by State Housing Authorities in each State at the end of the September quarter of 1 974. 
How many (a) houses and (b) flats were completed by State Housing Authorities in each State during the September quarter of 1974. 
How many applications for accommodation were registered with State Housing Authorities in each State at 30 June of the years 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973 and 1974. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he say in the House of Representatives on 3 April 1974 that there should not be foreign military bases, stations or installations in Australia, that the Government would honour agreements covering existing ones but that it did not favour the extension or prolongation of any of the existing agreements and that there would not be extensions or proliferations; if so, is this still the intention of the Government. 
If this is still the intention of the Government, when does he propose to give notice to the United States Government of termination of the agreement covering the Joint Defence Space Research facility at Pine Gap. 
If the foregoing is not proposed, what is the intention of the Government in relation to this facility. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is he considering another overseas trip later this year or early next year? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1) Is it a fact that the review of the Bankruptcy Act was commenced as long ago as 1968. 
Is it also a fact that there have been no substantive amendments to the Bankruptcy Act since it was enacted in 1966. 
Are the deficiencies in the Act the cause of much concern and distress to the Official Receiver and Trustees in Bankruptcy. 
Can he give a definite date by which the review will be completed. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the interim report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum on the Australian Council of Trade Unions oil deal has been delivered to the Governor-General? When will it be available to the Parliament and to the public? 
-Everybody in the oil industry knows that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  deceived the Parliament and the Australian people. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
-The Australian Council of Trade Unions and everybody else in the oil industry - 
Question put. 

 -Why, Mr Speaker? 

Well, I ask the Prime Minister to confirm these statements - 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Do individuals who have an interest in a deceased estate have adequate redress under the law against trustee companies which are dilatory in winding up the affairs of such estates. 
Are the interests of such individuals sufficiently protected in times of high inflation. 
If not, does he contemplate any action to safeguard such interest. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House believes- 
1 ) That the  President  of the Australian Labor Party's oil company, ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd, purchased crude oil on terms which were contrary to government policy and which gave it unfair market advantages over competitors including small Australian discount dealers who abided by government policy; 
That while the Petroleum Royal Commission found that the Government had been deliberately deceived by 
ACTU-Solo about the oil deal, yet evidence in fact before the Commission suggested that the former Minister for Minerals and Energyhad shown ACTU-Solo how to do the deal on the secret terms; 
That this and other evidence which could be produced shows that the Minister for Minerals and Energy misled Parliament about the deal; 
That the report of the Royal Commission is itself inadequate, deceptive and misleading and has been used by the Government and the Prime Minister in a' cover-up of scandalous political corruption and in a cover-up of criminal activity involving the Labor Government and the  President  of the Labor Party and his business colleagues; 
That criminal proceedings should immediately be taken under the Crimes Act against the  President  of the ALP, his co-directors and anyone involved in the conspiracy gain improper advantages by fraud and misrepresentation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that in a number of liquidations and bankruptcies employees are unable to receive salaries and long service leave payments because of the prior right of the Commissioner of Taxation under section 22 lp of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
If so, and in view of the present economic climate, will he consider taking steps to alleviate such hardship on employees. 
I am aware of the facts mentioned by the honourable member. It was the National Memorials Committee, not the Department of the Capital Territory, which decided that the Walter Burley Griffin Memorial on Mount Ainslie would go ahead. At that time the  Chairman  of the National Memorials Committee was the then Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition. I can certainly understand the concern of the honourable member but, because this is basically a recommendation of the 
National Memorials Committee, I will seek the advice of the new Chairman of the National Memorials Committee as to what should be done about it. 
I move: 
1 ) That a Joint Committee be appointed to- 
examine and report on all proposals for modification or variations of the plan of lay-out of the City of Canberra and its environs published in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  on the nineteenth day of November 1925, as previously modified or varied, which are referred to the committee by the Minister for the Capital Territory, and 
examine and report on such other matters relating to the Australian Capital Territory as may be referred to the committee- 
by the Minister for the Capital Territory, or 
by resolution of either House of the Parliament. 
That the committee consist of ten members, four to be nominated by the Prime Minister, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition, two Senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and two Senators nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a joint committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister or by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
That the committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee, and at any time when the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  are not present at a meeting of the committee, the members present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at that meeting. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, and to appoint the  Chairman  of each subcommittee who shall have a casting vote only, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That members of the committee who are not members of a sub-committee may take part in the public proceedings of that sub-committee but shall not vote or move any motion or constitute a quorum. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That the committee have power to move from place to place and to sit during any recess. 
That any sub-committee have power to move from place to place, adjourn from time to time and to sit during any recess or adjournment. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
14) That the committee be provided with necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
That the committee in selecting particular matters for investigation take account of the investigations of other Parliamentary committees and avoid duplication. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the evidence and records of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory appointed during previous Parliaments. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting that it concur and take action accordingly. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
1 ) That a Joint Standing Committee be appointed to act for and represent the Parliament, as the client for the new and permanent Parliament House, in all matters concerned with the planning, design and construction of the new and permanent Parliament House and all matters incidental thereto. 
That the committee reconsider and, as necessary, amend the recommendations of the former Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House contained in its report dated March 1970, which when revised shall be used as the basis of the construction of the new and permanent Parliament House. 
That the committee also consider and report on matters coming within the terms of section 5 of the  Parliament Act  1 974 as may be referred to it- 
by the Minister responsible for administering the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957-1975, or 
by resolution of either House of Parliament. 
That the committee consist of: 
The  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives; 
The Minister responsible for administering the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957-1975; 
Six Members of the House of Representatives, three of whom shall be nominated by the Prime Minister and three by the Leader of the Opposition, and 
Six Senators, three of whom shall be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and three by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
That the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives be Joint Chairmen of the Committee. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a Joint Standing Committee until the House of Representatives is dissolved or expires by effluxion of time. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members and to refer to such a sub-committee any matter that the committee is empowered to inquire into. 
That the committee or a sub-committee so appointed have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place and to sit during any adjournment or recess of the Parliament. 
10) That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That seven members of the committee, one of whom is the  President  or the  Speaker,  constitute a quorum of the committee and a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that subcommittee. 
That in matters of procedure, each of the Chairmen, whether or not occupying the Chair, have a deliberate vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, the  Chairman  occupying the Chair have a casting vote. 
That in matters other than those of procedure, each of the Chairmen, whether or not occupying the Chair, have a deliberate vote. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the evidence and records of the Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House appointed during the Twenty-ninth Parliament. 
That the committee and sub-committees be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
16) That the committee or a sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it or any information obtained in the course of its inquiries or any document presented to it. 
That the committee be authorised to provide, on behalf of the Parliament, all necessary information concerning the functional requirements for the new and permanent Parliament House and matters incidental thereto direct to the National Capital Development Commission as the Authority responsible to Parliament to undertake or arrange for the planning, design and construction of the new and permanent Parliament House. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting that it concur and take action accordingly. 
The Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House was established under the previous Parliament and began operating in the latter half of 1975. It has the essential function of acting for Parliament as the client during the planning, design and construction of the new Parliament House. This resolution re-establishes the Joint Standing Committee and will allow planning to proceed. It is most important that this Committee be reconstituted by the Parliament so that the impetus which has been generated towards getting the permanent Parliament House built is not lost. I believe there is a general acceptance by most members of the urgent need to relieve the accommodation problems in the present House. 
From the Government's point of view, the new Parliament House project is a long term one and will not involve high expenditure in the immediate future. Under the current program construction funds will not be needed until 1978-79 at the earliest for the commencement of site works. However, what will proceed with the reestablishment of the Joint Standing Committee is the important preliminary planning and design work which in a project of this size, requires a significant lead time. The only significant change to the resolution which established the previous Joint Standing Committee is the addition of paragraph 14 to allow the new Committee to use the evidence of the previous Committee. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill and the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Amendment Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of the Capital Territory for 1974-75. 
-In our discussions with the New South Wales Government we are not advocating the shifting of the border between the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales. Our concern has been to ensure that the real work of planning for development should proceed immediately in a constructive fashion in discussions between Federal, State and local governments. For that reason we are drawing up a strategy plan which will be on display, we hope, within 6 months. It will give people, such as those mentioned by the honourable member, certainty about the use and future development of their land, because for some time now that use and development have been frozen. People have been put in a hopeless situation of uncertainty about the future and it is our intention not to be caught up with symbolic issues but to do the real work of co-operative planning for future development. 
Discussions are being held at the moment, indeed today, with a view to getting the new timetables introduced for bus services in the Australian Capital Territory as soon as possible. In view of the importance and delicacy of those discussions I would not want to say more at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(I)- 
1972-73-3474 blocks; 1973-74-3405 blocks; 1974-75-3980 blocks 
1975-76-1252. The numbers for 1976-77 and 1977-78 have not been determined as they require the Government 's consideration in the Budget context. 
NCDC estimates that 3970 blocks will be serviced and handed over to the Department in 1975-76. The number of blocks to be serviced and handed over in 1976-77 and 1977-78 will depend on budgetary considerations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The cost of salaries and allowances for A.C.T. 
Police personnel, including the motorcycle escort was $2,885.20. 
The cost of salaries and allowances, including penalty rates, incurred for Saturday duty was $4,448.18. 
Number of A.C.T. Police in attendance on- 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Livestock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill 1976, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has asked me to apologise to the House. An urgent Cabinet meeting has meant that he is unable to be here in the closing stages of this debate. He has asked me to assure the House that he has taken note of the constructive comments made by honourable members and that he will look carefully at those remarks which he did not hear in the last few minutes. He is very aware of the problems of fruit growers. The Bills before the House provide interim assistance to the apple and pear industry. The recommendation in the final report of the Industries Assistance Commission on fruit growing- in particular, the apple and pear section of the industry- are currently being considered by the Government. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  has referred to the need for long term solutions to the industry's problems. Such solutions will be sought when the full IAC report is being considered. Honourable members have referred to the tree-pull scheme. The Minister has asked me to say that this scheme is only part of the overall assistance available to the industry. The Minister will be happy to provide explanations to any honourable member who wishes to know why the IAC did not include the American market under the stabilisation scheme now before the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1930-1973 I present the statement of receipts and expenditure relating to administration and development of the Australian Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962-1973 for the following purposes: Firstly, to replace the references to the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council with references to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly; secondly, to amend the provisions of the principal Act dealing with the remuneration and allowances of the members of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority; and thirdly, to bring the language of the principal Act into line with currrent drafting practices. In 1962 the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority was established by the principal Act. It consisted of a  chairman  and two other members one of whom was to be elected by the Advisory Council of the Australian Capital Territory. 
In 1974 amendments were made to the Advisory Council Ordinance which amongst other things effectively reconstituted the A.C.T. Advisory Council as the Legislative Assembly. Legal doubts have been expressed that the amendments to the Ordinance could operate to amend the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act to correct the superseded references. The Bill which in this respect is of a purely mechanical character will bring about this result but it also validates acts or things done by the Electricity Authority and any election by the Legislative Assembly of a member of the Authority since the time the Advisory Council was superseded by the Legislative Assembly. With regard to the second of the purposes I have mentioned, the Bill remakes the provisions of the principal Act dealing with the remuneration and allowances of members of the Authority to take account of the changes in the manner in which their remuneration is now determined by virtue of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1975. The opportunity has been taken to include in the Bill some formal amendments of the principal Act to bring the language of the Act into line with current drafting practices. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bryant)  adjourned. 
-The situation in the motor registries is under study at the moment and I am not ready to make any announcement. Therefore I think that any further comment on the honourable member's question would be out of order at this stage. 
I can assure the honourable member that the considerations which he mentioned will be taken into account by the Australian Capital Territory Milk Authority. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (3) The questions asked reveal a misunderstanding of the situation. This is understandable in view of press reports about an amendment recently made to the City Area Leases Ordinance. 
The Ordinance was first introduced in 1936. It enables leases in Canberra to be granted for specific business and/or residential purposes. It makes it an offence for land to be used for any purpose other than that authorised under the lease. The honourable Member will recall the importance his party has always attached to leasehold and to regulating and use through the purpose clause of a lease. 
The 1976 Ordinance amendment was promulgated to correct a legislative deficiency which inhibited the Department in its proper administration of the Ordinance. 
Recent publicity has suggested that the Department would use the provision to put small businessmen out of business. Particular reference was made to those businessmen operating from their homes. 
These statements ignore the fact that the Ordinance provides separately that bonafide residents may seek and obtain approval to carry on their profession, trade, occupation or calling from their home, provided a nuisance is not caused to neighbours and the activity is not against the public interest. 
A large number of residents conducting minor businesses have sought and obtained such approvals which are given conditionally upon them complying with specific conditions intended to control the impact on neighbours. Any other applicants whose activity is acceptable would obtain a similar approval. In a small proportion of cases only, where neighbours would be adversely affected, has approval been refused. 
However any business which is established on a site in defiance of the lease conditions and without such foregoing approval would face possible legal action. I make no apology for this in view of my Ministerial responsibility in regard to the leasehold system under which planned land use is maintained in Canberra. 
The Ordinance also contains a procedure for seeking a permanent change of lease purpose by application to the A.C.T. Supreme Court. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 18 buses 8.00 a.m. to 9.00 a.m., northbound: (b) 17 buses S.00 p.m. to 6.00 p.m.. southbound. 
(a) 893 passengers northbound; (b) 725 passengers southbound. 
3 ) ( a ) 5202 vehicles northbound: (b) 3942 vehicles southbound. 
Based on a car occupancy of 1.4 persons: 
7283 car travellers northbound; 
55 19 car travellers southbound. 
$150,000. 
It is pointed out that the purpose of introducing bus lanes to Adelaide Avenue (and Canberra) ostensibly before significant demand for them is apparent is threefold: 
to demonstrate that faster, more reliable services can be provided by the Canberra Bus Service on major bus routes; 
to attract more patronage to public transport as it is seen to be more acceptable to commuters: and 
to carry commuters more efficiently over scarce road space and to relieve pressures on limited long stay parking spaces, especially around City. 
Press reports about these matters are inaccurate. The Government will soon be considering the question of some form of local authority for the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. Until the Government has done so I have nothing to add. 
The answer the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The running costs of the Yarralumla Nursery (including the Pialligo annex) in the 1974-75 financial year was $446,000 and estimated expenditure for 1975-76 is $466,000. 
) 39 staff are currently employed and comprise: 
-in reply- I thank the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  and the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  for their constructive remarks. The honourable member for Fraser referred to a fuel policy.  His  remarks were not entirely related to the Bill. Nevertheless, they were interesting comments. Comments such as those made by both honourable members are being considered by the Government at the moment in its general consideration of a fuel policy for the Australian Capital Territory. I thank both honourable members for their constructive, helpful and accurate remarks about the work of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority. I thank the honourable member for Fraser for his remarks about the  Chairman  of the Authority. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Treasurer's reply to Question on Notice No. 526 which appeared in  Hansard  on 26 May 1976 (page 2525). 
Petrochemical Industry at Redcliffs (Question No. 568) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the Australian Capital Territory unimproved value of a site for rating purposes depends on the market value of the site for the purpose for which the lease is granted. 
Because the leases of sites used by religious institutions for religious or educational purposes are allocated for those purposes alone there is no market in the A.C.T. for such sites. 
While the sites in question continue to be used for their existing purpose it is not possible to arrive at a demonstrable market value. 
Any attempt to estimate the value of the sites as if they were available for other purposes could be quite misleading, as the other uses could range from ordinary residential use to the highest possible commercial use. 
In these circumstances I am unable to provide the information sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The cost of a taxi on shuttle service for members is at the normal taxi hire rates. This is at present 35 cents flag-fall plus 22 cents per km. The total charge varies according to the distance and the Department of the Capital Territory adds an administrative on-cost of 10 per cent for billing to the user. Departmental rates for Ministerial and Passenger Cars on the other hand are 11.10 cents per hour plus 6 cents per km which on average means a charge of 60 cents per km. 
Taxis are used to supplement the Commonwealth Car Fleet Co-ordination is effected by the Transport Section of the Department of the Capital Territory and taxis are not used in situations where a Commonwealth car is available. Often on late night work it is neither economic nor possible to man all available Commonwealth cars. 
The Canberra taxi fleet depends to some extent on work allocated to it by the Transport Section of the Department of the Capital Territory for its viability. The amount of work allocated is discussed periodically with the taxi industry with a view of ensuring adequate service to the public generally. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member is referred to his questions on notice Nos 824 and 825 which specifically relate to this question. 
The average cost of development of land for detached dwellings in Canberra is estimated to be in the order of $6,500 per block at December 1975. The cost covers the full servicing including water supply, stormwater drainage and sewerage reticulation, roads, kerbs and gutters, footpaths, entrance drives and certain indirect costs such as land resumption and acquisition and survey, consultants fees and NCDC administrative overheads. It does not include the cost of water supply and sewerage headworks or major internal roads and highways. 
Land development operations in other capitals and provincial centres are not comparable with Canberra because of the different scale, context and timing of individual land development programs. Land sales prices do not necessarily reflect land development costs. The difficulties concerning comparative cost figures were recognised by  Mr Uren  in his answers to similar questions from  Mr Snedden  on 12 November 1974 (PQ 390) and  Mr Hunt  on 10 April 1975 (PQ1196). 
-I move 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  foreshadowed amendments to the Australia Council Act in his ministerial statement on the arts in the House on 3 June 1976. The amendments take into account the Government's stated policies on the arts. They are designed to improve the organisation of the Council, and to correct problems and deficiencies identified by the Council itself as a result of an internal review commissioned from the management consultants firm of McKinsey and Co. They also take account of the recommendations of the Administrative Review Committee. 
It is proposed to amend the Act by adding as a function of the Council the provision that it should be the Government's advisory agency on all matters falling within the areas of its responsibilities. Previously it was not charged with this specific responsibility. The Council will assume responsibility for and administer the public lending right scheme, previously under the control of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, as part of the Government's aim of rationalising governmental functions. 
Council control of the activities of the boards is to be increased. In the past the problem has been that the Council and its executive have carried responsibility for the organisation but have had insufficient authority to control its operations. While the Council will still continue to carry its assistance to different art forms through specialist boards, delegation of powers and functions by the Council to boards will no longer be mandatory. The Council may also lay down rules and guidelines for the boards to follow in the exercise of delegated functions and powers. 
To make the organisation more streamlined and manageable, the Council is to be reduced in size from a range of eighteen to twenty-four to a range of fifteen to nineteen. Public Service members are to be reduced from three to two. Membership of the boards is to be reduced from the present range of seven to ten to a range of five to seven, plus chairman, excepting the Aboriginal Arts Board which is to be reduced from the present range of nine to fourteen to a range of seven to nine plus chairman. In future, additional co-option of members will not be possible. 
With a view to stabilising the organisation and taking advantage of experience, the terms of appointment for Council and board members will be extended from 3 to 4 years, with provision for renewal for a further term of 2 years. These extensions should compensate for the reduction in size of the Council and boards and allow for the advantages of continuity of service. However, in order to prevent viewpoints from becoming entrenched it is proposed that, if terms of appointment are renewed for 2 years, further reappointment will not be considered until 2 more years have expired. 
Two new positions will be created. One will provide for a  deputy chairman  of the Council- a part-time office- to assist the  Chairman  and generally facilitate the Council's operation. The second will provide for a general manager- a fulltime office- who will be the chief executive officer of the Council. The position of general manager will be a statutory office with a 7 year term and the office holder will be an  ex officio  member of the Council. It is our hope that these amendments will further facilitate the promotion of the arts in Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to decisions of the Government which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  outlined in his ministerial statement in the House on 3 June last. In that statement, it was explained that the Australian Film Commission was to assume responsibility for the functions and powers of the Film, Radio and Television Board of the Australia Council, and for the activities and assets of the Audio-Visual Branch of the Postal and Telecommunications Department. The Commission was also to be empowered to provide assistance for independent radio and audiovisual production, as it has in the past for film and television. 
The establishment of these new powers and functions for the Commission requires adjustment to the Australian Film Commission Act 1975 to expand the area of reference covered by the legislation. It has been found desirable to adopt a form of words which will include not only film, television, radio and audio-visual activities, but also other forms of presentation of images and sounds that may from time to time emerge from developing technology in the media. Allowance is to be made for the fact that some programs in television and radio are not recorded, but are broadcast live and for the possibility that cinema audiences of the future may be watching pictures of electronic or other origin, rather than films as we know them today. 
The opportunity has also been taken in this Bill to revise the legislation in accordance with recent drafting practice, and take account of certain administrative problems arising from the wording of the current Act. I should add that the Australia Council Act 1975 will retain a reference to film so the Council may continue to engage in film activity provided this is ancillary and does not impinge upon the Commission's responsibilities in this field. 
The Government accepts the need for assistance to experimental and developmental film, radio and television. The various forms of support for the study and appreciation of such productions as art forms are also accepted and specifically allowed for in these amendments. I want to make it plain that the Government does not intend that these areas of assistance should be neglected. Overall funding levels comparable with previous appropriations will be maintained, subject only to the restraints that have been applied in all areas of government expenditure. 
What is different here is that the development of creative innovation in the various media will work side by side with the development of viable production industries, with one body- the Australian Film Commission- responsible for both. It is evident from recent developments, for example,  Picnic at Hanging Rock,  that artistic and commercial success are not incompatible. Rather, they complement each other and form part of a continuum. 
Today's art film can be tomorrow's box office attraction, and the very fact that so many of today's successful films have been generated out of experimental and developmental programs, if anything, demonstrates the need to ensure continuous contact is kept between artistic developments and the developments of the market place. We are dealing with an art form that has proved to be of interest to millions of people throughout the world. It is short sighted, to say the least, to suggest that, when assistance is provided, it must come from one of 2 boxes- one labelled 'art' the other 'commerce'. 
The task of the Film Commission with its new responsibilities will be a challenging one, but it is not really a task of reconciling the irreconcilable. It is a task of ensuring that the benefits derived from work at one end of the scale can flow through to the other, and vice versa. In the field of communication, the tyro has much to learn from the innovator. On the other hand, the artist involved in communication can only derive benefit from the exposure of his work to as wide an audience as is possible. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 3 June last, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  informed the House by way of a ministerial statement of the Government's policy on the future of its arts organisations and outlined some proposed changes in those organisations. Among them was the decision that the Film and Television School will assume responsibility for training in radio and audio-visual communicationsboth of these areas, as the Prime Minister mentioned at the time, having been previously neglected. The purpose of this Bill is to implement those changes as far as the Film and Television School is concerned. These new functions should complement existing operations in both the full-time and open programs conducted by the School and it is expected that they will begin with the 1 978 academic year. 
It is also anticipated that these new arrangements for radio and audio-visual training will be introduced with the maximum of economy consistent with professional standards. I might add that the Prime Minister asked the School to investigate jointly with the Australian Film Commission the feasibility of establishing permanent school facilities at the Commission's Lindfield studio complex and to report on this study by the end of 1 976. 
It is becoming ever more difficult and artificial to put film, television and radio into separate and isolated compartments, for a number of reasons. Technology, for instance, is bringing all 3 media closer together with each using the techniques and technologies of the other. The social impact of the media, likewise, cannot readily be compartmentalised. The people who work in film, television and radio have related responsibilities and share many skills. As the body responsible for training these people, the Film and Television School should logically concern itself with radio and audio-visual techniques. The likelihood is that all 4 disciplines will benefit from simultaneous on-the-spot training. 
The economic factor is also important. The Government has a responsibility to young people learning the film and broadcasting crafts to ensure for them at the end of their training the best possible chance and the widest possible choice of productive, worthwhile and fulfilling employment. For people trained in radio as well as in film and television, that choice would clearly be greater. Here too the Prime Minister asked the school to provide a full-scale assessment of actual employment opportunities which may be open to graduates in the foreseeable future. 
This is especially true now when radio is undergoing dramatic technological, creative and social expansion. Recent years have seen the introduction of an FM radio service with opportunities for stereo broadcasting not only of music but of drama and documentaries. There has been simultaneously a new awareness of the potential role of radio in education and community affairs. The experiments that have so far taken place in these areas represent only a beginning. 
The Film and Television School was established with dual responsibilities, both to the film and broadcasting industry and to education. It is proper therefore that its charter should include audio-visual communications in the light of ever increasing awareness of the importance of sounds and images, either alone or in combination in the process of education. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Ordinance 1973, 1 present the annual report of the operations of the Consumer Affairs Council and the Consumer Affairs Bureau of the Australian Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
I thank honourable members for their comments. I have been the recipient of advice on a number of occasions from the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who has just resumed his seat and who was my predecessor in this position under the Labor Government. I may not always accept his advice but I always enjoy receiving it. Of course, on a much more regular basis I receive the advice of my Liberal Party parliamentary colleagues, the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  and  Senator Knight.  We are working very closely together. Naturally, from time to time they have to stimulate me a little not always with the success they would wish but always with goodwill. I am not suggesting that there is not goodwill in relationships across this chamber. I find also that normally I can discuss matters with the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  on a pretty reasonable basis. I must note that my Liberal Party colleagues are absolutely assiduous in the performance of their duties. It is no wonder that the people of Canberra turned to them at the last election. There is no doubt in my mind that they will both be returned at the next election, whenever that might be. 
Of course, they have to face their electorate as I have to face my responsibilities as Minister in this chamber in times that are very difficult for the people of the Australian Capital Territory. Perhaps they are times more difficult than has ever been the case in the past. Undoubtedly it is a year of consolidation in the Australian Capital Territory made necessary by our Government's need to clean up the mess that Labor made of the economy. Speakers during many other debates have gone into this at great length; so I will not go into it at great length. 
We have been doing what we can there also. As I say, I shall not go into that matter here today. I shall just say that we faced an economy which was in desperate straits. We faced a situation where there had been an alarming increase in the growth rate of the Public Service not just federally, but at State and local levels. We faced the greatest turnround ever in public and private expenditure when public expenditure rose at the expense of private expenditure. Everyone in Australia knows we had to do something about this. That is what we have been involved in ever since we came to office. We will not rest; we will barely sleep until we have fixed up inflation and the economy. 
Because there had been such an expansion in public sector spending and in the Public Service, we had to continue and increase policies started up by the previous Labor Government. Let it not be forgotten that honourable members opposite were the ones who began the processes of cutting back the Public Service and cutting down Public sector spending, which we furthered. I do not believe that had they remained in office they would have been as virtuous as we have been in pursuing these crucial goals. Nevertheless, they began the process and they know in their hearts that we are on the right track. By and large, I believe the people of Canberra know in their hearts that the sorts of things we have been doing are right, just, fair and proper. By and large, the people of Canberra are aware of the fact that we could not have allowed the Public Service to go on growing the way it was growing. 
Regretfully there is of course an impact on Canberra, which is an overwhelming Public Service city, when the rate of growth of the Public Service and public sector spending are cut down. We have done everything we can during our period in office to stimulate private sector spending, to aid people with a proposition to put it into practice, and to help businessmen get cracking with new proposals. We have loosened regulations wherever we can. We have speeded up bureaucratic processes. In fact we have had a very good response indeed from the private sector in this city. The private sector has confidence in the future of Canberra, and it is moving in rapidly to fill up the gaps left by the reduction in public sector spending and the cut in the growth rate of the Public Service. I want all people in Canberra to know that we will listen to any sensible proposition. We will break through bureaucratic red tape wherever possible. I do not necessarily mean in quite the same way as my Labor predecessor, but we will certainly break through bureaucratic red tape in the interests of proposals for the community, individuals and business. People accept that Canberra is not today a hardship city in the sense that people have to be lured to Canberra with a pot of gold which is not obtainable in other places in this country. People come to Canberra because it is a good place to live in. Canberra is a great place to live in. It is one of the world's pre-eminent capital cities. As the Minister for the Capital Territory I would not want to be over-boastful of it, but it is one of the world's greatest capital cities. This present government regards it as such and we will do nothing to damage the standing, the stature, of this city as Australia's national capital. We are not calling on the people of Canberra to suffer in any way in which the people of the rest of Australia are not suffering also. We have been scrupulously careful to ensure that, where we have had to ask the people of Canberra to do a little more to pay their own way, we have not asked any more of them than the average person in any other major city in this country. Perhaps I should not mention this too loudly, but in some cases Canberra people, even after the reviews in expenditure, are still a little bit better off. The honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  has been assiduous in ensuring that wherever possible that is the case. We are facing the facts of life in this city. 
The National Capital Development Commission is spending a little more money this year than last year. With the exception of the Commissioner for Housing Loans scheme and the deferral of a new building for the Department of the Capital Territory, the Department is spending about the same amount of money this year as last year. It is basically business as usual. We are ensuring that all essential community services are being maintained. If we find a hole, we will plug it. If we find a gap, we will cover the gap and we will move rapidly to do so. The way in which the Government sees Canberra and the special situation of the Department of the Capital Territory was recognised in the fact that the Department was given special staff ceilings. The Department has been increasing the number of its staff so that it can service the community at times when other departments, for very proper reasons, have been sacrificing some staff. 
I point out that notwithstanding the restraints Canberra is still growing and will keep on growing. Canberra is regarded by the Government as the national capital. The people of Canberra will be given a fair and generous deal. In the area of housing we have introduced a policy which has a fundamental welfare orientation which no one who believes in assisting those in real need could ever object to. What we are doing is giving the limited resources which the Government has at its disposal to those most in need. I think all honourable members would agree that that is an absolutely impeccable priority of government. It is certainly what the Henderson Committee has recommended as the fundamental approach in this area. I thank honourable members for their useful contributions. I look forward to working with them in the year ahead. 
in reply- We have had some very interesting contributions to this debate tonight. I say to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who has just resumed his seat that we are all proud of the development of the Australian film industry. This is not something for which the present Government can claim in any way - 
All the credit, as I am reminded by my colleague opposite. There is no question that the moves which were set in train by previous Liberal governments a number of years ago, which set up things like the experimental film fund and other important features of today's film industry, in addition to the generous support which the industry got from the Whitlam Government, have enabled the Australian film industry to achieve an entirely new pre-eminence around the world and in this country. We would not want to be stinting in our praise of all those involved in establishing the Australian film industry on the sort of basis which can only make Australians proud. I was a bit saddened by some of the rather wild claims and comments which were made by the 2 members of the Opposition who spoke- the father and son team which performed tonight- that is, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the honourable member for 
Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam).  It was nice to hear that they can still find a flow of words, but sad that so often the fine phrases were not accompanied by appropriate action. I shall take some of the specific criticisms and points made, particularly by the Leader of the Opposition, in a moment. I do not want to follow this line too much because I hope that the area of the arts is one in which we in this country can find a very genuine amount of bipartisanship on the part of the Parliament. I believe it can only be good for the arts if there is agreement right across the political spectrum in this country about the aims and motives which parliaments and governments have for the arts. Wild and exaggerated statements simply do not help to develop an appropriate debate in this country. I say quite simply that many of the claims made by the 2 Opposition speakers do not stand up to the test of the facts. The present Government has had to cut back expenditure on the arts in relatively small proportions. But as the Leader of the Opposition pointed out in his earlier contribution to the debate, his own Government had to cut back on expenditure in this field in almost exactly the same proportion last year. To suggest from a financial point of view that there is any special evil or anything sinister or different in this Government's adherence to the values enshrined in its arts policy is patently absurd. But it is not enough to look at this matter simply in financial terms. Pouring money into this area can be like pouring money into a bucket which has no bottom. Sadly, that is one of the sorts of things that can so easily happen if one tries to put too much in too quickly. 
I would not want to point the bone too heavily in the direction of the Arts Council but there is no question but that with the vastly increased funds which it had to administer in the last few years its administrative costs rose in an impossible fashion. In 1972-73 administrative costs as a percentage of total funds reached 8.4 per cent. This figure doubled to 16.7 per cent between then and 1975-76. That is little short of tragic. It is another illustration of the wanton approach to administration which the former Labor Government so often sadly exhibited when in office. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to the question of purchases by the National Gallery, According to the 2 members of the Opposition who have spoken in this debate Government supporters are supposed to be philistines. If one is to use that often crude financial measuring stick, it so happens that the National Gallery will have 5 1 per cent more funds to spend this year than was actually spent by it on purchases last year. The actual expenditure on purchases by the National Gallery in 1 975-76 was $2.8m. 
-The Labor Government stopped it. It is estimated that in this financial year nearly $4.3m will be spent on acquisitions by the National Gallery, an increase of 5 1 per cent on last year's figure. 
I grant that the estimate for last year was very much higher than actual expenditure. But the Labor Government ran into the facts of life, which were that it had to pull its horns in and cut back on public expenditure. This Government has managed to redress the balance in this area. It has increased the allocation dramatically on what was actually spent last year. It is important in this debate to get the facts right. The Government is concerned that assistance should be given to the artists, to those in the field, whether at the higher reaches of art or in the broad areas of community arts which the Government seeks to support. The honourable member for Grayndler made another odd comment when he drew attention to clause 9 of the amending Bill before the House. The clause reads: 1 7a.  ( 1  ) The Australia Council may appoint Committees to assist the Council in the performance of its functions under this Act. 
He made some very strange remarks. He seemed to see something sinister or something about socialites in this. If only he looked at the facts he would find that clause 9 was inserted into the Bill at the suggestion of the Australia Council, the members of which were largely appointed by the previous Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, the present Leader of the Opposition. Professor Karmel, the  Chairman  of the Australia Council, wrote to the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and asked him to introduce this clause into the legislation. In the explanatory memorandum attached to his letter, Professor Karmel said: 
This is not a proposal from the McKinsey Report but a matter that was raised by the Council in October  1  975. 
That was way back in the old days of Labor Government. Professor Karmel continued: 
It is clearly desirable that the Council should be able to establish a finance and administration committee. It is also desirable to be able to appoint ad hoc committees for special purposes. 
There is nothing in that letter about socialites. There may be something coming from the socialists but there is nothing about socialites. The suggestions contained in the letter were made by the Whitlam appointed members of the Australia Council. The Government supports them because they are good suggestions and for that reason they are in the amending Bill before the House tonight. 
The Leader of the Opposition made comments about  Blue Poles.  I must confess that I am not a  Blue Poles  basher. I rather wanted to enjoy and admire  Blue Poles.  I did not, in fact, happen to find myself excited by  Blue Poles  but I do not accept the proposition that simply to spend a large amount of money on a work of art is a bad thing. I will not accept that proposition. But the fact is that everyone in the art world in this country and overseas believed that too much money was paid for  Blue Poles.  I do not think one would find an artist, collector, curator or director of a gallery or museum who would not accept that proposition. That is why the United States of America has to pay the sort of price announced today for other Jackson Pollock works because the prices for all time have been escalated by the purchasing practices of the previous Labor Government. There is nothing intrinsically wrong with spending very large amounts of money on masterpieces in the art world. What is a matter for the concern of the community, the Government and all governments is whether they are responsible purchases which fit into a coherent and accepted acquisition policy. The Prime Minister and I have already had some discussions on this matter with the National Gallery which believes that it is important for a policy to be developed, put to government and to the community for discussion and agreed upon so that against that background appropriate purchases can be made. 
The Leader of the Opposition suggested- I will not say 'said'- that there had been a directive from the Government that the National Gallery was to concentrate exclusively on the purchase of Australian works of art in some parochial fashion this year. That suggestion is entirely without foundation. The Government has suggested that up to Sim might be spent on the purchase of Australian works of art in a total program of $4.3m. This is not a bad proportion. If that proportion is unreal or too high, the council of the gallery can speak to the Government about it and the Government will have a look at it. The Leader of the Opposition also suggested that the Government is somehow bent on meddling with the council. Overwhelmingly the reforms to clean up the administration of the council and its boards which are before the House have been suggested to the Government by the council. It is entirely without foundation to suggest that these proposals come from an approach by some sort of meddlesome government. They are suggestions which not only carry the imprimatur and the approval of the Australia Council, but also they are, by and large, the Australia Council 's own suggestion. 
The Leader of the Opposition pointed out on at least 2 occasions that the public lending right scheme will continue. It is true that the Government has received a letter from the Australian Society of Authors and I am happy to say that Professor Manning Clark is coming to see me about this matter tomorrow. I look forward to seeing him and to having a good discussion with him about the matters raised by the honourable gentleman tonight and by the Australian Society of Authors in its letter to the Government in which, it is true, the Society has expressed concern about the future of the public lending right scheme. The scheme certainly has now administratively been handed over to the Australian Council but there is absolutely no truth in the suggestion that the Government wants to emasculate the scheme. The Prime Minister said on 2 July: 
I would not expect these administrative arrangements to be in any way prejudicial to or have any adverse effect on the rights of authors under the public lending right scheme. 
That is on the record. We shall stick to that undertaking. I point out to the House that the Australian Council, now charged with making arrangements for the scheme, has not made any decision. I shall have discussions, and the Prime Minister will have discussions, to make certain that appropriate decisions are made in this field to ensure the future of what is a good scheme. I give the Leader of the Opposition credit for what is, in world terms, I think a very special if not a unique scheme. We understand the concern of authors and we look forward to discussions with them to ensure the future of the scheme. 
It was suggested also that the 3-year grants for authors are somehow prejudiced by the policies of the Government. There is nothing in this either. There is no reason why 3-year grants- a desirable practice- should be endangered. The crisis in the Australian Opera was referred to by the Leader of the Opposition. In view of his support for the Opera, I was surprised to hear at question time this morning his nasty little jibe at the Utah organisation, a company which has given a grant to the Australian Opera of $250,000- a quarter of a million dollars. This is far and away - 
-The Opposition does not want to see business interests develop this country. Obviously the Opposition is not prepared to see organisations in this country apart from Government, support the arts. It is hardly worth responding to the interjections,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  so you need not worry; I shall respond to them no longer. The Government believes that patronage of the arts should be as diverse as possible. It was an entirely good thing that Utah responded to the challenge of the Government for matching grants from private organisations and State governments. What is more, the New South Wales Government has responded also. Is there something wrong with that? The matching grant approach, has on this occasion proved to be an entirely worthwhile approach to the funding of the Australian Opera. There is no suggestion, however, that private sources are to take over patronage of the arts, as was crudely suggested by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Then there is the matter of devolution in the area of the community arts. No hasty decisions will be taken in this area. The aim of a process of devolution is, of course, to ensure that decisions are made not by some remote central body but in the light of local knowledge. We and the Council will move with great care in this area. There is no question that the Australia Council will maintain its oversight of the community arts program. 
The question of the transfer of the functions of a film and television board to the Film Commission was raised by speakers during the debate. It is quite clear from what has been said by the Government that the crucial role in experimental film and all that has been involved in the operations of the Film and Television Board will continue under the new administrative arrangements. These new arrangements were suggested by the original Tariff Board report of June 1973. One of the clauses in the Bill before us tonight makes it quite clear that the Government intends to persevere with these desirable programs which have been developed over recent years. I understand from the Film Commission that it intends to establish a completely separate branch and account to handle this area of what is known as experimental film. 
I conclude by saying that the Leader of the Opposition made some comments about the very idea of free artistic expression and so on being somehow seen by Liberals as being incomprehensible and dangerous. In fact, the very idea of free artistic expression is at the heart of liberalism. Under socialism it has little place. 
This approach to diversity, freedom, the establishment of institutions, and approaches in society which can enable free men to express themselves is at the heart of Liberal philosophy. The performance of the Government to date, the amounts allocated in the Budget and the concrete decisions made all make it plain that the Government believes in the arts and in their future at the heart of community life in this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  when Prime Minister, used to talk at great length about the Australian Government. We heard a great deal about the Australian Parliament. 
-They were breathless days. I find quite breathtaking tonight the explanations given by the Leader of the Opposition as to why when he was Prime Minister he was not prepared to accept the suggestion that the school should be called the Australian Film and Television School. I can only accept the proposition which had been made to me by so many people then that the reason it was not appropriate to call that body the Australian Film and Television School was that he was seeking to reserve the name Australia' entirely to himself. We had the Australian Government, the Australian Prime Minister and the Australian Parliament. We had abolished the word 'Commonwealth', I think. 
When the poor, miserable practitioners of the arts- the people who out in the field ran the Film and Television School- sought to get a little of the glory, even if only reflected glory, and call their body the Australian Film and Television School because that is the name by which it was known all around the world, the Prime Minister was absolutely adament: 'No, "Australia" is for me and me alone'. So there was no opportunity whatsoever for those people to get even a sneaking little bit of the glory- what tonight the honourable gentleman has called the glory of a more grandiloquent title. I do not know; we are a modest government. We have been asked by these people to do what the Leader of the Opposition was never prepared to do; we have been asked to call this body by the name which is used for it around the world. It is a school which is establishing a world reputation. We have been asked to do the simple thing of putting this small, simple word 'Australia'- not 'Commonwealth '-in the title. 
I thank the Leader of the Opposition for his very generous remarks about the way in which the light in this area at least has dawned upon this odd Government. But, oddly enough, we were also asked to introduce this change by a  Mr 
Barry Jones, who is a well known spokesman for the arts in Victoria and who is a member of the Labor Party in Victoria. He communicated with one of my colleagues and suggested that it would be a good idea, and that efforts had been made in the past, to provide an appropriate title. So we said that we would look at it. We said we would look at it because we seek to be reasonable in these small things, as the honourable member has said. So this nice small change that has been suggested by my honourable, gallant and I think also learned friend, the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  will be accepted by the Government with much pleasure. I thank both honourable members for their splendid contributions to the debate tonight. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I should like to say a word about Ivor Greenwood, who was my constituent and my friend. His illness seemed such a cruel and unnecessary agony for his magnificent wife, Lola, and for his family and friends. But there was something about his illness which summed up a lot of his life, for he died fighting for his life, however thin its thread, as in his life he fought for those things which he believed made life worthwhile, however thin their thread might have been in popular estimation. He did not seek to be popular. He was little interested in image. He stirred people up because he stood for things. He stood for things because he had beliefs and values and because he had courage. He won, I believe, the ultimate accolade of public liferespect. In a world where few are remembered long, we will remember him. We will remember him for his integrity, his intelligence, his ideals, his mixed feelings of pain and pleasure at being so misunderstood in the popular image. 
I remember the huge and boyish enthusiasm he found for his new and, on the face of it, unlikely portfolio of Environment, Housing and Community Development. He quickly decided that in moving from the area of AttorneyGeneral to Environment, Housing and Community Development he had not, in fact, moved from the sublime to the ridiculous. He announced that now he would show all those people who had thought of him as a stuffy lawyer that he was a greenie too. We will remember him for the great warmth of his private personality, which would surprise those who knew only his somewhat austere public image, and for the strong emotions which were so easily overlooked in Ivor Greenwood. We will remember the way he strode around this place with such determination, the set of his shoulders, the head held high, the wry smile. We will remember his dedication to his work in the public interest, a dedication which, as we now so tragically know, cost him so dearly. We think of his superb wife who meant so much to him. We will remember him as an Australian who would stand up, even if he had to stand utterly alone, for his beliefs. We will remember him as a great Australian. 
-This is a bee of a problem. Indeed I understand that the honourable member for Holt brought bees into the Australian Capital Territory. The Apiaries Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory, which was introduced in 1928, provides that bees should be regulated. It further provides that bees entering the Territory need my consent. What is more, they need my prior consent. I further understandand this is all contained in a document issued by my Director of Conservation and Agriculture-that the bees must first accompany their application for entry with a signed certificate of health. 
I further note- this is very important in view of the fact that you,  Mr Speaker,  and the  President  of the Senate uphold the dignity and decorum of the Parliament and control the parliamentary gardens and so on- that landholders must notify my Department if foreign bees enter their territory. My understanding is that the bees have been placed in the parliamentary gardens. I have not yet received any notification from either the  President  of the Senate or you,  Mr Speaker,  about the entry of foreign and unregistered bees into your gardens. I think there is one very important final question which needs to be asked and that is: Does parliamentary privilege apply to bees in the precincts of Parliament or, to put it more briefly, are parliamentary bees privileged bees? 
Pursuant to section 24 of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957 I present the annual report of the National 
Capital Development Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no readily available means of determining how many building industry employees are leaving Canberra. 
While there has been a significant falling off in housing construction over the last few months this must be viewed in the knowledge that the housing sector of the building industry experienced a period of peak activity up to the end of 1975. The number of dwellings completed in the A.C.T. in 1974-75 was 5231; in 1975-76, 5069; and in 1973-74, 3858. It appears likely that completions in the current financial year will be about 3700. The point is that this is sufficient to meet Canberra's current and estimated needs. 
Between July 1973 and early 1975 few business sites were released to private enterprise. This has caused a downturn in construction projects other than housing. Since December 1 975 the government has accelerated the disposal of land for business purposes and a considerable amount of construction work will follow as a consequence. 
Action has been taken to facilitate opportunities for appropriate industries to come to Canberra thus providing additional construction work and employment opportunities. The business community with my support, has established the Canberra and Region Development Committee which is also pursuing investment possibilities. 
Information available indicates that rentals of privately-owned housing have stabilised and in some cases, particularly for high quality, expensive homes, rental levels have been reduced. 
There has been an increase in the number of unsold houses on the market but precise figures are not available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, but the reference to interest rates relates to sales of State Housing Authority houses. 
Yes. 
Until August 1973 no means test was applied for eligibility for tenancy of government housing in the Australian Capital Territory. In the States, government rental housing has been provided predominantly to means tested applicants. 
The means test operating in the Australian Capital Territory is more generous than that applied in the States under the Housing Agreement 1973. 
Average male weekly income (seasonally adjusted) in Canberra is approximately $40 higher than the Australian average. 
Tenants of government houses in the Australian Capital Territory on low incomes receive rental rebates which are also more generous than rental assistance provided in the States. 
Against this background it is reasonable to establish rents of government-owned houses in the Australian Capital Territory at the level required to amortise capital at 9 'A per cent interest over 53 years and to recoup the costs of administration. 
The result is that in a Territory in which average male weekly earnings amount to $216 per week, tenants with ability to pay will be charged reasonable rentals averaging around $30 per week while those in need are benefited by the Rental Rebate Scheme. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The matter has been referred to the Legislative Assembly for advice. 
Inquiry into Transport Undertakings (Question No. J 181) 
Pursuant to section 38 of the Australia Council Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Australia Council for 1974-75. The report contains a list of grants made by the Australia Council and its predecessor, the Australian Council for the Arts, during 1974-75 and financial statements relating to the Australia 
Council's operations during the period from when it became a statutory authority on 13 March 1975 to 30 June 1975. 
I did not catch the first part of the honourable member's question but I take it that he was asking whether there is provision for bicycle tracks in the Australian Capital Territory. There is already quite extensive provision of bicycle tracks in the Australian Capital Territory, probably as much as if not more than anywhere else in Australia. We take this matter seriously and will ensure that future planning makes provision for bicycle tracks wherever possible. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consideration is at present being given to introducing restrictions on the sale of unapproved child restraints and to the feasibility of legislation requiring the wearing of approved restraints where fitted. 
-There appears to be no limit to the form that demonstrations might take on the lawns outside Parliament House. I have just had lunch with representatives of the Royal Insurance Company whose manager every Christmas for 30 years has been demonstrating on the lawns outside Parliament House by holding carols by candlelight. This practice of demonstrating outside Parliament House is now far more widespread and is regarded as a sort of sideshow adjunct to the proceedings of this House. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of the Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
I seek the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate on this Bill, the Public Service Amendment Bill 1976 and the Public Service Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 as they are associated measures. Separate questions, of course, will be put on each of these Bills at the conclusion of the debate. Therefore, I suggest that the House permits the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
If I might also be irrelevant for a moment, I shall respond to the question asked of me by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  It is a fact that in the Aus.tralian Capital Territory the Government has acted to provide for long service leave for private employees. But we did not provide for long service leave which was quite as generous as some people would have wished. We provided, as a legislative requirement, for long service leave which is as generous as exists throughout the private sector over most of Australia. It is not equal to the conditions enjoyed by Commonwealth public servants or by a number of the public services of the country. But it has been done and it is something which I know was being pursued by the honourable member for Wills who has just spoken. We got there. 
It is 2 shots to us. That remark from the honourable member I think sums up the spirit of this debate where there has been some agreement on all sides. There has been only goodwill for this legislation from all sides. I do, on behalf of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, that is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  thank honourable members for their contribution. The Minister was unable to be in the chamber tonight but he came in and he is aware of the fact that the Opposition is supporting this legislation. He has asked me to say that he will take full account of what has been said by honourable members. A matter, which was drawn to my attention and which I shall mention before making a brief concluding remark, concerns Commonwealth public servants who are transferred to Darwin. As I understand it, there is no question but that they will enjoy full, normal rights of promotion from Darwin into positions elsewhere in the Commonwealth Public Service throughout Australia. Promotion, as honourable members know, is based on merit. If justice is not done, then the appeals procedures which apply in normal Commonwealth Public Service cases are open to people who have been transferred to Darwin. So, as a matter of fact in law their rights are preserved. 
I am told that that is, in fact, the position. I must say that I can understand people's fears when they move to distant parts whether they are with a Territory Public Service or simply with an arm of the Commonwealth Public Service in an area which happens to be relatively remote. I think people often fear these things without their fear necessarily being based on fact or law. It is not unnatural for people to have these sorts of fears as was noted in the case of people who live around the lake in the Australian Capital Territory. They fear what might happen when there is a delegation in authority in certain areas to the Legislative Assembly. I thank the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  for his comments. I could not agree more about the need to reassure Commonwealth public servants presently working in areas which will be delegated to the Legislative Assembly, that their rights and their futures will be fully preserved. It is worth pointing out that in the case of the Capital Territory we are not proposing anything like statehood such as is proposed for the Northern Territory. People who work here will be working for a Commonwealth territory administration as far as I am concerned forever and a day. Everything we do here will be done under the Commonwealth Constitution, in accordance with the powers of this Parliament and solely within the powers of this Parliament. So we are looking at Commonwealth territory legislation. With those few words I again thank honourable members for their most constructive comments. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)When the last 2 speakers, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  made comments which were irrelevant, a tremendous temptation was created for the Chair. Fortunately, I remembered the biblical injunction and I resisted the temptation to make a comment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I have 4 amendments which relate to schedule 1 which reads: 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate on this Bill and on the Apple and Pear Levy Collection Bill, the Apple and Pear Export Charge Bill, the Apple and Pear Export Charge Collection Bill and the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Amendment Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 5 Bills to be debated together. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Amendments to the Motor Traffic Ordinance to require the fitting of seat belts in vehicles manufactured prior to 1 974 are being considered. 
b ) Vehicle owners have been advised for some time at the point of registration on the inherent dangers of incorrect wearing and fitting of seat belts. 
and (d) Implementation of both these recommendations would best be handled by first requiring fitment to new vehicles. Agreement within the framework of the Australian Transport Advisory Council would be the first step in the process leading to amendment to the Australian Design Rules. It would be inappropriate for the initiatives in this regard to be taken in the A.C.T. but the A.C.T. would be pleased to be involved in any studies. 
A review of seat belt legislation as it applies to the Australian Capital Territory has been initiated. 
Royal Commission on Petroleum  (Question No. 1415) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Substantial alterations were made to the Ordinance by amendment No. 19 of 1973. When amendments which are currently being drafted are introduced early in 1977 the Weights and Measures Ordinance will reflect policy which has been developed and it should require no further amendments for some years. 
and (5) The present establishment is a superintendent and two inspectors. One inspector recently moved to the Northern Territory on promotion and a recommendation for the appointment of his replacement has been made to the Public Service Board. The creation of other positions of inspector has to be considered in the context of current staff ceilings. 
Authoritative information is not available. 
and (7) Yes. The construction of a new laboratory and associated facilities has been given Priority A in the Department 's request to the NCDC for new works in financialyear 1977-78. Subject to the availability of funds to the Commission it is expected that the new laboratory will be in operation in the latter half of that financial year. 
United Nations: Declaration on Human Settlements (Question No. 1607) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of the Capital Territory has been reviewing the establishment of occasional care centres. One proposal being examined would reorganise the staffing of the centres to provide improved management and operation. This would require the substitution of an administrative position at each centre for the Teacher-in-Charge position which is very largely concerned with administrative duties. 
Any changes made in the staffing at occasional care centres will be based primarily on the interests of A.C.T. children and their parents. 
Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong  (Question No. 1448) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The general principle followed by the Department of the Capital Territory in managing land set aside for recreational purposes is that it should be available to as many people and uses as are consistent with its primary use (if any) and with protection of the area as an asset. Because it is public land no distinction is made as to the nature or identity of the persons or groups using such an area for recreational uses provided the basic management principles are observed. If any conflict emerges these are settled by conference between the user groups. If there are special and identifiable costs involved the Department endeavours to recover these costs. 
No. 
See the answer to ( 1 ) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
The costs of each presentation by the Canberra Theatre Trust over the last5 years are set out in the attached schedule. 
The gross ticket revenues in respect of each presentation over the last 3 years are set out in the attached schedule. 
) Yes to both questions. 
Yes. 

 Mr L. W. Engledow (Canberra Theatre Trust),  Mr T.  Z. Whitgob (Canberra Theatre Trust and Canberra Opera Society),  Mr D.  Walsh (Canberra Children's Theatre Inc. and the Arts Council (ACT Division)). 
5 ) Yes, but subject to the involvement of others also. 
It is not considered that conflict of interest arises. The procedures followed within the Commonwealth Public Service prevent this. 
The number of tickets given away by the Canberra Theatre Trust over the last five years are shown in the attached schedule. 
It is not possible to provide the names of recipients of tickets. The categories of recipients comprise: 
Press and radio reviewers and media representatives, both local and interstate. 
Representatives of other theatrical and concert managements, local, interstate and overseas. 
VIP's, including Government representatives and overseas visitors. 
Representatives of an Embassy with which an attraction is specifically connected. For example, for the Ensemble Nipponia the Japanese Ambassador is invited; for the Royal Shakespeare Company the British High Commissioner is invited. 
Recipients contractually stipulated up to a certain number by a partnership management. 
In addition tickets which it is known would otherwise remain unused are sometimes offered to persons from the following groups: 
Senior citizens, incapacitated persons, convalescents, brought specially to the theatre. 
Personnel of hospitals and the Armed Forces. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Reports made to the Australia Council include sixmonthly audited and certified accounts including statement of income and expenditure and balance sheet; six-monthly 8-page audit questionnaire, completed by the organisations 's auditors, dealing with internal financial controls and compliance with conditions of grant; annual submission for funding containing assessment of organisation's activities and comparative financial and other data for previous, current and following years. 
Funds granted are applied to the mounting of performances and tours and to administrative costs in accordance with the conditions of grant. Such funds are not isolated in their utilisation from funds from other sources, but their receipt is accounted for separately in the financial reports referred to in ( 1 ). 
Total figures for unpaid attendances are supplied to the Australia Council on an annual basis. Names of persons receiving free tickets are not supplied. 
Free tickets are not normally given to pensioners and children, but tickets at reduced prices are available to these groups. 
TO (11) Changes TO (11) Changes have recently been made in relation to the distribution of certain Commonwealth film activities and the information sought is not presently readily available. However, it will be obtained and it shall be provided in writing to the honourable member as soon as practicable. 
Almost every film made in Australia has a different investment structure and some films are made without the participation of the Australian Film Commission. The Commission is not able to supply the details requested for films in which it has not participated. In general terms, however, it is true to say that in the commercial sector, the exhibitors' share of the box-office dollar is approximately 65 per cent with the distributors' share being the remaining 35 per cent. The distributors in turn pass on varying percentages to producers and investors. In Australia, actors and directors generally receive a fixed fee which is paid out of the production budget and, therefore, they do not share in box-office receipts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) NIDA is an independent institute and, although it receives assistance from the Commonwealth Government through the Australia Council, it alone is responsible for the conduct of its internal affairs and its day-to-day administration. 
) and (3 ) See answer to ( 1 ). 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Fire Brigade for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 20 September 1 976  Mr John  Hunter the then  President  of the ACT. Rugby Union wrote to me requesting a grant to enable the A.C.T. Rugby Union to participate in the National Rugby Championship in 1977.I replied indicating that under present budgetary constraints the Department of the Capital Territory was not able to make funds available to assist sporting organisations with touring costs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The A.C.T. Consumer Affairs Bureau is at present considering the most appropriate way of prohibiting the sale of child car seats and harnesses not certified to comply with Australian Standard 1754. This is as a result of a request from the A.C.T Consumer Affairs Council which is concerned about the sale of unapproved restraining devices in the Territory. 
The Bureau is considering whether action can be taken under existing legislation or whether new legislation will be required. In the latter case the alternatives of specific legislation for child car seats and harnesses or general consumer product safety legislation will be examined. 
Any restrictions imposed will be made known as soon as the necessary legislation is gazetted. In the interim the Consumer Affairs Council has issued a press release advising the public on how to select the approved restraining devices. 
The Department of the Capital Territory will introduce legislation to amend the Motor Traffic Ordinance 1936 to require the wearing of approved restraints where fitted as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) No date by which the new and permanent Parliament House will be fully operational has yet been established. This will be a decision of the Government at the appropriate time. 
A period of approximately 10 years after the establishment of requirements would be needed for design and construction of the first stage of the building. 
to (8) The matters raised by the honourable member relating to the details of planning the new Parliament House 
The decision which I made concerning the mosque is in no way related to the matters touched upon by the honourable member. The decision was based entirely upon the residential nature of the district in which the proposed development was to take place. I will be notifying my reasons in writing shortly. 
It is awfully interesting that today the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  talked in this House about nearly everything but federal elections and federal electorates. He told us that in the States there are circumstances which he would regard as undemocratic. I would have to agree with him in that proposition. Historically speaking, I think there is little doubt that State governments, whether non-Labor or Labor, have left something to be desired when it comes to creating democratic electoral systems. It is a matter of great interest that we have been treated to a lengthy argument which almost entirely revolves on the situation as it obtains in the States and which ignores the situation for which this Parliament and the Federal Government are responsible. This situation is not only democratically defensible but is a democratic and a known democratic system. The honourable member for Port Adelaide would be well advised, in turning his attention to the States, to examine closely the situation in South Australia. The Don Dunstan Government has created a situation which is, on the face of it, democratic, but which, on close examination, turns out to be as undemocratic as one could get. It will take the non-Labor parties as many votes to beat the Dunstan Government at future elections as it took Don Dunstan 's Party to defeat the Playford Government. The Labor Government in South Australia, as the boundaries have been drawn, could be returned to office with 46 per cent of the vote. There is nothing in any way democratic about that sort of proposition. 
I stand here today not to defend undemocratic practices such as that perpetrated in South Australia. I shall come back to the South Australian example if I have time. In the States the situations have not always borne scrutiny right down through the years, whether the governments were Labor or non-Labor. In this House and in this Parliament, electoral justice has been delivered to the people by successive Federal governments. The sad thing is that the Labor Party cannot get over the fact that it simply cannot win a majority of Australian votes. That is its problem. The people simply do not vote for it, by and large. When a majority of the people vote for Labor, Labor is in government, as was the case in 1972 and 1974. When Labor gets majority support at federal elections it wins those elections. The sad thing is that it rarely gets that sort of majority support. This is the old Labor whinge, in the search for scapegoats- the suggestions of electoral injustice. What poppycock. All independent observers agree that through the years the basic electoral system, as practised in the federal sphere, has been fair and just. 
The Government certainly believes in the basic democratic proposition that one vote equals one value. We have amended the Electoral Act recently in this Parliament. We made only one small change to Labor's Electoral Act, a change which was designed to ensure that seats suffering the disadvantage of distance should not be further disadvantaged by overall numbers. The fact remains that we stuck by the proposition that no seat should vary from the quota by more than 10 per cent up or down. The approach of the Government is entirely fair and democratic. Our approach takes account of distance but does not treat the demands of distance as an excuse to introduce an unfair or undemocratic electoral system. 
Let us look at Labor's record. We all remember how many records Labor made and broke in its 3 fantastic years in government. Labor's record even in this House when in government is enough to make I think even the honourable member for Port Adelaide blush. If Labor knows one thing, it knows this much at least- that there are many ways of killing the cat. Some might say that is what members of the Labor Party are engaged in at the present time in their party room. When in office Labor introduced reasonable criteria for the drawing of electoral boundaries by providing for the 10 per cent variation from the quota. The present Government, as is obvious, has generally supported what Labor did. I refer to the recent amendments that the Government has made to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
Other events have made it plain that the Labor Party's proposal was merely the window dressing of democracy. While dressing the window like this, Labor sought to destroy the most central proposition of all- that one vote should have one value. Labor tried to change the Constitution when it was recently in office to make electorates comprise equal numbers of people instead of equal numbers of voters. Labor's move would at one stroke have made democratic elections impossible in Australia. Labor sought at that time to enshrine itself in office at the expense of our democratic electoral system. Instead of counting voters, Labor would have counted the youngest babies, it would have counted children, it would have counted visitors to the country, it would have counted unnaturalised migrants and it would have counted aliens. It would have counted all of those categories of people instead of voters. Nothing in democratic theory has ever supported Labor's approach. No respectable democratic theorist has ever put the sort of proposition that led the recent Labor Government to seek to change the Constitution to bring about that result. 
Members of the Opposition have the hide to come into this House and talk about electoral gerrymanders when in their time in office they sought to destroy the very democratic basis of the electoral system which-we heard the words from the honourable member for Port Adelaide- is based on the proposition that one vote has one value. That is the principle that we have preserved in our recent amendments to the Electoral Act. That is what Labor sought to destroy when it was in government in this country recently. 
I have mentioned the electoral system in South Australia. Let us go back and look at the 'Donnymander' that has taken place in that State. I have put the proposition, which has been carefully worked out, that with 46 per cent of the vote the Don Dunstan Government could be returned in South Australia. What the Dunstan Government has done in South Australia illustrates the real nature of gerrymander. There is the question of the definition of the word 'gerrymander'. There are many ways that one can describe a gerrymander. But the traditional way is to explain that gerrymander is derived from the word salamander', Governor Gerry and all that. The original approach takes account of the fact that boundaries can be so drawn as to totally distort an electoral situation. That has nothing to do with criteria but relates to the precise way in which boundaries have been drawn. This is what has been done in South Australia. Boundaries have been drawn so as to bring about a result which is good for Labor, which enshrines that Party in office and which makes it extraordinarily difficult for non-Labor to defeat Labor in future elections. This is not an impossible task but it will be extraordinarily difficult. 
The question of the way in which boundaries are drawn in South Australia has produced a situation where there are 2 categories of electoratesmetropolitan and non-metropolitan. Without the instruction that we have given in our recent changes to the Electoral Act it is most interesting to notice that the distribution commissioners in South Australia have in fact put most country or non-metropolitan seats under quota. Without having had an instruction they have done it anyway. So what is the honourable member for Port Adelaide whingeing about in terms of what we have put in our recent amendments to the Electoral Act? The situation is that 12 of the 14 non-metropolitan seats have been placed under quota and only two are over quota in South Australia, and those two are only marginally over quota. In the case of the 33 metropolitan electorates10 are under quota but the big majority of 23 are over quota. The smallest metropolitan district or electorate is only 3.84 per cent under quota. Eight out of 14 nonmetropolitan districts are placed more than 3.84 per cent under quota. So the distribution commissioners in South Australia have brought about in that area the sort of result which we have simply placed in the Act. This is no great matter. It is a matter of practice; normal in terms of Australian electoral approaches. 
What we have sought to preserve is the clear proposition that one vote shall have one value and that no seat shall be more than 10 per cent above quota or less than 10 per cent below quota. When we look at the way in which the Commonwealth electoral system works in practice it is no wonder that the honourable member for Port Adelaide spent nearly all of his time in this debate talking about what happens in the States, a matter for which this Parliament is not responsible. There is no reason on earth why this Parliament should be responsible for the electoral systems of the States. However good or bad they might be, they are matters for the States. 
As in so many things, the Labor Party when in office sought to destroy the federal nature of our Constitution. Labor would have done so in respect of electoral matters had it received the consent of the people which, thank God, it has not received yet. Labor would have sought to change the Constitution in respect of all matters under the Australian sun. Down through the years the Australian electoral system at the national level has been regarded as fair, just and democratic. Recent changes to the system by this Government have in no way disturbed those propositions. I find it of great interest that very little of what the honourable member said in any way suggested that we have moved from those central propositions. We will hear a great deal more about this matter. The reason we will hear constant cries about this matter in this Parliament is that Labor in its endless search for scapegoats must come down with propositions like this based on fantasy in terms of the federal sphere, however well based they are throughout the rest of Australia. These are matters about which we will hear again and again, they are matters on which there is no basis for fair and factual judgment. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
CSIRO has no budget allocation for and is not carrying out any research into 
the effects of waste products of nuclear reactors on organic matter, or 
b) methods for the disposal of nuclear waste products. 
The short answer is no. My intervention, if it may be called that, in the question of the supply of milk in the Capital Territory led to the A.C.T. Milk Authority being asked to arrange in a very normal fashion for public tenders to be called for the supply of milk in which price would be the major factor in the awarding of contracts but not the only factor. Other factors such as the quality of milk and regularity of supply were also to be taken into account. In pursuit of that direction the Authority called tenders and it has now announced the results of those tenders. Owing to factors which are in no way related to the criteria which the Authority drew up, milk will, of course, be more expensive in the Territory. The major reason for that, of course, is that the price of milk in Victoria increased substantially recently. In a fairly short time the actual new price of milk to the consumer will be announced. But I stress that that has nothing whatsoever to do with the system of tendering which has been agreed to. In fact the system of tendering which had been used before the recent change provided that the more expensive milk which was offered to the Territory was that which was most taken up by the Territory. The system of tendering which we have introduced provides, of course, that price is now the major factor, thus keeping costs down as far as possible to the Canberra consumer. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
Yes. 
)  Mr Macphillamy  is not a member of the Liberal Party. 
No. 
No. 
6 ) Not applicable in view of answer to question ( S ). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In March 1976, the Consumer Affairs Council of the Australian Capital Territory recommended that legislation be introduced within the A.C.T. to regulate the activities of the credit agencies operating in the A.C.T. 
In response to this recommendation and pursuant to my powers under sub-section 11 (2) of the Consumer Affairs Ordinance 1973, I requested the Council to carry out a fact finding investigation into the extent to which consumers had been, or believed they had been, refused credit in the A.C.T. as the result of an unfair or inaccurate credit report 
As part of its investigation the Council invited confidential submissions from members of the public who believed they had suffered as a result of the activities of credit reporting agencies. 
The Council advised me late in November 1976 of the results of the investigation and made recommendations in the light of the investigation that a system of control be introduced in the A.C.T. 
Briefly, the recommended scheme follows the informal arrangements which have been introduced in New South Wales by the N.S.W. Privacy Committee in co-operation with sections of the N.S.W. finance industry. 
I have accepted these recommendations in principle and have asked the Director of Consumer Affairs to examine the feasibility of establishing such a scheme in the A.C.T. 
) When the Director of Consumer Affairs has completed his examination, which will involve discussions with relevant industry representatives, the Director will prepare a final report which will be appended to the preliminary report and recommendations of the Council. The complete report will be forwarded to the A.C.T. Legislative Assembly for consideration. It will also be circulated to interested groups in the community for comment. 
Copies of the final document will be forwarded to the Australian Law Reform Commission for comment. 
The Director of Consumer Affairs will be examining the Bill introduced in the Canadian House of Commons on 22 October 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Drivers of official vehicles are personally responsible for the immediate reporting to the Transport Section of the Department of the Capital Territory any defects detected in vehicles and must not drive a vehicle while a defect exists which could render it unsafe for driving. 
No details are kept of any reportings which may have been a consequence of a request by the A.C.T. Division of the Council of the Australian Government Employee Organisations. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The approximate number of householders in Canberra at the end of 1975 and 1976 was 56 000 and 60 000 respectively. 
The number of excess water rates accounts forwarded to Canberra ratepayers during 1975 and 1976 was 22 961 and 1 7 400 respectively. A dissection of these figures into the various categories of leases including householders is not available. 
The total revenue received from Canberra ratepayers for excess water rates during 1975 and 1976 was $327,294.17 and 291,814.44 respectively. Again separate figures for the various types of leases are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The estimated cost of school bus travel in the A.C.T. for 1976-77 is $1,750,000. The estimated revenue from school bus fares for 1976-77 is $295,000. 
The new fare structure will decrease the government subsidy by the amount of fare revenue. 
(a) Yes. 
Charges for school bus travel in the smaller Australian capitals are Hobart 10c, Perth 10c or a $12 term ticket, Adelaide a monthly concession ticket ranging from $1.50 to $4.50 depending on distance travelled. Brisbane has no special school bus fare system. Canberra fares are 10c per ride or a $10 term ticket. 
Canberra residents are not treated differently. 
Inspection and Treatment of vessels  (Question No. 333) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The Foundation for Youth is an independent private organisation. Information of this kind should more appropriately be sought from the Foundation's Executive. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) The Canberra Showground Trust, as the Statutory Authority responsible for the management and development of the Showground, is at present considering alternative lighting plans for trotting at the Showground. 
One of the options being considered by the Trust includes the erection of lighting poles on the inner arena. 
The Trust is aware of the concern of some users and is already discussing alternatives, costs and user implications with interested organisations. 
I will not direct the Trust in these matters. To do so would be to reduce those management intitiatives which are intended ultimately to make the Trust financially independent of Government. 
It is a matter of great regret that Donald Smith is not singing with the Australian Opera today. He is Australia's greatest tenor; indeed he is one of the world 's greatest tenors. Honourable members would know that the engagement of singers is not a matter for the Government but for the Australian Opera Company. However, I have received representations from a number of members of this House, and especially over a period of time from the honourable member for St George, and I have had discussions with both the company and  Mr Smith.  I have been assured by the company that proposals for guest appearances in 1977 and 1978 are to be made to  Mr Smith.  Both the company and  Mr Smith  have indicated that they are prepared to compromise over their past differences, and I hope that we shall soon hear Don Smith sing again for the Australian Opera. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Bed Sheeting Bounty Bill 1977 and the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Amendment Bill 1977 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish a Tertiary Education Commission to develop and recommend policies on the basis of Commonwealth financial support for institutions in the whole post-school sector of education throughout Australia. The Commission will be concerned with balanced and co-ordinated development and encouragement of diversified opportunities in post-school education. The new Commission will play a significant role in shaping and influencing the future character of post-school education in Australia. To achieve this goal the three existing education commissions- the Universities Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education and the Technical and Further Education Commission- will be replaced by 3 Councils of the same names. These Councils will preserve much of the essential qualities of the existing commissions while working with and being subject to the co-ordinating functions and authority of the new Tertiary Education Commission. 
The title of the new Commission is a matter which has been given careful consideration and, in the interests of avoiding awkward and negative names such as 'post-secondary' or 'postschool' commission, the title 'Tertiary Education Commission' has been adopted. This decision implies, for the purposes of the Bill, a change in the meaning of the term 'tertiary education* as it has generally been used in Australia. 'Tertiary education' has normally been used to include only those studies which require, as a minimum entry level, completion of the full secondary school course; that is, university and college of advanced education courses almost exclusively. For the purposes of this Bill 'tertiary education' will also encompass the wide range of courses in the technical and further education area. The terms 'primary, secondary and tertiary education' will thus be used for the Commonwealth's purposes as purely descriptive terms, with 'tertiary education' comprising university education, advanced education and technical and further education. I believe that this is a tidier scheme of nomenclature than the present usage, and it is more consistent with international statistical usage. 
The decision to establish a new commission was taken in pursuance of the Government 's preelection education policy which drew attention to the problems of co-ordination between the existing commissions. The question of what form the new commission should take has been under careful examination for some time, and has been the subject of consultations with a wide range of interested parties. The new arrangements were discussed by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  with the State Ministers for Education earlier this year; and in the process of drafting the present Bill comment has been obtained from State authorities and from people eminent within the post-secondary education sector, including the Chairmen of the existing commissions. All political parties accept the need for co-ordination in the tertiary area. The questions of appropriate mechanisms and the involvement or otherwise of technical and further education constitute points of variance. 
The Tertiary Education Commission represents a major advance on earlier proposals for 3 main reasons: Firstly, it will include the important area of technical and further education; secondly, it recognises the distinct nature and status of each of the three post-school sectors; and thirdly, it obliges the Commission to consult with appropriate State authorities in the performance of its functions. To exclude technical and further education from the co-ordinating mechanism would be to fail to appreciate the inevitable working interface between colleges of advanced education and institutions of technical and further education and the continuous need to rationalise functions between the two. It would ignore also the need to upgrade the role of technical and further education in the postschool sector. It is the Government's firm intention to devote special attention to technical and further education, which has been for too long the area of least consideration to governments in post-school education, particularly in the allocation of resources. The new Commission will have an important role in the development of these resources and of co-operative arrangements with the States for the support of technical and further education. 
To assist the new Commission in the performance of its functions, the legislation will provide for a separate Universities Council, Advanced Education Council and Technical and Further Education Council, which will be statutory bodies. The status of these councils will give recognition to the special requirements of each sector. The councils will have the right of investigation and will be expected to conduct detailed negotiations with institutions and authorities. They are to be regarded as important and authoritative sources of advice and contact in their own sector and their views will be made known both to the Minister and to the Commission. The rolling triennial reports of the Commission will incorporate in full the reports of the councils to the Commission. Clause 37 of the Bill provides for the right of each Council, in addition to responding to requests from the Minister or the Commission, to inquire into and advise the Minister upon whatever matters it wishes within its own sector of education. Wherever a Council gives advice to the Minister it is to make that advice available to the Commission also. It is important for the future quality of education that those essentially distinctive and authentic characteristics of the various types of tertiary institutions should be preserved and developed, while recognising that the nature of individual units will change and evolve and the need for new-type institutions will emerge. The existence of the 3 councils in association with the coordinating Commission will provide these opportunities. 
The Tertiary Education Commission will have a most important task of co-ordination across the whole area of tertiary education. It will work closely with authorities in the States and will cooperate with them in promoting effective use of resources. Within the Commission's structure, the inter-relationship between the Commission and its councils is supported by the interlocking provisions of clause 9 dealing with reports by the Commission and clause 37 covering advice from the councils. The Commission will consist of a full-time  Chairman,  3 other full-time members and 5 part-time members. A full-time Commissioner will be  chairman  of each council. The 5 other members of the Commission will be parttime and will be drawn from widely representative sections of the community as a balance to the specialist interests of the full-time members. Each council will comprise, in addition to its  chairman,  up to 8 part-time members. These arrangements will assist the Commission in its coordinating role, while at the same time enabling each council to have a significant measure of freedom to decide and act within its own area of specialisation. 
I would like to emphasise the point made in clause 9(1) that the Commission will be obliged to consult with the relevant State authorities in the performance of its functions and is expected to consult with other Commonwealth and State education bodies. The Government will be paying particular attention to the development of cooperative arrangements with the States. We are well aware of their responsibilities in the whole education field and of their importance to the achievement of rationalisation and co-ordination of the funding of post-school education. Clause 44 (5) of the Bill ensures in particular that the States must be consulted by the Commission before it makes recommendations as to whether a particular institution should be classified as a university or college of advanced education for the purposes of the Act. Honourable members will be aware that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has written to the 6 State Premiers inviting the States to participate at the Education Ministers level in detailed discussions with the Commonwealth with the aim of achieving a more effective co-partnership in the whole field of education. Such talks would include the development of any further co-operative measures among Commonwealth and State agencies which might be necessary to strengthen the functioning of the Tertiary Education Commission and its components. 
I am confident that the new arrangements will permit a truly co-ordinated approach to the funding by the Commonwealth of post-school educational institutions and will provide effective means for preventing wasteful duplication and overlap. The new Commission will maintain close contact with the Williams Committee on Education and Training which is currently inquiring into the future goals of education in terms of human fulfilment and career development. That committee is expected to report to the Government next year. Its findings and recommendations will be of particular significance to the future work of the Commission. Pending that report, the Commission will have to pursue some more urgent inquiries of its own, for example the use of resources for teacher education. The Williams Committee will be kept informed about significant developments. 
The Government wishes to establish the new Commission as soon as possible so that the benefits it will introduce can be applied to consideration of the post-school programs for the rolling triennium 1978-80. An interim committee of the 3 existing Commissions is already operating to ensure a smooth transition to the new arrangements soon after the Bill is passed. The Tertiary Education Commission will have the final responsibility for recommending programs for the 1978-80 rolling triennium within guidelines which the Government will issue in the near future. Considerable thought has already been given by the Government to the membership of the new Commission and its councils, and I expect that the new appointments will be made by the Governor-General and announced as soon as the Bill has been proclaimed. In the meantime arrangements are being made for short term extensions of currently expiring appointments to existing commissions. I hope that the Bill's passage through the Parliament will be a speedy one, and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Les  Johnson) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill makes special long service leave provisions for New South Wales technical teachers who join the Commonwealth Teaching Service between 31 December 1976 and 1 April 1977 and who were engaged in full time teaching duties in a technical institution in the Australian Capital Territory. Honourable members will recall that in 1976 the Government decided that the teaching staff of the technical colleges in the Australian Capital Territory should be employed under the Commonwealth Teaching Service legislation. Provision for their employment was made in the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act 1976. 
The Bill allows former members of the New South Wales teaching service who were teaching in Australian Capital Territory technical institutions in 1976 and who elected to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service after 3 1 December 1976 and before 1 April 1977 to preserve their long service leave conditions that applied under State legislation in force immediately prior to their joining the Commonwealth Teaching Service and to treat future teaching service as if it were State service for the purposes of that legislation. It also allows the teachers to choose between the better of those provisions just mentioned and those provided for in the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976 including future amendments to that Act. It does not confer eligibility for improvements brought about by changes in State law after the teachers joined the Commonwealth Teaching Service on 31 March 1977 nor does it provide any special benefits for a teacher who joins the Commonwealth Teaching Service after that date. Members of the New South Wales teaching service who taught at technical institutions in the Australian Capital Territory during 1976 and who elect to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service after 1 April 1977 will be subject to the normal provisions of the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976. The Bill contains provisions affecting technical teachers similar to provisions in respect of primary and secondary school teachers who transferred to the Commonwealth Teaching Service in similar circumstances at the end of 1973. 1 believe that this legislation should be given speedy passage by the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Les  Johnson) adjourned. 
It is a fact that the penalty for the use of marihuana in small quantities in the Australian Capital Territory is a maximum fine of $ 100. There is no gaol penalty. I have not been advised of any specific problems that have occurred in the Territory as a result of the fact that there is no gaol sentence for users of small quantities of marihuana. I am not aware either of any representations from the Festival of Light or from anyone else on this matter. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to amend the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act 1976 and the States Grants (Advanced Education Assistance) Act 1976 to provide, in accordance with the established policy and procedural arrangements, supplementary grants totalling $15,612,080 to cover cost increases which have occurred since the 1976 and 1977 programs in respect of colleges of advanced education were adopted. The supplementary grants being provided for the 1976 program comprise $2,834,000 for recurrent expenditure and $1,489,380 for capital expenditure. 
In the case of the 1977 program, the amounts of cost supplementation being provided for in the Bill comprise $7,66 1 ,000 for recurrent expenditure and $3,627,700 for capital expenditure and are based on indices to take account of increases in costs up to December 1976. Adjustments for subsequent cost movements will be required as the relevant indices become available. As the amendments included in the Bill affect the programs detailed in the schedules to the Act, the opportunity has been taken to include in the revised schedules a number of intra-program transfers of funds which have been approved under the provisions of the Acts. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972, the States Grants (Schools) Act 1976 and the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1976 to adjust grants to the States for government and non-government schools. The amended schedules will finalise the adjustment of 1976 grants in respect of cost increases to December 1976 and adjust grants for 1977 to December 1976 prices. The funds appropriated will provide for an increase of $3.3m over the allocations in the existing Acts covering the 1976 program. The adjustment of grants for the 1977 program in respect of cost increases involves an additional appropriation of $ 10.9m. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974 and the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Act 1976 to adjust the approved programs of grants to the States for technical and further education, to provide for cost supplementation to December 1976 price levels. The Bill maintains the real value of grants approved by the Government in the light of known variations in costs since adjustments were made in the Budget sittings last year. 
This Bill completes the cost supplementation process for the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974. The additional amount provided is $0.686m. It also adjusts retrospectively the amounts available within the various schedules in the Act to take account of determinations made by the Minister administering the Act in accordance with sections 16 and 24 of the Act. These determinations were taken to meet the wishes of the States in adjusting the flow of funds available under the various schedules of the Act to suit the particular expenditure needs of the States. An additional $2.762m is being provided for the 1977 program. Further amendments to the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Act 1976 will be necessary as information becomes available on movements in costs during 1977. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the States Grants (Universities) Act 1976 and the States Grants (Universities Assistance) Act 1976 to adjust the approved programs of grants to State universities for the years 1976 to 1977 respectively. The Bill maintains the real value of grants approved by the Government in the light of known variations in costs since adjustments were made in the Budget sittings last year. The additional amounts to be paid to the States have been calculated on the basis of cost levels for the December quarter 1 976 for operating expenses and December 1976 for building expenditure. The additional amounts for 1976 total $7.3m of which $5.3m is for operating expenditure and $2m for building projects. 
In respect of the year 1977 an additional $ 15.9m is provided of which $ 15.6m is for operating expenditure and $300,000 for building projects. Further amendments to the States Grants (Universities) Act 1976, in respect of grants for building projects, and to the States Grants (Universities Assistance) Act 1976 will be required as information becomes available on movements in costs during 1977. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are drug problems amongst various groups in the community and at various institutions including the Australian National University. 
There have been three major investigations conducted by the Australian Capital Territory Police Force into the sale and use of drugs at the Australian National University throughout the past 12 months. 
(3)- 
The above figures have been obtained from records which include occupation at the time each person was charged. Records relate only to the occupation nominated by the person charged. It is possible that some offenders charged could have been part-time students but no members of staff were charged. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The first fellowships were awarded by the Commonwealth Literary Fund in 1939. with effect in 1940. The number of awards year by year from that time is: 
The number of fellowships offered by the Literature Board of the Australia Council, which replaced the Commonwealth Literary Fund in 1973, is: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The maximum penalty available to the Court of Petty Sessions on conviction for either using or having in possession an amount of cannabis less than 25 grams is a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars. 
Response to the second question is qualified by making mention of the fact that prior to October 1975, when certain amendments were made to the Public Health (Prohibited Drugs) Ordinance 1957, details of weight played no specific role, and in consequence no reliable statistics are available. Relevant details between 1975 and 1977 are as follows: 1975 (Oct. to Dec.) 10 charged 10 convicted 1976 49 charged 41 convicted 1977 (to 3 1.3.77) 26 charged 22 convicted. 
MacRobertson Miller Airlines and TAA: Appointment of Arbitrator  (Question No. 799) 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1 930 1 present the statement of receipts and expenditure relating to administration and development of the Australian Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1-5) The statement referred to relates to my decision in the case of an application for a particular lease of land at the rear of the Canberra Mosque on which the Islamic Society wished to erect a cultural and educational centre. The alternatives have been continuously under review to find a generally acceptable solution. 
I have recently discussed with a representative of the Islamic Society the possibility of land being made available adjacent to the Mosque but fronting Empire Circuit. It seems very likely at this juncture that this will provide a mutually satisfactory solution to the matter. 
The National Capital Development Commission's intention would have been to require provision of adequate onsite car parking. In recent years this has been standard practice for any proposed development such as a social club or church that would generate demand for parking if no public car parking areas are available in the vicinity. I have no details of the amount of parking available at the mosques referred to in NSW and Victoria. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Australia Council annual report 1975-76. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There was a substantial clerical error in the information provided, due to the omission of some figures in sorting onto a 1976 calendar basis figures kept on 197S-76 ana 1976-77 financial year basis. The 1976 collection for excess water was approximately $644,000. 
The reading of water meters gives a total usage only. The excess usage is assessed and billed as a supplement to the basic charge. There are only slight clerical and billing costs which relate directly to the recovery of excess water rates but these are not extractable or measurable. 
The total costs relating to water meters and meter readings including billing, collecting, accounting, repairs and maintenance, capital amortisation charges, etc, were estimated at $456,000 during 1976. The total collection in respect of the water supply account was about $3.8m for 1976. This explanation excludes the cost of operation, maintenance and amortisation of the total storage and distribution system. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. I have forwarded the information to the honourable member. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
To answer the honourable member it was necessary for the Australian Film Commission to refer to accounting records compiled by the former Australian Film Development Corporation, the former Australian Council for the Arts, the Australia Council and the Commission itself. This work took longer to complete than I would have wished. 
Assistance to the Arts: Film Production (Question No. 792) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) As an investor in production, the Australian Film Commission and its predecessor, the former Australian Film Development Corporation, shares with the producer under the terms of the distribution contract the amount of information it obtains from distributors and exhibitors on the marketing performance in Australia of those Australian films in which it invested. 
Most recent contracts negotiated by producers with assistance from the Commission include a requirement that gross box office income be notified in future. 
While the Australian Film Commission Act 1975 contains a provision (Section 12) for the Commission to keep itself informed on all aspects of making, promoting, distributing and exhibiting films in Australia, it is not obliged to publish any of this information 
Details of earnings on individual films by the various sectors of the film industry are of critical commercial importance to those private companies in relation to their competitors. For this reason it would seem to be preferable to keep such details confidential. However, I shall be in touch with the honourable member to see to what extent information required by him is available. 
The need for accountability in the disbursement of large sums of public monies to private companies and individuals concerns me greatly and I will discuss with the  Chairman  of the Film Commission the possibility of presenting some financial details on each project in which the Commission is involved when issuing its annual reports in future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question on Notice No. 1003. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The suggestion that parts of the Mount Ainslie-Majura foothills could be developed for residential purposes evolved from the request to the National Capital Development Commission, by the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development, for advice on alternative strategies for constraining future growth within the present Australian Capital Territory borders. 
In response, the Commission has examined all existing and proposed land uses and is considering possible alternative development strategies in order to ascertain where the optimum costs and benefits might lie. The variable factors are housing densities and open space, both of which are the principal determinants of the form of urban development and which are at present defined by the Metropolitan Strategy Plan, more commonly referred to as the Y-Plan. 
On a more general point, I am concerned about the accelerating cost of providing and maintaining city services, particularly the extra costs incurred by extending services to areas well down the Tuggeranong Valley when usable land had been passed over in Inner Canberra, Woden and Belconnen for the purpose of subsequent housing development at medium densities. 
The proposals to develop uncommitted land in Inner Canberra were discussed between the Commission, the Department of the Capital Territory and me, after which public comment was sought in order to obtain an initial public reaction before any firm commitments were made by the Commission or my Department. 
An announcement was made by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, that the regulatory powers in the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 197S should not be used in the Australian Capital and Jervis Bay Territories, but this decision was made on the understanding that legislation of similar breadth would be introduced for these Territories. In fact, a Nature Conservation Ordinance has been drafted and referred to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly for their consideration. The purpose of this Ordinance is to make provision for the protection and conservation of wildlife and for the reservation of land for this purpose. 
I am informed by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development that any significant future proposals for the foothills or other areas of the Australian Capital Territory will be subject to the scrutiny of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974. The object of this Act is to ensure that the significant environmental issues of any Commonwealth action are thoroughly examined before decisions are taken. It was with this object in mind that he directed the preparation of an environmental impact statement on the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority's proposal to extend its 132kv sub-transmission around Belconnen and North Canberra, including the extension along the Mount Ainslie-Majura foothills. 
The extent to which the provision of this Act will be applied to future proposals for areas of national importance will depend on a variety of factors including the form of the proposal, the extent to which environmental matters (in the widest sense of the phrase) have been taken into account and the extent to which public review of the proposals is allowed for or encouraged in any future Australian Capital Territory legislation covering conservation matters. 
The National Capital Development Commission is currently in the process of preparing alternative structure plans for the Mount Ainslie-Majura foothills area, a procedure which involves analysis of all the relevant information including the public submissions. The information will be made available for public comment. 
See answer to (3) above. 
Like many other people in Canberra, I read reports of everything the honourable member says. The people of Canberra are well aware of the depth of the honourable member's interest in Canberra. I am pleased to advise him that on Thursday of this week I shall be making an announcement about the delegation of authority to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. I can assure the honourable member that the community will be consulted most closely about this matter. 
-Pursuant to the provisions of the Parliament Act I present a proposal for the erection of an electrical substation at the rear of the Parliament House. 
I table a paper entitled 'Proposals for the Constitutional Development of the Australian Capital Territory' and seek leave to make a statement relating to the same matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
1973- 74-$5,616,732 
1974- 75-$12,505,963 
1975- 76-$20,955,338 
1976- 77-$22,058,577 
1977- 78-$1 1,967,000 (estimate) 
There are approximately 64,850 dwellings in the Territory which are connected to a sewerage service and this figure represents 95.5 per cent of the total dwellings. 
Yes, all residential dwellings in new sub-divisions are connected to a sewerage service. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (5) Yes, I have seen the report in the Melbourne  Sun  referred to by the honourable member. The speed limit in the Australian Capital Territory is 60 km/h unless zoned otherwise. The maximum zoning speed limit is 80 km/h. The speed limit on the three roads referred to by the honourable member is 80 km/h. The Commissioner for the Australian 
Capital Territory Police has advised me that other than from the article he knows nothing of the incident. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in relation to this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I thank honourable members for the very helpful and constructive debate we have had tonight on a number of matters and in particular for the debate we have had on the acquisitions procedures of the National Gallery. I share the basic sentiments of people like the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short),  the honourable members for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  and, I take it from the brief remarks that he made at the end of his speech, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  on the desirability of keeping politicians out of the process of making judgments on the merits of particular works of art. As the honourable member for Robertson said, I have previously made statements along those lines. I think that there is an element of oddity about a situation in which Ministers and Parliaments bow out of decisions on design and quality of materials for roads and bridges because they do not have expertise in those matters but believe that in something like art they suddenly come into a sort of expertise which they do not even pretend to have in hosts of other areas of life 
One of the joys of tonight's debate is that I think it is suggestive of a developing consensus, at least in the Parliament if not in the broader community, and if not necessarily always throughout our parties at least in this Parliament among articulate and interested members, about the desirability of moving our policy with respect to acquisitions in the direction where at the end of the road the Council of the Gallery will make decisions about the purchases of works of art. If those decisions are properly made within the Budget and if, as the honourable member for Isaacs says, all normal and proper procedures followed by significant galleries are adopted we would not find Ministers and Cabinets rejecting them. I would also accept the remarks of the honourable member for Ballaarat who said that it would be expected that they would make decisions in accordance with the policy which had been agreed to by the government of the day. I do not think that one would want to suggest that there is any politics in that either because in these matters I am delighted to say that there is a remarkable degree of bipartisanship in this Parliament at the moment. 
-The matter of the Braque is closed but I would not treat the question of the role of the Government over particular procedures as one which was not capable of review. I believe that the sorts of suggestions which have been made by honourable members on both sides are ones which I would like at a proper time- I will not put a time limit on it- to take to the Government for consideration. There were features of the Braque purchase which made things very difficult. After the Government had decided that it was unable to accept the recommendation of the Gallery Council, the suggestion was made that perhaps the private sector could come into the act and pick up part of the cost. It was true, as the honourable member for Isaacs said, that regrettably we discovered that there was involved in the purchase a payment about which we had not been informed. This clearly had an influence on our thinking. We have again put to the Gallery the sorts of procedures which we believe need to be followed. My hope is that in the future, if they are followed, we will ultimately be able to avoid the sort of situation which recently occurred. 
-Everything I have done has been in an effort to do just that. I hope that in the months and years ahead we will be able to achieve that, as I think we have achieved it in a number of areas of the arts. For instance, I did not hear any criticism of the recent appointment of the Community Arts Board from any side of politics. I think that that was one that had the support of all parties on all sides of the Parliament. I note that the time for the adjournment is nigh and there are a number of other things I would have liked to have said. In short I simply thank honourable members for what I think has been an extraordinarily constructive debate tonight. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. Progress reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) It is the intention to increase rents so that they will approximate more closely to market levels. This will be done progressively but no particular periods over which adjustments will be made have been set. 
Rents were increased in October 1976 on the basis of market rentals determined by Taxation Office valuers. The market rentals were discounted down to a level which was estimated to be sufficient to cover operating costs including amortisation of 914 per cent interest. 
There was an average increase of approximately 30 per cent in October 1976. Variations from the average depended on age rather than category. 
Market rentals are determined by Taxation Office valuers. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet -Libraries  (Question No. 1346) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report and financial statements of the Australian Film Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No additional taxi licences have been issued in the Australian Capital Territory since 197S. 14 additional hire car plates were issued in 1977. 
Plates for hire cars were distributed on the basis of a ballot of eligible applicants. There is no initial cost and the annual licence fee in each case is charged. For taxi and hire cars this was $ 10 per year but has recently been increased to $20. 
No. (4, 5 and 6) The use of supplementary cars by hire car owners is effected under contractual arrangements which fall outside the provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance and is not an illegal operation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 104(b)22. 
It is difficult to make meaningful comparisons using numbers and areas. Demand varies depending on population density, car ownership levels and life style. The following table gives details about Canberra and five other areas: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No receipt or acknowledgement was immediately issued as applications received for leases are normally processed quickly. Unsuccessful applicants are notified once a decision is made and their deposits are then returned. The delay in consideration of these particular bids resulted from the number received and the necessity for consideration to be given to aspects other than the amounts bid. 
An application was received from  Mr W.  S. Bowd on behalf of Lachlan Constructions Pry Ltd, Glen E. Phillips Pty Ltd, R. J. Jarvie Pty Ltd and C&amp;W Holdings Pry Ltd.  Mr Bowd  was advised by letter on 30 August 1977 that the bid was unsuccessful and arrangements were then instituted for the refund of the deposit lodged with his application. 
See answer to (2). 'The Canberra Times' published a report on 1 7 August 1 977 identifying the successful tenderer. 
After the field was narrowed to two, one was interviewed to afford him the opportunity to enlarge on his application. This applicant was unsuccessful. 
The Department of the Capital Territory maintains confidentiality in respect of applications received for leases and the amounts offered. 
In addition to its formal offer the successful tenderer put forward two alternative proposals neither of which was accepted. 
No special consideration was given to local applicants. In the interests of the community, traders and the Commonwealth it was considered essential that the operator of the first commercial controlled parking area in Canberra be in a position to provide an efficient service and have the expertise to properly manage the operation. Consequently all applications were considered and judged on the basis of the offer submitted, previous knowledge of and experience in parking area management and the applicant's financial capacity. This was in accordance with the published conditions of offer. 
Yes. 
Leases of other parking areas will be offered to the applicant submitting the best package in the terms of ability, knowledge and financial return to the Commonwealth. All applicants will receive equal consideration. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Libraries  (Question No. 1369) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is one main library within the Department; however, due to the Department being located in a number of buildings in the City area and the decentralised nature of many of its activities, several small collections are, under the control of the main library, located in other areas, e.g. Botanic Gardens. 
The purpose of the Departmental Library is to provide officers of the Department with textbooks, journals and reference services which cover all aspects of the Department 's administration. 
-An election for the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly will be held by the end of 1978. The previous Labor Party Minister for the Capital Territory was responsible for extending the life of the Legislative Assembly by a year in his time- the same sort of thing I have done. On this occasion there is a very good reason for taking this action. That reason is that the Government has put forward proposals for the consideration of the Assembly which relate to the granting of delegated authority to it. These proposals are very important and very intricate, and they will involve a great deal of discussion between the Government and members of the Legislative Assembly. It is widely believed by members of the Assembly that this is a proper course of action. As for a precise election date, it is not the practice of those responsible for making these decisions to announce dates before the time. So I simply say that there certainly will be an election before the end of 1 978. 
Action is being taken against those people who are breaking lease purpose clauses where it can be established satisfactorily to the authorities that that is the case. There is, of course, always a great deal of difficulty in obtaining evidence in particular cases. My Department has been deploying staff as appropriate and, where the evidence is clearest, it has been taking action. There is no way in which my Department has been reluctant to take action against those whom it believes have been breaking their lease purpose clauses. In short, the planning procedures in Canberra have not broken down. I would add that, because of the importance of having a hard look at the procedures which operate in the planning of the Australian Capital Territory, I asked the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory some time ago to look at the whole process of planning and the opportunities for public consultation. I will consider all the options which are put before me when I have that report. 
Pursuant to section 24 of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957, 1 present the annual report of the National Capital Development Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Ordinance 1973 I present the annual report on the operations of the Consumer Affairs Council and Consumer Affairs Bureau of the Australian Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908, authorises the publication of the report of the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Council and the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Bureau for the year 1976-77; and that the report be printed. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this BUI I would Uke to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Excise Tariff Amendment Bm (No. 2) 1977 and the States Grants (Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave) Amendment BUI 1977 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the three bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-On 27 October 1977, pursuant to section 17 of the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Ordinance 1 973 - 
-I am tabling a report which is a corrected report because an earlier report had a most unfortunate mistake in it. I am just explaining it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The present per issue subsidy for  Quadrant  is $ 1 ,600. 
and (3) Other literary magazines which are or have been subsidised on a regular per issue basis and their frequency of publication are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question as follows: ()Yes. 
No. That is a matter for the journal and its contributors to determine. 
3 ) Yes.  Mr Peter  Coleman is the editor of  Quadrant. 
No. That is also a matter for the journal to determine. 
The total amount provided by the Literature Board of the Australia Council was $ 1 5,200. 
I shall look into the matters raised by the honourable member and will give him a reply as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
16 May 1977. 
In conformity with the practice of previous Government, IDC reports are not normally made public. 
(a) and (b) Yes. The Government is in sympathy with the idea and is considering it 
The Australia Council has received several lists of building projects over the last three years from appropriate Commonwealth Departments and authorities. Discussions have taken place progressively between appropriate officers and recommendations have been made within the funds available. Since the Australia Council's role is advisory only, it is not considered appropriate to publish its recommendations. 
No State specifically exempts bequests to the Australian National Gallery from death and probate duties. State death duties are not now levied in Queensland. It is possible that bequests to the Australian National Gallery could be exempt from Western Australian death duty under a general provision which applies to bequests to a public educational institution in Australia that is wholly or in pan dependent on any State or Commonwealth grant or subsidy. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian National University Act 1946, I present the report of the Council of the Australian National University for the calendar year 1976. 
Pursuant to section 67 of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1976, I present the report on financial assistance granted to each State under the provisions of that Act. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972, I present the report on financial assistance granted to each State under the provisions of that Act during the financial year 1976-77. 
-Nearly 200,000 citizen band licences have been issued since last year and the introduction of that number of licences has of course led to teething problems. I believe that if the CB users continue to co-operate with the Government in this matter it will be possible for us to iron out the problems. My Department is now seeking extra staff to help to handle the interference problems. Such problems can normally be overcome fairly easily with the advice of local district radio inspectors. 
For some odd reason Telecom likes to refer to its profit as a surplus but the fact is that all Telecom profits are ploughed back into the business of Telecommunications in Australia. It is precisely the fact that these profits are ploughed back which enables extensions to be made to the telecommunications system in Australia. Improvements in rural areas and extensions to the service are made possible precisely because good profits are made by Telecom. The alternative would be a far more costly approach, as I think my colleague the Treasurer would agree. The approach that Telecom has adopted in recent times has meant that the free line plant entitlement has been increased from 12 kilometres to 16 kilometres. As from January a 20 per cent concession on subscriber trunk dialling calls on Sunday has applied and further concessions are envisaged. The Australian Telecommunications Commission will continue to review its tariff structure in the light of costs and other factors and reduce them wherever possible. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Education Research Act 1970, I present the annual report of the Education Research and Development Committee 1976-77, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the report. 
-The Government did say before the last general election that among other measures to assist people in remote areas, it intended to extend the limit for the provision of free telephone line plants from 12 kilometres to 16 kilometres. I am aware of this commitment and I support it. I shall discuss the implementation of the commitment with the Telecommunications Commission and be in touch with the honourable member after I have had those discussions. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act 1 967 1 present the annual report of the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education for the year ended 31 December 1976. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Independent Schools (Loans Guarantee) Act 1969, I present a statement of payments made during the year ended 30 June 1977 in respect of all guarantees given under that Act. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The information requested in respect of the Department of Education is set out below. The information does not include expenditure by statutory authorities within the Education portfolio. 
Yes. 
Department of Foreign Affairs: Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence (Question No. 255) 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Information on the number of young persons returning to school in 1978 because of their inability to find employment has not to my knowledge been collected on a co-ordinated basis. Some details may be held by the principals of individual schools, but it seems unlikely that all students even in a single school would have been systematically canvassed. 
by leave- One of the most recent amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-77 made by the Government- namely section IIIC, enacted in December last year- entrusted the Minister with the responsibility to plan the development of radio and television services in Australia. In accepting this trust, one of the ongoing priorities will be to ensure that this responsibility is undertaken in a manner that will facilitate socially responsive, yet systematic, planning and policy implementation. I am well aware of widespread concern about what has been described as the haphazard ad hockery' of broadcasting planning and regulation since its inception in this country. Whilst I do not intend to take issue with the justification, or otherwise, of such a viewpoint, I am bound to take account of it, voiced as it has been by such a wide range of organisations and interests, both here and outside in the country. 
This statement will be the first of a series in the Government's systematic approach to the development of policy guidelines for the entire broadcasting system. These statements will be designed to keep Parliament and, through it, the public informed of Government intentions and proposed action relating to particular areas of the system. On this occasion, the statement will deal with our intentions as they relate to the planning of public broadcasting. However, before moving on to that particular matter, it is timely to outline the general assumptions and philosophic principles upon which the Government's overall approach to broadcasting planning and development will be based. 
Broadcasting, in the broader context of mass communications structures, is one of the most influential and pervasive social phenomena of our time. It is a phenomenon, moreover, which presents governments of all democratically based nations with a continuing, and not easily soluble paradox. Each country has approached this paradox by adopting a system of broadcasting to meet its own individual geographic, social, economic and cultural problems. In formulating and articulating a clear philosophy on which to base guidelines for policy planning and implementation for Australian conditions, it is necessary to stress that broadcasting- and indeed government attitudes to it- is inextricably linked with matters of national policy. This derives from a number of factors: Firstly, its importance to public information, freedom and expression is crucial. It projects, influences and reflects socio-cultural values and opinions to an extent unrivalled by any other media form. Secondly, this all-pervasive medium of communication is a valuable national resource- in strategic, technological and economic, as well as social, terms. Thirdly, it can be argued that the electromagnetic spectrum- the physical medium by which radio, television and other communications services are delivered- is by no means an inexhaustible, if not a scarce, resource. Therefore, there must be some ultimate arbiter, some final regulatory authority responsible for decisions on matters affecting allocation and utilisation of the component elements of the spectrum, particularly where broadcasting frequencies are concerned. Fourthly, it derives from national, indeed international, regulation of the physical bounds, the broadcasting airwaves and all electromagnetic communications channels- for example, their frequencies, power and points of origin and delivery. Without such regulation, the whole system would be plagued by interference until it degenerated into utter chaos. 
In short, broadcasting is so powerful a social and communications instrument, so valuable a national resource, so crucial to the public interest, that no government can afford to ignore it. The problem for government of course, is the extent to which the system can, or should, be regulated. Where does sensible planning and policy implementation finish, and totalitarian control start? A basic premise accepted by most governments in free societies is that the electromagnetic frequencies- or airwaves- used by broadcasting and in most forms of communications, are public property. That premise leads logically to an assumption that government must accept the role, and attendant responsibilities, of custodian of those airwaves for, and in, the public interest. 
This Government interprets 'public interest ' in terms of a system which must, while remaining economically and administratively viable, be sufficiently flexible and diverse to respond to the very wide range of changing needs implicit within the complexities of Australian society. Therein lies our basic approach as regards broadcasting planning and policy implementation, expressed in these philosophic terms: That government involvement in Australian broadcasting must be directed to ensure freedom of expression and enterprise in all forms of communication available to Australian society, particularly radio and television, and that this freedom is best served by diversity of structures and outlets. However, we also believe that facilitation of freedom of expression and enterprise in broadcasting must be consistent with the onus upon government to make the necessary planning and administrative provisions, to obviate the risk of freedom of expression and enterprise for one sector, or group, being indulged at the expense of others, or of the system as a whole. We believe that this can best be achieved by encouragement of diversity in the airwaves through logical and systematic planning. 
In passing, it should be noted that this approach is in line with a fairly widespread consensus expressed in submissions to two major government-initiated broadcasting inquiries undertaken in this country over the past two years. I refer, of course, to the 1976 departmental inquiry into the structure of the Australian broadcasting system and associated mattersgenerally known as the Green inquiry- and last year's Australian Broadcasting Tribunal inquiry into broadcasting standards and the concept of self-regulation. 
The Government is mindful of the inherent relationship between freedom of expression and a free society. Our view is that this relationship can best be nurtured by the encouragement, wherever possible, of public consultation in the actual planning process. A parallel view is that the free, complex and dynamic society in which we live requires considerable flexibility in the planning process to ensure effective response to changing needs. These views give rise to two essential planning criteria for ministerial planning responsibility under the Broadcasting and Television Act- public consultations and procedural flexibility, both of which have special relevance to the public broadcasting sector. 
The very nature of that sector makes close involvement between public broadcasters and the communities they hope to serve axiomatic. The axiom will be just as applicable to communities comprised of, say, Aboriginal residents or broadcasters of Christian programs. It is accepted that public broadcasters should have a better appreciation of the interests, hence needs, of their broadcasting communities than anyone else, including government. This acceptance is signified by the Government's intention to give every opportunity for those community interests and needs to be articulated during planning processes. But, because public broadcasting is a relatively recent phenomenon in Australia, this acceptance must be tempered with realism. 
This sector of the system is bound to experience considerable growing pains. No doubt there will be a number of potential licensees who will underestimate the needs of, and support they might expect from, their chosen communities. The converse is also inevitable: There are bound to be others who will overestimate the capacity of particular communities to sustain and to devote resources and skills to their own special interest broadcasting stations. These will surely fail. However, any such failures should not be used as a yardstick by which to judge the overall potential or success of the entire public broadcasting sector. The now thriving commercial sector, which has made such great contributions to broadcasting services in Australia over the past half century, also experienced its early failures. But this has not prevented commercial broadcasting from becoming a vital, essential and invaluable part of Australian communications heritage. Nor should any early failures by some public broadcasters prevent this new sector from developing to complement the national and commercial services and to enrich the system as a whole. 
It is expected that early definition of long term strategic objectives for public broadcasting will minimise teething troubles in the early growth years. But it is stressed that such objectives for the public sector cannot be formulated in isolation: They must take into account the structure of the overall broadcasting system and the objectives of the two established national and commercial sectors. Until recently, Australia has been served by what has been termed the 'dual' broadcasting system, which is serviced by national and commercial sectors. With the advent of the handful of public broadcasters licensed under the Wireless Telegraphy Act, a third sector entered the system. They embryonic state of this sector was documented officially in the Green report. That report acknowledged the existence of, and made recommendations on, legislative provisions for 'administration in all three sectors and for licensing of public as well as commercial stations'. Both recommendations have since been adopted by the Government and passed into legislation. Consequently, the term public broadcasting' has now acquired legislative definition in Australia. Section IIIA (1 ) of Part IVa of the Act describes the public broadcasting service and the public television service as applicable to a 'licence granted for a special purpose as specified in the licence'. Section 8 1 (4) also provides that public broadcasting licences may be granted only to non-profit corporations. 
I return to the problem of defining long term strategic objectives for the public sector. The Government has approached this problem by relating the proposed objectives of this sector to those of the system as a whole and hence, logically, to those of the established national and commercial sectors. The overall objectives for the system as a whole are implicit in the philosophy of this Government, as I outlined earlier. We believe that the Australian broadcasting system should aim for diversity and quality as an overall objective and also to cater for and reflect the widest possible spectrum of information, opinions, values and interests in Australian society. These objectives have been rationalised and defined in both the Green and Australian Broadcasting Tribunal Inquiry reports. More specifically, the Government takes the view that the various sectors which comprise the system should aim to develop programming objectives and functions expressly designed to avoid unnecessary and wasteful duplication of broadcasting facilities, resources and content. 
In considering the programming objective, the ultimate raison d'etre of the individual sectors, the starting point must be a general assumption that the total viewing or listening audience is comprised of a series of majority and minority groups. These have been traditionally identified in terms of block mass and minority groupings. However, it must be recognised that what may constitute a minority audience in terms of a percentage of the total listening or viewing population can still constitute a mass audience m numerical terms. It also must be recognised that different audience groupings, whether mass or minority, are both divisible and interchangeable. All people, at some time or another will form part of a mass audience. Of those, most at some time or another will, in following specialised interests, be potential members of minority audiences. 
The nature of the broadcasting system in Australia until quite recently, together with the physical limitations of the availability of broadcasting frequencies, has tended to serve mass audiences well but to overlook those members of the various mass groupings with additional and quite specific interests outside those catered for in mass appeal programming. The commercial sector has been, by virtue of its economic structure and marketing requirements, traditionally oriented to cater for largely undifferentiated audience blocks via mass appeal programming. The national service, by virtue of its Australiawide network structure and public funding origins, has also, though to a lesser extent, tended to program for mass audiences, albeit across a wide geographical service area, while at the same time tending to concentrate on more specialised educational and cultural interests. 
The newer public sector is seen as complementary to both pre-existing sectors. It is likely to program for minority rather than mass audiences in response to special interests and needs. This is not to imply that public broadcasting should be confined to elitist interests. Speciality and elitism are not necessarily synonyms. After all, a special interest may range, for example, from football to Flemish weaving, from film to Florentine art, from hard rock to harpsichord recitals and from Bach cantatas to brass bands. What public broadcasting should aim to do, as a sector, is to develop appeal for all of the people, some of the time. From these premises, the Government proposes that the strategic aim of public broadcasting is to serve specialised audiences or, as the Act puts it, to provide 'special purpose broadcasting'. Action on planning proposals for the public broadcasting sector is now urgently required due to, firstly, the imminent expiry of licences issued under the Wireless Telegraphy Act of 1905, and secondly, the volume of inquiries and follow-up requests received by my Department from potential public broadcasters. In recognition of the urgency of the situation, a series of discussions have been held with the Public Broadcasting Association of Australia to consider draft Guidelines for the Planning of Public Broadcasting in Phase I'. After discussions with the Public Broadcasting Association of Australia, the guidelines have been modified and I have now authorised a final version. 
I seek leave to have terms of the final version incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

GUIDELINES FOR THE PLANNING OF PUBLIC BROADCASTING IN PHASE I (See Note A) 
Public radio station licences will be categorised by the special purpose ' for which they are granted, viz. 
Category E Licences: Will be issued to educational bodies intending to provide programs of continuing and adult education, but including material designed to enrich the cultural life of the audience. 
Category S Licences: Will be issued to groups intending to provide programs serving a particular interest or group of interests e.g. music/sport/religion. 
Category C Licences: Will be issued to community groups intending to provide programs serving a particular community e.g. Bathurst, Manly- Warringah. 
The licensing policy adopted will differentiate between these categories (See Note B). For example- 
Category E Licences (educational bodies): 
in capital cities licences will normally only be issued to consortiums of educational institutions or to a single applicant where that applicant agrees to allow reasonable participation by other educational institutions; 
licences will be medium coverage. They may be issued in either AM or FM (See Note C). 
Category S Licences (special interests): 
consortiums will be permitted, but not mandatory; 
licences will be medium coverage. They may be issued in either AM or FM. (See Note C). 
Category C Licences (community groups): 
consortiums will be permitted but not mandatory and licences may be issued to bodies such as shire councils,  schools,  and non-profit companies in isolated areas; 
Promise of Performance may include educational and access programs; 
licences will be low coverage in capital cities but may be medium coverage elsewhere. They may be m either AM or FM (See Note C). 
In Phase I (See Note A) a maximum of three (3) medium coverage FM Licences will be issued in Categories E and S for each capital city. However, further licences will be issued in Phase II. Licences in Category C will be issued freely wherever frequencies are available. 
The Minister will call for applications for one or more public broadcasting licences for a service area, after which the Austraiian Broadcasting Tribunal will hold a public inquiry and then issue a licence/licences to the successful applicants. Applications for Category E, S and C licences to serve a particular area or part of an area will be invited simultaneously wherever possible. 
Any public broadcasting organisation will be free to apply for a licence and demonstrate to the Tribunal its greater suitability than that of other applicants, according to specifications determined by the Minister and conditions imposed by the Tribunal. 
Applicants will submit a Promise of Performance setting out their programming intentions and other policies related to broadcasting, which will be used in choosing a licensee and in renewal hearings. Significant departures from the Promise of Performance may be subject to investigation by the Tribunal. 
Licensees will be directly responsible under the provisions of the Broadcasting anc; Television Act 1 942, for their station's programs. 
Government financial support will be limited to indirect funding. 
State Governments, statutory bodies other than educational bodies, and political parties will not be issued public broadcasting licences. 
Sponsorship in a form approved by the Minister and administered by the Tribunal will be permitted, but not advertising of the ' spot announcement ' type. 
1. Licensees will not be permitted to own/control more than one public broadcasting licence, but may apply for translator licences. 
Transfers of public broadcasting licences will not be permitted. If an effective transfer is desired, a new Tribunal hearing will be held, with all prospective applicants considered equally. 
The guidelines form the basis for preparation of planning proposals for licence applications in both areas now served by broadcasters licensed under the Wireless Telegraphy Act and those in which potential licensees have expressed an interest in servicing. The Phase I to which they refer may be regarded as an introductory period in the establishment of frequency modulation public broadcasting stations. The Government intends that Phase I should be as short as possible to avoid unnecessary restrictions upon the development of public broadcasting. At the same time, there is a responsibility to control the way in which the enormous potential  of FM broadcasting is to be realised. That involves all sectors of broadcasting and requires proper caution in its exercise. 
At this point, a priority task is to initiate public hearings in those areas served by the broadcasters licensed under the Wireless Telegraphy Act Planning proposals have been prepared and will be circulated by my Department to the appropriate organisations for comment prior to the relevant hearings to be conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. As indicated previously, the planning guidelines propose that public radio stations should be categorised according to the 'special purpose' for which they apply for licensing under the Broadcasting and Television Act. Three licence categories are envisaged to identify what might be described as individual 'station profiles'. The categories are intended to be indicative rather than prescriptive and will be chosen by the applicants themselves. They are not intended for use in the regulatory process and are as follows: 
Category E licences will be issued to educational bodies intending to program for continuing and adult education. Such programming may include material designed to enrich the cultural perspectives of the audiences served. In the capital cities, Category E licences will normally be issued only to consortiums of educational institutions in Phase I. They may also be issued to a single institution with the proviso that other educational institutions be allowed reasonable participation. Most new licences will be issued in FM, since it is mainly in the VHF band that frequencies are available. However, the criterion for the granting of AM or FM licences will be the mode seen to be more technically appropriate for the programming involved. Thus Category E licences, which will provide for medium coverage, might be issued in either mode. 
Category S licences will be issued to groups intending to program for a particular interest, or group of interests. This will be the most flexible category, as it allows potential applicants scope to define in their Promise of Performance whatever interest groupings they wish to serve. These might cover music, sport or religion for which licences will be issued in either AM or FM mode and which will provide for medium coverage. 
Category C licences will be issued to community groups intending to program for the interests of a community, or communities, in a specific geographical location. Potential licensees would be drawn from bodies like shire councils, schools, student organisations and resident groups. The point I made earlier about active involvement by public broadcasters with their communities of license is especially applicable to applications for category C licences. Participation will be the name of the game. As with categories E and S, category C licences will be issued in both modes. However, in capital cities they will extend only to 'low coverage ', that is, coverage over a radius of approximately 1 5 kilometres. 
I stress that these three public broadcasting licence categories are not intended to restrict licensees to immutable programming compartments. Programming from one category to another will have some inevitable similarities. Notwithstanding, in planning development of broadcasting services for each particular geographical area, a prime consideration will be the need to offer listeners the widest possible diversity of programming options. There are lessons to be learned here from the experience of countries like the United States. There, because of a permissive planning policy in the past, the regulatory authority faces enormous difficulties in finding enough frequencies for deserving new applicants. At this stage, it is the Government's intention to moderate demands from bodies like educational institutions, which can be expected to be strong contenders for licences. The rationale for this intention is the need to maintain reserves, both present and future, for other types of public broadcasting. No doubt many licensees will be educational broadcasters, and these will be welcomed as such. But I expect the public broadcasting sector to be developed in a way that will facilitate eventual provision of greater variety and public benefit than educational broadcasting alone could offer. 
An important consideration in planning for the development of public broadcasting, indeed broadcasting as a whole, must be the protection of existing broadcasters against interference from new transmitters and receivers. For this reason, at this stage, I propose to call for a maximum of three medium coverage FM public broadcasting licences for each capital city. There are not such tight limitations upon the issue of category C licences: These will be issued subject to demand and availability of frequencies. At a later stage when more FM frequencies will be available, licensing will continue within the bounds of an orderly, systematic development of the system. The general procedure will be that I will call for applications for one or more public broadcasting licences for specific service areas. 
Public hearings will then be scheduled and conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, on the basis of which a licence or licences will be issued, in accordance with the planning specifications I have determined. Any public broadcasting organisation, or group which forms itself into a non-profit corporation will be free to apply for a licence, with a view to demonstrating that it is the best applicant for the available licence, within the above parameters. As an applicant, it will be required to submit a Promise of Performance setting out its programming intentions and other policies related to broadcasting, which will be used by the Tribunal in choosing a licensee and in subsequent renewal hearings. Significant departures from this Promise of Performance may be subject to investigation by the Tribunal and licensees will be directly responsible for their station 's programs. 
The Government has accepted the Green report attitude that public broadcasting is an activity which should spring from local, community initiatives. Accordingly, it is proposed to specify that State governments, political parties and statutory bodies other than educational ones should not be issued with public broadcasting licences. Again, licensees will not be permitted to own or control more than one public broadcasting licence- although they will be permitted to apply for translator licences- and the effective transfer of public broadcasting licences will necessitate a new Tribunal hearing at which all prospective applicants will be considered. Advertising of the 'spot announcement' type will not be permitted on public broadcasting stations. However, sponsorship in a form approved by the Minister and administered by the Tribunal will be allowed. 
Finally, it should be said that the main reason for setting up new broadcasting stations is to provide better programs. The Government sees public broadcasting as a force for diversity. Its role is to provide Australians with a range of choices which the national and commercial sectors are not able to provide. Public broadcasters will best perform this role not by duplicating the programming of national and commercial stations, but by defining very clearly for themselves, the Tribunal, and above all their audiences, the special purpose' which motivates them. In doing so, they will add to Australian broadcasting an exciting and challenging new element which should make it one of the best systems in the world. I present the following paper 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
2MWMurwillumbah 4KQ Brisbane 4BU Bundaberg 4GG Southport (Gold Coast) 4GR Toowoomba 4AK Toowoomba 4NA Nambour 4AY Townsville 4AM Mareeba 4SB Kingaroy 6 VA Albany 7LA Launceston 8DN Darwin 
The terms of each contract for the sale of news bulletins are, like normal business transactions of this nature, confidential between the parties. The ABC does not consider it can release details of these contracts without the assent of the purchasers. 
No. 
Annually. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) (i) Nil 
Nil 
(i) Nil 
Two 
(i) $13,859 
Nil 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No staff canteens are operated by my Department. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall that the Government amended the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 late last year to provide that broadcasting licences are initially granted for up to five years and are renewed for three-year periods or such lesser period- but not less than 12 months- as the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal believes justifiable. These amendments represented a further stage in the implementation of the revised administrative structure of broadcasting proposed in the 1976 report of the inquiry into the Australian broadcasting system and approved by the Government. However, section 6 of the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Act 1 964 provides for the payment of fees: On the initial grant of the licence; during the currency of the licence, on the anniversary of the date of the commencement of that licence; and  m  the renewal of that licence. 
In view of the new variability of the period for grant and renewal of licences, section 6 of the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Act 1964 requires the payment of fees by licensees more than once in a 12-month period if the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal grants or renews a licence for a period which includes a fraction of a year. This was not intended and this amendment Bill seeks to confirm the principle that broadcasting station licence fees are payable only once each year. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The measures entailed in this amendment Bill are the same as in the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill except that they apply to television stations licence fees rather than fees for broadcasting station licences. Honourable members should take my remarks in respect of that previous Bill to apply to this amendment also. Obviously, this Bill also seeks to confirm the principle that television station licence fees are payable only once each year. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. It has been asked of me by a number of members of the community and by other members of Parliament. I do not think that anyone would disagree that Telecom Australia should advertise its services in an effort to build up the use of those services and therefore to reduce the cost to the consumer. However, I share the concern of the honourable member about the extent of the involvement of Telecom in sponsorship activities in respect of sporting events. I have written formally to the Australian Telecommunications Commission asking it to provide me with the rationale behind this approach to advertising. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Tertiary Education Commission for the 1979-81 triennium, volume I, recommendations and guidelines, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the report 
As has been often said in this House, these matters are matters for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I will indicate to the ABC that the honourable member has asked this question in this place. Indeed, questions on this subject have been asked by a number of people in various places throughout Australia. I have informed the ABC of that. The ABC has informed me that it has considered these questions and decided that the episode should go ahead. 
-If it is a matter of policy I wish someone would tell me because I have not heard about it 
I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall the substantial amendments that were made late last year to the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, including the transfer of the power to license broadcasting and television stations from the Minister to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The amendment represented the principal changes to the administrative structure of broadcasting recommended in the report of the Inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting System, which is known as the Green report, and decided upon by the Government. 
This Bill seeks simply to remedy a minor error in the transitional provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act 1977 and to add a provision to those transitional provisions that should have been included at the time. Specifically, this Bill seeks to amend section 33 (2) of the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act 1977 to allow the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal the choice, under the transitional provisions, of renewing Broadcasting and Television Licences for three years or such lesser period of not less than 12 months as the Tribunal thinks justifiable following a public inquiry, or of renewing broadcasting and television licences in any other case for periods of less than one year. The purpose of this transitional provision is to allow the Tribunal flexibility in renewing licences in the administrative changeover period. 
Under the principal Act, the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, the Tribunal has the power to renew such licences for three years or such lesser period, being not less than 12 months, as the Tribunal thinks justifiable. In addition, this Bill makes allowance for review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal of decisions by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, under the transitional provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act 1977, to renew broadcasting and television licences for less than the full three year-period or to refuse to renew a broadcasting or television licence. There is a similar avenue of appeal against such decisions under the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I would like to express my appreciation to all honourable members on both sides of the House for what has been one of the most constructive and intelligent debates I can remember on a matter of social policy in this House. I will certainly study the comments made by members on both sides and give them the consideration I think they deserve. I do not want to make offthecuff comments about a number of them because I think some of them have far reaching application. A very important part of my approach is to take these comments away and see whether they are worthy of incorporation at some stage into the system as it evolves. 
I say to the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  that to come out with a statement on public broadcasting before one has been able to lay out a statement for the system as a whole is in a sense to put the cart before the horse. This comment was made by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  I understand their concern that we have had to put the cart before the horse. There was one overriding constraint and that was that there were a number of stations licensed under the Wireless Telegraphy Act and they run out of time in August this year. Therefore, it was quite crucial that we should set guidelines in this area of public broadcasting and make a considered statement in time for people to be able to apply because, to take up one of the points made by an honourable member who spoke in this debate yesterday, it is of course expected that those who presently have licences and put a great deal-  (Quorum formed).  Mr Deputy Speaker,  before the quorum was called I was indicating that it was necessary to make an urgent statement on public broadcasting because of the licences issued under the Wireless Telegraphy Act which need to be renewed by August this year. I would only add in this area that in some ways it is a good thing, I think, that I, as the Minister newly responsible, have a somewhat greater opportunity to consider the issues before pretending to lay out the statement for the whole of the system in the sort of detail which will enable it reasonably to stand the test of time. 
I take very seriously the point made by the honourable member for Lalor about the need for these different elements of the system to be truly complementary so that we do not see the situation develop where emphasis on public broadcasting, and some of its virtues, could lead to the waning of quite crucial present aspects of the national sector or the commercial sector. I think that the honourable member understands my own feelings about that and I probably need not harp on the matter. 
Likewise, I understand that concern of the honourable member for Bonython about overlap problems. There are, of course, areas where the systems do over-lap. I also take on board the comment made by the honourable member for Bonython about technical assessments and the need for the government of the day not to be overly conservative about technical matters which of course can strain the system unnecessarily. I think I said in the statement that I saw phase one as being as short as possible and that I hoped we would soon be in the second major phase of the development of public broadcasting. 
I think that Australian broadcasting has been greatly aided by recent developments and the decision towards the end of the days of the last Liberal-Country Party Government prior to 1972 to move to FM broadcasting. There was also the licensing of certain public stations throughout Australia under the previous Labor Government. In particular, I mention the commissioning of the report on public broadcasting by the then Minister for the Media, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  which I thought was a good report and which was of great assistance to me in considering the issues involved. So in short, I think this has been a very useful debate. I thank honourable members for their remarks and I look forward to future such occasions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
In accordance with an undertaking given by the Prime Minister in the Policy Speech, a special non means tested grant of $100 in respect of each child who qualifies for a boarding allowance has been added to the benefits payable under the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme in 1 978 to each beneficiary who resides in Tax Zone A or B. A similar amount is provided, in respect of the first child only, to each beneficiary who resides in Tax Zone A or B and who qualifies for second home assistance. The grant is a special short-term measure for 1 978. 
The Government has also decided that the Income Tax Assessment Act should be amended so that all benefits received under the scheme would not be counted as income when determining the amount of entitlement for Tax Zone A or B allowances. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Payments in 1976-77, as shown in the accounting records of my Departments, for air travel within Australia to airline companies which have been issued airline licences under the Air Navigation Act, are set out below. The amounts do not include payments made to air charter operators or to those charter companies who have been granted exemption from the provisions of Air Navigation Regulation 203 to enable them to operate scheduled air services. 
The figures are provided for my Department, the Tertiary Education Commission, the Schools Commission, the Commonwealth Teaching Service, the Curriculum Development Centre and the ACT Schools Authority. 
TAA, $1,119,148.97; Ansett, $930,071.84; Airlines of NSW, $8,547.00; East-West, $6,736.70; Airlines SA, $739.46; MMA, $99,589.72; Connair, $99,700.00. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I thank the honourable member for his question about the goings-on in beds in the Australian National University. This is a change from the old days when all we heard about was 'Reds' in universities. I will ask the Minister for Education to investigate this matter to see what sort of unnatural advantages there are in beds in universities and what action ought to be taken if indeed there are the unnatural advantages in beds in universities to which the honourable member refers. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to amend the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972, the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1976 and the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1977 to adjust grants to the States for government and nongovernment schools in respect of cost increases. The Bill involves an additional appropriation of $5.6m in respect of 1977 and $15.8m in respect of 1978, increasing the Commonwealth's allocations for the 1977 and 1978 grants programs for schools in the States to $602. 8m and $626.7m respectively. 
The amendments will finalise the adjustment of 1977 grants in respect of cost increases to December 1977. The grants for 1978 will be further adjusted during the Budget sittings in accordance with the Government's announced policy. The number of non-government schools which met the criteria specified in the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1976 for short term emergency assistance grants was insufficient to warrant the full distribution of the 1977 allocation, which has been reduced accordingly. The components of the non-government general recurrent grants program are not increased in this Bill as appropriate adjustments were effected in previous legislation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill adjusts the approved programs of grants to the States for tertiary education for the years 1977 and 1978 by amending the States Grants (Universities Assistance) Act 1976, the States Grants (Advanced Education Assistance) Act 1976, the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Act 1976 and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Act 1977. The additional amounts provided by the Bill maintain the real level of grants approved by the Government in the light of variations in costs since adjustments were made in the Budget sittings of 1977 by providing the necessary supplementation for movements in costs between June 1977 and December 1977. 
Amounts provided by the adjustments to legislation for 1977 for each of the tertiary education sectors are $5m for universities, $4.2m for colleges of advanced education and $0.4m for technical and further education. These adjustments, which represent the final supplementation to the 1977 programs, bring the total amounts provided to the States for tertiary education in respect of 1977 to $56 1.8m for universities, $439.5m for colleges of advanced education and $85. 4m for technical and further education. Additional amounts provided for 1978 by adjustments to the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Act 1977 are $28m for universities, $18m for colleges of advanced education and $3.6m for technical and further education. These amounts bring the total grants for 1978 to $620.2m for universities, $460. 8m for colleges of advanced education and $10 1.2m for technical and further education. The grants for 1978 will be further adjusted during the Budget sittings in accordance with the Government's announced policy. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Schools Commission report for the triennium 1979-81, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  relating to the report. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Education Council Working Party on the Supply and Demand for Teachers in Australian Primary and Secondary Schools 1978-85. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the meeting of the Australian Education Council which was held in Aukland, New Zealand, on 27 January 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) Nil, (b) $3,964.93, (c) $1,961.44, (d) $8, 18 1.68. 
All advertising by my Department is non-campaign advertising. 
480-2-07 and 485-2-06. 
and (5) See above. 
Advertising agencies were selected through the Australian Government Advertising Service. 
$8,500. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amounts expended on fares and travelling allowances in 1976-77 are setout below: 
Overseas travel, $22,7 1 1. 
Domestic travel, $2 1 7,356. 
The percentage of the Department's expenditure on travel and subsistence were: 
Overseas 9.5 percent. 
Domestic 90.5 per cent. 
The question did appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as question No. 1652 but lapsed due to the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. I am not aware of what circumstance  Mr Speaker  was referring to. I shall discuss that matter with the honourable member later. May I simply say that the matter which he raised in this House earlier has been the subject of some discussions between myself and the Commission? There is a difference between myself and the Commission over the nature and extent of the Government's commitment made at the last election where the Commission believed that the promise to extend the free line plant entitlement from 12 kilometres to 16 kilometres should be with respect only to those areas which are programmed for conversion to automatic within two years or where there is already an automatic exchange. The Government's view is that the commitment should be fulfilled without qualification. I have put that view in writing to the  Chairman  of the Commission, and I await a reply. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, I present the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal for the period 1 January to 30 June 1977, which incorporates the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the period 1 July to 31 December 1976. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (6) Under the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Act 1977, the Tertiary Education Commission has the statutory responsibility for approving advanced education courses for funding purposes. Towards the end of last year the Commission considered several courses in nurse education which had been proposed for approval for funding purposes, including post-basic degree courses in nursing at the Western Australian Institute of Technology, and in nursing education and nursing administration at the Lincoln Institute. The Commission decided not to approve these courses for funding purposes in 1 978 as it considered that approval of these proposals would pre-empt the deliberations of the Committee on Nurse Education and Training, which the Government has established to provide objective advice on the whole range of questions relating to the education and training of nurses at both the basic and post-basic level. In particular, the Commission was aware that the proposed course at the Western Australian Institute of Technology, which the Advanced Education Council had recommended for approval prior to the establishment of the Committee on Nurse Education and Training, would be the first degree course in nursing to be introduced at a tertiary institution in Australia and the Commission was concerned at the possible implications of such a move when the whole question of nurse education was under review. 
I understand that the Committee on Nurse Education and Training will be reporting to the Tertiary Education Commission later this year. If proposals are re-submitted to the Advanced Education Council the question of approval of degree courses in nursing at the Western Australian Institute of Technology and the Lincoln Institute can then be reexamined, in the light of a co-ordinated, national plan for the development of nurse education and training. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Payments to non-government schools in the Electoral Division of Werriwa in 1977 under each program administered by the Schools Commission were as follows: 
I will look at the matter raised by the honourable member and consult my colleague and the record. I will make the information about the proposals available to the honourable member as soon as possible. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2 ), and (3) Details of the total projects for Eyre Peninsula cannot be given in precise terms as these have still to be determined and Government endorsement of the project given. Broadly speaking, however, it is envisaged that the project will include a high-power national station on Mount Cooper to provide a wide coverage service to the rural population in the western section of the Peninsula, subsidiary lowpower national translators to serve Streaky Bay, Smoky BayHaslam, Wudinna and Kimba, a medium-power translator to serve the farming area in the central Eyre Peninsula, including the towns of Cleve and Lock, a translator at Port Augusta and an additional translator at Port Lincoln. In addition, upgrading of the existing national translators at Mount Olinthus and Brothwicks Hill is envisaged to provide improved coverage along the west coast of Spencer Gulf. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 1 draw the honourable member's attention to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 468  (Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to House of Representatives Question on Notice No. 468 (See  Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information as requested is not readily available on a financial year basis but is available and therefore provided on a calendar year basis. Grants for expenditure on government schools are paid direct to the States who determine priorities for their distribution, except in the case of grants under the Special Projects (Innovations) Program (see (ii)). Payments made to non-government schools in the Electoral Division of Hughes in each of the calendar years 1975, 1976 and 1977 under the programs administered by the Schools Commission are as follows: 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
to (7) Advertising by the Department of Education and Statutory Authorities is undertaken for the most part to draw the attention of interested institutions and persons to grants, benefits, scholarships and other forms of assistance under the programs for which it is responsible. Some advertising is also used for employment vacancies. In the ACT and Northern Territory advertising is also used to inform prospective students of courses at Technical and Further Education Institutions and to indicate the availability of courses to migrants. The use of advertising in the case of grants and similar programs is closely related to an annual timetable of processing of applications related to the academic or school year. These processes are an integral part of program administration and cannot properly be described as campaigns. 
Advertising by the Department is placed through the Australian Government Advertising Service. 
Information on expenditure for some of the specific periods listed is not readily available. Expenditure on advertising by the Department for the financial years 1975-76, 1976-77 and the estimate for the year 1977-78 is shown below: 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Six full-time staff are employed on tea-making and distribution in the Department of Education head office. Three full-time and 7 part-time staff are employed in other offices of the Department. 
(i) $89,696; (ii) $1,617. 
I will make inquiries about the matter raised by the honourable member and give him an answer as soon as possible. 
As I said in response to an earlier question on the same matter, I shall make inquiries and let the honourable member know the answer as soon as possible. 
-The question asked by the honourable gentleman obviously relates to earlier questions which have been asked of me and, as I have already said, I shall make inquiries and let the honourable member know the answers to those questions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1973, nine requests have been received by Australia Post and the former Postmaster-General's Department. 
The existing postal facilities in the area were considered adequate. 
Following a further review and taking into account the development in, and particular location of Blackburne Square, action is proceeding to provide a posting box in the Square as soon as practicable. 
Teachers: Candidature for the Parliament  (Question No. 779) 
I have seen some reports in the Press this morning about the matters which were raised with me in this House yesterday and, as I have already said, I will provide answers to honourable members on this matter as soon as possible. The allegations implied in the honourable member's questions and subsequently in some of the Press reports are serious allegations and therefore they must be examined very carefully. One of the files on the matter arrived from Queensland only last night. My Department is preparing a report for me on the files which are being made available from various parts of the Department and the Australian Postal Commission. I will consider that report as soon as it is made available to me by my officers and I will discuss with my colleagues what action should be taken as a result of the report. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. It was a good question. I also thank him and a number of other members of the House who have assisted me in attempting to resolve the problems of interference created by a minority of citizen band radio users. A number of things can help with these problems. At the moment we are in the middle of recruiting a considerable number of new radio inspectors. Perhaps that is the first things to say. The Department- I am personally heavily involved in this- is involved in discussions with the National Citizens Radio Association about a major revamping of the regulations governing the usage of CB in Australia. I hope that we shall make real progress in this matter in the weeks ahead. I believe that with revamping of the regulations we will take another long step towards reducing the problems of interference, particularly to television, posed by a minority of CB users. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The operating costs of courses conducted under EPUY are a charge to the Department of Education. These costs do not include payments to individuals. Young people attending EPUY courses are paid a living allowance which is a charge to the NEAT appropriation under the responsibility of my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The allowance is equivalent to the unemployment benefit together with an amount of $6 per week for each student to cover expenditure on fares and incidentals. 
No EPUY courses were conducted in South Australia during the financial year 1 976-77. In the first half of the financial year 1977-78, only one course was conducted in South Australia, at Port Adelaide. In the current six months, five courses, each of 20 weeks duration, are being conducted- at Port Adelaide, Adelaide, Salisbury, Whyalla and Morphett Vale. 
The Morphett Vale course (in the Electoral Division of Kingston) commenced on 24 April and is being conducted at 24 Lyndhurst Road, Seaford. Thirty students have been enrolled and they will be paid living allowances at the rate of S42 per week if under 18 years, and at $57.45 per week for those over 18. The operating cost of the course has been estimated at $37,400. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. I have made extensive inquiries about this matter after questions were raised on it last week and I have almost finished a written answer to those questions. I will take on notice what the honourable member said and will provide him with an answer before the week is out. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A closed circuit television conference facility known as 'Confravision' is provided by Telecom Australia between Melbourne and Sydney. This facility was introduced by the former Australian Post Office some years ago. It caters for full audio/visual participation by up to six participants at each terminal and provides an economical means of conducting conferences/discussions/meetings between groups of persons located in these two cities. 
Telecom Australia has not taken any steps to clarify the position as to the legality of a board meeting conducted via the confravision facility and considers that it is not in a position to do so. In the view of the Commission's legal advisers, the legality of such a meeting would be determined on the provision of the Act, regulations, constitution or other rules under which the organisation concerned is established and which deal with the holding of meetings. As such, it is therefore a matter which individual companies or organisations wishing to use Confravision must necessarily establish themselves. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The level of postal business transacted at Coober Pedy is greater than that which would normally result in the establishment of an official post office. The existing non-official post office, which is located in a self-contained area of the local general store, does however provide the full range of postal services. Before an official post office could be established it would be necessary for a new post office building and a postmaster's residence to be constructed and this would be extremely costly. In these circumstances, and in view of the fact that the level of postal business transacted at Coober Pedy has declined in recent years, the provision of an official post office has not been considered warranted. The development of the north-south standard gauge railway line is being studied, however, to determine whether or not this would make it a viable long term proposition for Australia 
Post to construct a new official post office building and postmaster's residence. 
The following are the criteria for deciding whether an official or non-official post office should be established. 
Official conditions 
A post office would normally operate under official conditions where the postal workload is expected to remain at or above the level which would justify the employment of two or more full time staff, including a Postmaster, provided that: suitable existing or alternative post office accommodation is available and staff amenities are adequate, and suitable residential accommodation is available and social amenities in the area are acceptable. 
Non-official conditions 
Where the criteria for the establishment of an official post office cannot be fulfilled, but where a need has been established for the provision of post office counter services, a post office would operate, generally, under non-official conditions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission plans to convert its television studio in Rockhampton to colour operations in 1 979. This is dependent on the availability of funds allocated for capital expenditure in 1 978-79 and the capacity of other ABC resources required for the work. 
Conversion to colour operations of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's Darwin television studio will be completed first- during the present calendar year. 
I have made it clear that I will make a full written answer available. I will do so in the normal way and I will do so very soon. I want to make it absolutely clear that a very careful examination of all the circumstances proved that the former Minister for Post and Telecommunications did not interfere in the negotiation process for the purchase of land for a mail centre on the Gold Coast. Any insinuations of this nature are entirely without foundation. To emphasise my point I say that the Managing Director of the Australian Postal Commission has told me that there was no suggestion by the Minister, either direct or implied, that the Commission should re-open negotiations, nor was there any indication that the Minister had any involvement or wish to intervene other than to respond helpfully to  Mr McMaster  's inquiry to him. 
I thank the honourable member for anti-Chrysler for his question. I simply say that the answer to the first part of the question is no. I found it difficult to follow some of the other parts of the question. I have already said that full written answers will be made available. They will answer the matters that are implicit in the honourable member's question. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate on this Bill resumes I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Television Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill and the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill, as they are associated measures. Of course, questions will be put separately on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matters of the three Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I will take a brief moment to reply to what the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said and also to the other comments that were made during the debate. I certainly believe that tests are very useful. I acknowledge that tests were closed last year. However, I have under consideration a proposal to reopen testing in respect of people such as those referred to by the honourable member. I cannot say when a final decision will be made but I am sympathetic to the general proposition in terms of the specific case. I will have a look at the matter and let the honourable member know. I would like to thank honourable members who have made a contribution to this debate. Some very interesting points have been raised and I will certainly consider them very closely. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate on this Bill is resumed, I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill 1978 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-It is interesting to reflect upon the powers of the Minister under the Telecommunications Act, and the honourable member has caused me to do that. The Minister has power to give directions to the Australian Telecommunications Commission with respect to the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers as appears necessary to the Minister in the public interest. Ministers, of course, always fancy that they are very good defenders of the public interest. One would expect, therefore, that if the matter came to the crunch a court might find it rather difficult to question the judgment of a government or a Minister as to what the Minister believes is necessary in the public interest. Nevertheless, I would have to say that if it came to a question of taking action under the Act along the lines hinted at by the honourable member, I would need to seek advice from the Government's legal advisers as to the proposed course of action. But putting that to one side for the moment, let me say to the honourable member that it is the view of the Government that there must be a continuing improvement in services available for country people in Australia. 
The present plans of Telecom Australia provide that virtually all manual services will become automatic within 10 years. In recent years, the position has been that in 1970 there were 260,000 manual services in Australia, there are about 110,000 now, and by 1979 it is expected that there will be about 85,000 manual services. I should point out also that the Government at the last election made a commitment that the cost of off-peak calls would be reduced substantially. Telecom has been working on this and I expect the Government to be able shortly to look at the plans that have been drawn up by Telecom for the reduction in the price of subscriber trunk dialling and long distance calls. But I think it has to be said that it takes a good many months actually to effect any changes which are decided upon. The Government also attaches importance to its request to Telecom to study the local call zoning policy. I would hope that any policy change would ensure that, so far as possible, local call access to the nearest local service centre is provided for the great majority of rural subscribers. 
-On 4 May 1978,  Mr Les  McMahon asked me the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: What is the purpose for which land bought at Bundall, Queensland on 4 February 1977 by the Australian Postal Commission is to be used? For how long prior to the purchase had the Commission been seeking land in the Bundall area? What departmental officers or Government members were aware of the Commission's interest in acquiring land at Bundall? 
The results of my inquiries are set out below. 
The  former  Postmaster-General's Department and Australia Post had been continuously seeking land in the Gold Coast area since 1974 to be used as the site for a mail centre. After much searching Australia Post indicated to the Department of Administrative Services in March 1976 that the Bundall area was one of its preferences. 
Over this period there would have been many officials in Australia Post and the Department of Administrative Services aware of Australia Post's interest. 
On 23 August 1976, Australia Post was informed by Watkins Limited that they had for sale at $240,000, a piece of land on the corner of Crombie Avenue and Upton Street, Bundall. On 25 August 1976, Australia Post advised the Chief Property Officer, Department of Administrative Services, Queensland, that this land met all of its requirements and to concentrate on an early acquisition. 
On 1 5 October 1 976, Australia Post learnt that the Bundall land had been sold to Ron McMaster Pty Ltd for $240,000 or $248,000. Australia Post expressed concern to the Department of Administrative Services that what had appeared to be a straightforward acquisition, and most attractive to Australia Post, failed at the last moment due to the initiative of another purchaser and delays in the purchasing process. 
Because the land was so ideally suited for postal purposes, Australia Post asked the Department of Administrative Services to pursue negotiations with the new owner. 
Initial negotiations were carried on with Ron McMaster Pty Ltd from October to December 1976. During this period the vendor moved his asking price down from $350,000 to $3 10,000. On 9 December 1976, the Australian Postal Commission decided to defer the matter pending careful examination of the facts surrounding the sale to Ron McMaster Pty Ltd and on 17 December 1976, the Commission decided not to proceed with the acquisition and to release Ron McMaster Pty Ltd from the offer of $3 10,000. This decision was taken because the Australian Postal Commission was concerned that the vendor was in a position to make a considerable capital profit. 
The Department of Administrative Services, Queensland, advised Ron McMaster Pty Ltd on 20 December 1976 that the Commission did not wish to proceed with the purchase. 
In making this decision, the Commission had before it a final valuation on the land by the Australian Taxation Office of$360,000. 
During the period of these negotiations the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications was asked, entirely at the initiative of the Commission, whether the proposed purchase, which would take place in his electorate, would be an embarrassment to him. The then Minister indicated that he would have no difficulties if the Commission were to purchase property in his electorate even if the Commission's ultimate decision was to purchase at a profit to the present owner. 
After receipt of the letter of 20 December 1976,  Mr McMaster  made immediate representations to his local Member, the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications, questioning the decision notified by the Department of Administrative Services, and indicating that he believed that the Australian Postal Commission was still keen to buy the property. 
The Minister rang the Acting Chief General Manager of the Australian Postal Commission on 30 December 1976, and made it clear that he did not want to be associated with any negotiations but that for the purpose of dealing with the representations from  Mr McMaster  it would be helpful if the Minister knew the Commission's attitude so he could tell  Mr McMaster  where he stood in the matter. 
The Minister asked that the Managing Director contact him on 4 January 1977 and indicated that he would delay answering  Mr McMaster's  representations until after he had spoken with the Managing Director. 
When the Managing Director contacted the Minister on 4 January 1977, the Minister confirmed the substance of his conversation with the Acting Chief General Manager. The Managing Director informed the Minister that the Australian Postal Commission would very much like to acquire the site but felt strongly its public responsibilities and would not contemplate a substantial profit being made by the vendor. 
The Managing Director also indicated to the Minister that if  Mr McMaster  were prepared to consider a lower figure than $3 10,000, he should contact the Chief Property Officer, Department of Administrative Services, Queensland, and the Manager, Planning and Technical Services, Australia Post, Queensland. 
The Minister indicated that he would pass on to  Mr McMaster  the Managing Director's advice. 

 Mr McMaster subsequently entered into negotiations with the Department of Administrative Services on 7 January, 1 977. The property was purchased from Ron McMaster Pty Ltd on 8 February, 1977 at a cost of $280,000, which was $80,000 below the Taxation Valuation. 
On 8 May, 1978,I contacted the former  Chairman  of the Australian Postal Commission,  Mr J.  J. Kennedy and the Managing Director,  Mr A.  F. Spratt, to seek their recollections of the matter. 

 Mr Kennedy has written to me as follows: 8th May, 1978. 
The Honourable A. Staley, M.P., 
Minister for Post and Telecommunications, 
Parliament House, 
Canberra, A.C.T 2600 
My dear Minister, 
In response to your telephone call, I confirm that I have a very clear recollection of the events surrounding the purchase of land at the Gold Coast by the Australian Postal Commission, which I understand is now the subject of an investigation by your good self. 
The Commission negotiated strenuously for this most suitable site for a mail sorting centre, and although it was valued at about $350,000.00, in the event was able to purchase it for $280,000.00, after prolonged negotiations. 
I understand there has been a suggestion that the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the  Hon.  Eric Robinson, was in some way involved in influencing the Commission to purchase the property, so that the vendor would make a profit of some $40,000.00. 
I do not wish to get involved in any political controversy, but I must state that, to my knowledge, no pressure or influence, implied, implicit, direct or indirect, was brought to bear by the then Minister, The  Hon.  Eric Robinson, in the Commission's deliberations on the matter. The Minister made it quite clear to me that any decision on the purchase of the property at the Gold Coast was a decision that was entirely up to the Postal Commission, and he was particularly concerned, following a breakdown in the negotiations, that any re-opening of negotiations was entirely up to the Postal Commission. 
The Minister made no attempt to influence the Commission 's decision to purchase the Gold Coast land. The land was purchased at a fair price below valuation, and was the most suitable land for the purpose. Less suitable land was available at a higher price, and this was taken into account in the Commission's decision. 
Yours sincerely, 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the basis of information provided to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal by licensees of commercial broadcasting and television stations, and by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the following tables have been prepared to show the details requested under parts ( 1 ), (2 ) and (3) of the question. These tables show details of radio and television broadcasts of election speeches and political advertisements for the period 14 July 1977 (date of issue of writs) to 13 August 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the basis of information provided to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal by licensees of commercial broadcasting and television stations, and by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the following tables have been prepared to show the details requested under parts ( 1 ), (2) and 
of the question. These tables show details of radio and television broadcasts of election speeches and political advertisements for the period 25 August 1977 (date of issue of writs) to 14 September 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The ABC regularly employs on contract or other formal short-term engagement, a wide range of talent including actors, actresses, musicians, writers, production staff, news and public affairs correspondents and cinecameramen. 
1975-76-$6, 124,000; 1976-77-$5,5 17,000. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Education has six positions of Assistant Grade 1 located in Darwin locally designated Home Liaison Officer. The work of these officers involves considerable contact with non-English speaking parents of students attending schools. These parents are mainly of Greek, Italian and Timorese origin and competence in any of their languages is stressed as a desirable qualification for recruitment purposes. Preference is given to applicants with the appropriate language skills. Where it is not possible to recruit persons with the appropriate language skills then every effort is made to appoint persons who can effectively communicate with non-English speaking parents despite the lack of competence in the parents ' native language. 
In addition, there are just over 300 Aboriginals employed in the delivery of educational services who use their own vernacular as well as English in their normal duties. 
Employment of Public Servants after Retirement (Question No. 797) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the Australian Telecommunications Commission does not disclose details of telephone accounts and their payment on the basis that these should be treated as being in commercial confidence. This is of course except for those disclosures which are necessary for legal action to recover unpaid accounts. I understand that this was the position also taken by preceding Ministers responsible for these matters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Election speeches and political advertisements. 
On the basis of information provided to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal by licensees of commercial broadcasting and television stations, and by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the following tables have been prepared to show the details requested under parts ( 1 ), (2) and (3) of the question. These tables show details of radio and television broadcasts of election speeches and political advertisements for the period 10 October 1977 (date of issue of writs) to 9 November 1977. 
I can only reiterate what has been said on previous occasions- indeed every few weeks- when I have been asked about this matter by the press or by members of parliament. I know of no proposal for the introduction of television viewers' licences. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974 I present a statement of payments to the States authorised under that Act for the financial year 1 976-77. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Tertiary Education Commission draft report on study leave together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the report. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Supply Bill (No. 2) as they are associated measures. Of course, separate questions will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? 
I require the debate to be extended,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I did not hear some of the comments made earlier tonight in the adjournment debate about matters relating to a land purchase on the Gold Coast and the former Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I did hear some remarks on the loudspeaker in my room and it seemed to me that there was some suggestion, some insinuation, some implication that the former Minister had somehow attempted to influence decisions of the Commission to the advantage of a constituent in relation to the land purchase in question. I want to make it quite clear, as I have already made it clear in this House during Question Time and in a written reply to questions asked of me recently, that there is no foundation whatsoever for any such insinuations, implications or allegations. To suggest that such is the case is to indulge in a cheap smear. In view of the potential importance of the allegations made some few days ago, a most careful examination of the facts was made. That careful examination made it quite clear, and it is beyond doubt on the words of the  Chairman  of the Austraiian Postal Commission and the Managing Director of the Australian Postal Commission, that there was no impropriety of any sort in the actions of the former Minister for Post and Telecommunications. If anyone is attempting to draw a long bow and to insinuate any impropriety, then he is challenging the integrity of the Managing Director of the Australian Postal Commission, who is one of Australia's most senior and respected public servants. What is more, there is at the same time a challenge to the veracity, the basic honesty, of the Labor-appointed  Chairman  of the Australian Postal Commission. 
McMaster was prepared to consider a lower figure - 
If the honourable member is asking that my previous answer on this matter be incorporated in  Hansard,  I am delighted to seek leave of the House to have it incorporated. Is it the same document? 
Yes, that is the one. 

 The document read as follows- 

The results of my enquiries are set out below. 
The former Postmaster-General's Department and Australia Post had been continuously seeking land in the Gold Coast area since 1974 to be used as the site for a mail centre. After much searching Australia Post indicated to the Department of Administrative Services in March 1976 that the Bundall area was one of its preferences. 
Over this period there would have been many officials in Australia Post and the Depanment of Administrative Services aware of Australia Post 's interest. 
On 23 August 1976, Australia Post was informed by Watkins Limited that they had for sale at $240,000, a piece of land on the corner of Crombie Avenue and Upton Street, Bundall. On 25 August 1976, Australia Post advised the Chief Property Officer, Department of Administrative Services, Queensland, that this land met all of its requirements and to concentrate on an early acquisition. 
On IS October, 1976, Australia Post learnt that the Bundall land had been sold to Ron McMaster Pty Ltd for $240,000 or $248,000. Australia Post expressed concern to the Department of Administrative Services that what had appeared to be a straightforward acquisition, and most attractive to Australia Post, failed at the last moment due to the initiative of another purchaser and delays in the purchasing process. 
Because the land was so ideally suited for postal purposes, Australia Post asked the Department of Administrative Services to pursue negotiations with the new owner. 
Initial negotiations were carried on with Ron McMaster Pty Ltd from October to December 1976. During this period the vendor moved his asking price down from $350,000 to $3 10,000. On 9 December 1976, the Australian Postal Commission decided to defer the matter pending careful examination of the facts surrounding the sale to Ron McMaster Pty Ltd and on 17 December 1976, the Commission decided not to proceed with the acquisition and to release Ron McMaster Pty Ltd from the offer of $3 10,000. This decision was taken because the Australian Postal Commission was concerned that the vendor was in a position to make a considerable capital profit. 
The Department of Administrative Services, Queensland, advised Ron McMaster Pty Ltd on 20 December 1976 that the Commission did not wish to proceed with the purchase. 
In making this decision, the Commission had before it a final valuation on the land by the Australian Taxation Office of$360,000. 
During the period of these negotiations the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications was asked , entirely at the initiative of the Commission, whether the proposed purchase, which would take place in his electorate, would be an embarrassment to him. The then Minister indicated that he would have no difficulties if the Commission were to purchase property in his electorate even if the Commission's ultimate decision was to purchase at a profit to the present owner. 
After receipt of the letter of 20 December 1976,  Mr McMaster  made immediate representations to his local Member, the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications, questioning the decision notified by the Department of Administrative Services, and indicating that he believed that the Australian Postal Commission was still keen to buy the property. 
The Minister rang the Acting Chief General Manager of the Australian Postal Commission on 30 December 1976, and made it clear that he did not want to be associated with any negotiations but that for the purpose of dealing with the representations from  Mr McMaster  it would be helpful if the Minister knew the Commission 's attitude so he could tell  Mr McMaster  where he stood in the matter. 
The Minister asked that the Managing Director contact him on 4 January 1977 and indicated that he would delay answering  Mr McMaster  's representations until after he had spoken with the Managing Director. 
When the Managing Director contacted the Minister on 4 January 1977, the Minister confirmed the substance of his conversation with the Acting Chief General Manager. The Managing Director informed the Minister that the Australian Postal Commission would very much like to acquire the site but felt strongly its public responsibilities and would not contemplate a substantial profit being made by the vendor. 
The Managing Director also indicated to the Minister that if  Mr McMaster  were prepared to consider a lower figure than $310,000, he should contact the Chief Property Officer, Department of Administrative Services, Queensland, and the Manager, Planning and Technical Services, Australia Post, Queensland. 
The Minister indicated that he would pass on to  Mr McMaster  the Managing Director's advice. 

 Mr McMaster subsequently entered into negotiations with the Department of Administrative Services on 7 January 1977. The property was purchased from Ron McMaster Pty Ltd on 8 February 1977 at a cost of $280,000, which was $80,000 below the Taxation Valuation. 
On 8 May 1978, 1 contacted the former  Chairman  of the Australian Postal Commission,  Mr J.  J. Kennedy and the Managing Director,  Mr A.  F. Spratt, to seek their recollections of the matter. 

 Mr Kennedy has written to me as follows: 8th May, 1978. 
-As I have pointed out, the Labor-appointed  Chairman  of the Australian Postal Commission- appointed by the Whitlam Government- has answered any allegation in relation to impropriety by the former Minister.  Mr Kennedy,  who has now resigned as  Chairman  of the Australian Postal Commission, said in response to my request for information about this very serious allegation: 
I do not wish to get involved in any political controversy, but I must state that, to my knowledge, no pressure or influence, implied, implicit, direct or indirect, was brought to bear by the then Minister, the  Hon.  Eric Robinson, in the Commission 's deliberations on the matter. 
I will continue to deal with this trumped up charge. The reply from the then  Chairman  of the Australian Postal Commission,  Mr J.  J. Kennedy, proceeds as follows: 
The Minister made it quite clear to me that any decision on the purchase of the property at the Gold Coast was a decision that was entirely up to the Postal Commission, and he was particularly concerned, following a breakdown in the negotiations, that any re-opening of negotiations was entirely up to the Postal Commission. 
The Minister made no attempt to influence the Commission 's decision to purchase the Gold Coast land. The land was purchased at a fair price below valuation, and was the most suitable land for the purpose. Less suitable land was available at a higher price, and this was taken into account in the Commission 's decision. 
They were the words of the Labor appointed  Chairman  of the Postal Commission, a person who is not even in the position today and who therefore would have no motive whatsoever to support a Minister over whom any cloud hung in this matter. Further, the Managing Director of the Australian Postal Commission, one of Australia's most senior and respected public servants, on the same issue said that there was no suggestion by the Minister either direct or implied that we should re-open negotiations, nor was there any indication that the Minister had any involvement or wish to intervene other than to respond helpfully to  Mr McMaster  's inquiry to him. Those responses from those people settled this issue once and for all. 
House adjourned at 11.7 p.m. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Sydney telephone charging zone (inner metropolitan zone) is the area embracing all telephone exchanges located within a radial distance of 24 km of the Sydney GPO. The outer Sydney telephone zones cover the area embracing exchanges within a radial distance of between 24 km and about 40 km of the GPO. 
If the zones were taken to be based on circles centred on the Sydney GPO with radii of 24 and 40 km, the percentages would be approximately: 
(i) 63.5; (ii) 36.5 
(i) 50.0; (ti) 50.0. 
and (4) The answers to these parts of the honourable member's question will vary according to what definition of a metropolitan area is used. Telecom defines the metropolitan area in respect of each State capital city as the area covered by the capital city zone and all zones which adjoin it. By this definition all subscribers within the metropolitan areas of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Penh have local call access to the inner metropolitan zone. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Employees of the Australian Postal Commission belong to the following staff organisations: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Employees of the Australian Telecommunications Commission belong to the following staff organisations: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Telecom Australia does not record separately the cost of vandalism to public telephones. However for the year 1976-77 the estimated costs were: (a) $3,820,000, (b) $243,000. 
(a) 382, (b) 74. 
In all cases the Commission seeks full restitution of costs. 
Non-official Postmasters  (Question No. 350) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The service provided by non-official postmasters is important in the provision of telephone service in remote areas. 
Payment to non-official postmasters includes allowances in addition to payment for traffic handled. The awake' component of the allowances is subject to National Wage indexation and was increased from the beginning of March 1978. The 'sleeping' component of the allowance is the subject of an offer by Telecom on 10 February 1978. 
Telecom's profits are progressively invested in the Commission 's Capital Program and thus are being applied to finance necessary extensions of the telecommunications network to give improved and increased services to all sections of the Australian community including remote areas. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$56.00 on 17 June 1977. 
) Air fare from Darwin to Gove. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (4) In February 1977 the Australian Education Council, which is the body composed of Federal and State Ministers for Education, approved a co-operative study to be undertaken into the building costs of both government and non-government schools in Australia. The study had the objectives of achieving accurate comparisons of building costs, identifying reasons for divergences in costs and bringing forward recommendations on building costs based upon realistic and economic norms and guidelines. 
Officers from the State Departments of Education and Public Works, the Schools Commission, the Commonwealth Departments of Education and Construction and experts from the private sector have been involved in the study. 
A report has been completed and sent to the members of the Australian Education Council and will be listed for discussion at its next meeting. 
As I have indicated previously to the House on this matter, Telecom Australia had interpreted the Government's undertaking to apply only to cases where automatic telephone exchanges were involved and not to the manual exchange areas. I am having discussions with Telecom about its interpretation because the Government believes that a clear commitment was made. As soon as I can, I will give the House information on this matter. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Aboriginal Land Fund Act 1974 1 present the annual report of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission for the year ended June 1 977. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for mining companies in the Alligator Rivers region to retain their current rights as far as ownership of and access to existing improvements constructed by them when the land on which the facilities have been erected becomes Aboriginal land. I would stress that the Bill merely confirms the present position of the companies but settles any doubts about their legal rights. 
It was the intention of the original Act to protect the existing rights of people who had a prior interest in Aboriginal land, as recommended by  Mr Justice  Woodward in his Royal Commission report on Aboriginal Land Rights. Following legal advice it is not certain that the Act does this in respect of mining companies in the Alligator Rivers region because of uncertainty as to the nature of their interests in that area. In accordance with the recommendations of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, the Government had delayed issue of any formal authorities to mine until other recommendations concerning the grant of Aboriginal land and environmental protection mechanisms have been implemented. 
The Government accepts the need to avoid any argument over this issue, and is particularly mindful of the commitment of the then Labor Government, to guarantee ownership rights of Ranger. This commitment was set out in the Memorandum of Understanding between the Commonwealth and the companies which was signed in October 1 975. It is therefore proposed that the Aboriginal Land Rights Act should be amended to ensure that the companies are given rights of access to and ownership of facilities erected to date by them. The Bill also contains a provision to the effect that these amendments shall not be taken to authorise the carrying out of mining operations or exploration for minerals. I stress that these provisions will not authorise the companies to proceed with further work without specific Government approval. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Research in institutions is funded by a number of private and public sources including Commonwealth agencies. Funds for research in universities are provided within the grants of the Tertiary Education Commission. Information is not available to me concerning what research involved the use of animals. 
and (3) The National Health and Medical Research Council has a standard code of ethics for the use of animals in research. Responsibility for the Council is vested in my colleague the Minister for Health. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information as requested in relation to the members of the Schools Commission is as follows: 
I would be delighted to visit some of the more remote parts of Australia; indeed, I think a lot of honourable members would like to make visits to some of the more remote parts of Australia- and some would like to stay there. In the course of those visits I would like to see for myself the kinds of facilities that are available to country people in the directions mentioned by the honourable member. I have no doubt that in very many ways people in the outback and in the more remote parts of Australia suffer grave disadvantages when it comes to the provision of such services. The Government has, in a number of programs, committed itself to the development of these services for such people. I think particularly of the remote area television program, of the extension of radio services, of the studies that are being undertaken by Telecom on the reduction of long-distance calling rates, of the question of local call access, and other studies being undertaken by the commissions responsible, all of which, I believe, will lead to a substantial improvement in the position of people in remote parts of Australia. 
I have noted the coverage given to comments concerning a possible inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I want to make it quite clear that no decision has been made to hold an inquiry into the ABC. I made that clear a couple of nights ago. The Green report which was tabled in the House on 9 November 1976 recommended that the policies and performance of the ABC be subject to review by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal every seven years and that the first of these reviews should take place in 1980. 1 certainly believe there is a good case for regular and independent inquiry into the ABC, and that is a principle which the ABC itself adopts. As I said on Wednesday, in due course I would consider asking the Government whether an inquiry should be undertaken earlier than that recommended in the Green report but, I stress, there has been no decision. 
For the information of honourable members I present a copy of a statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  concerning compulsory membership of student associations at the Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education. 
I have really nothing to add to what I said in this House last week; namely that the Green report recommends that there should be an inquiry into the ABC on a regular basis and that the first inquiry should be in 1980. As I said last week, I believe that in principle there is a good case for regular and independent inquiry into the ABC and that I would in due course consider asking the Government whether the sort of inquiry envisaged by the Green report ought to be brought on earlier than 1980. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve Amendment Bill and the Acts Interpretation Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of the three Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I will make inquiries into the matter raised by the honourable member. I am not familiar with decisions made at that stage, and it is a matter of detail. But I think it is wrong that CB radio sets can be imported into Australia when they are not able to be licensed here. I have had some discussions with my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, about this matter and we are looking at what action can be taken in order to prevent what is in general an undesirable practice. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question. 
The Department of Education does not operate any staff canteens. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question. 
79. 
$8,870. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question. 
1 ) and (2) There are no members of parliament on any advisory or consultative committees responsible to me as Minister for Education. 
-Let me say that the Government regards its commitment to introduce an ethnic television service as a very important commitment. It has asked a group of officials to advise Ministers and the Government parties on the ways in which an ethnic television service could be introduced in this country. I remind honourable members that there are not a lot of precedents from around the world because this is a trail-blazing venture. What has happened so far is that the officials have been drawing up a list of options for the consideration of the Government and the Government will soon be invited to look at those options. I would make it quite clear also that we will ensure that full consultation is undertaken with ethnic communities. This does not mean just a few selected representatives. It means that we will be interested in the views of ethnic communities throughout this country. 
I will check the precise cut-off time for the registration of complaints with the Tribunal which might come via the Department and let the honourable member know. I would point out that the process of public inquiry, which is a new feature of the grant of licences, is a very important part of the Government's approach to the grant of licences by the independent body so authorised, the Broadcasting Tribunal. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, Learning Difficulties iti Children and Adults, has been closely examined by my Department and in other agencies in my portfolio. There is now a number of projects addressed at the national level to problems in the areas the Select Committee studied. 
An important recommendation of the Select Committee was that the incidence of learning difficulties should be determined at regular intervals by a nationwide survey similar to the study of 'Literacy and Numeracy in Australian Schools' conducted by the Australian Council for Educational Research. The Education Research and Development Committee (ERDC) now has a study group reporting on the feasibility of instituting a regular program of national assessment of educational standards and progress. ERDC has also supported several research projects in the area of specific learning difficulties including aspects of screening, diagnosis and remediation. 
The Schools Commission has set up a Special Education Advisory Group and during 1978 intends to conduct a national survey which should show up students with special needs and possibly throw light on the question of when children with special needs should be educated in regular classes. The Commission hopes the survey will enable it to make recommendations concerning provision for children with learning difficulties. The Curriculum Development Centre is also interested in special education and is planning a project in the area. 
In pan as a direct result of the Select Committee's report, the former Universities Commission surveyed and reviewed in 1977 the development of teacher education programs in special education in Australian universities. It was found that these courses do in fact concentrate on learning difficulties rather than on physical and mental handicaps. 
In the area of adult literacy, which was a major concern of the Select Committee, my Depanment has provided secretariat and support services to assist the Australian Council for Adult Literacy during its first year of operation. 
In addition, the Government 's continued support for the education and welfare of Aborigines and migrants is contributing significantly to combating learning difficulties within those groups. 
When the Select Committee 's report was presented it was pointed out that the classroom teacher must be the key to the attempt to overcome learning difficulties. As the majority of teachers are employed in the States and the State education authorities are substantially responsible for establishing their own priorities in the allocation of resources for primary and secondary education, the report was referred in 1 977 to the Australian Education Council. It will be discussed again at the Council 's next meeting in July 1 978. 
The Select Committee's report was concerned with teacher education, and its  Chairman  has spoken of unsatisfactory elements in the training currently being offered to teachers. I am myself concerned about the quality of teacher education and I am consulting with the State Ministers in preparation for instituting a national inquiry into teacher education. The inquiry will examine the field of teacher education in general, taking into account the whole range of needs. The latest information on learning difficulties will be made available to the inquiry and it is my view that a wide ranging teacher education inquiry is necessary to produce effective changes that will be generally adopted and lead to the improvement of learning opportunities of children throughout Australia. 
Review of Family Law Act  (Question No. 12SS) 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3) The Committee on the Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools was set up by the Commonwealth Government with the agreement of the State Ministers for Education. It was always intended that the Committee's Report would be of use and guidance to State and non-government education authorities, to individual schools and to the community generally, as well as to the Commonwealth Government. The Report emphasises (in recommendation 8, page 120) that schools themselves should decide whether, to what extent, and in what ways, migrant (community) languages and cultures should be studied and that there should be consultation in this respect with parents and the local community. 
The recommendations have however received individual consideration in the context of a comprehensive analysis of a number of inter-related reports recently completed by u review group within my Department. The report of the review group, which is an internal working document and therefore not intended for publication, will provide the basis on which further action can be taken in consultation with the other authorities concerned in influencing the greater development of community language teaching which the Commonwealth Government supports as a matter of policy. 
The recently tabled Report, 'Migrant Services and Programs', gives also major attention to multicultural issues. Its recommendations, including those on multicultural education and the teaching of community languages, have been accepted by the Government and will be implemented expeditiously. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The consolidated report referred to is not exclusively devoted to the teaching of migrant languages but covers a number of areas of relevance to education policy. It was prepared as an internal working document and was not intended for publication. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) A total of 7 libraries and Information Centres exist within the Commonwealth Depanment of Education. 
The Central Depanmental Library is supported by an Information Centre in each of the six State capitals. These depanmental libraries are relatively autonomous and of varying sizes and provide information and research material for Education Depanment officers. 
The Depanment has direct responsibility for government pre-schools and schools in the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory Education Division's Media Centre provides teachers, principals and depanmental officers with library material and information and also carries out some processing of materials for schools within the Territory. 
Currently 1974-75 1975-76 1976-77 1977-78 held 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The Tertiary Education Commission does not have an established program for the funding of specific research projects in tertiary education institutions. However, the Commission does recommend special research grants for universities which are used, in part, to finance their research programs. Special research grants are for general research support, particularly to those members of the academic staff of universities who have promising research projects which are as yet unsupported by outside funds or who have responsibilities for the training of research students. Apart from these general conditions, the Commission does not impose detailed conditions on universities regarding the distribution of special research grants and it is not involved in the detailed administration of these grants. Universities have adopted a variety of methods to allocate special research grants and all involve an assessment of the merit of individual research projects proposed for funding. The estimated special research grant for each university for 1977-78 is set out in the attached table. 
It should also be noted that tertiary education institutions, especially universities, finance research from general recurrent funds recommended by the Commission, although there is considerable difficulty in measuring the amount of expenditure from this source devoted to research activities. 
The Department of Education and other agencies such as the Schools Commission and the Education Research and Development Committee (ERDC) may provide funds to tertiary education institutions for education research. Funds obtained from such sources may be in the form of research grants for specific projects and are usually in response to proposals initiated by individual researchers or by way of research 'contracts' relating to policy research and program evaluation studies commissioned by an agency. Details of grants for education research may be obtained from the annual reports of the relevant agencies. 
It is possible for tertiary education institutions to receive funds for research from other Commonwealth departments and authorities. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
I am advised that the  Chairman  of the Schools Commission has recently written to the Crown Solicitor seeking his advice on a number of aspects of the sale and of the possible reimbursement of the Commonwealth in respect of building grants. When this advice has been communicated to me I will communicate further with the honourable member. 
Federal-State Ministerial Councils and their Advisory Committees (Question No. 114) 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information given in answer to Parliamentary Question No. 228 on 2 June 1977  (Hansard,  page 2546) has been up-dated and is set out below: 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (d) Australian medical schools include aspects of dermatology in their undergraduate courses. In addition, the University of Sydney offers a graduate diploma course in dermatology. 
The Government, on the advice of the Tertiary Education Commission, provides financial support for all Australian universities by way of general block grants for various broad categories of operating expenditure as well as for building projects. The prime responsibility for the internal allocation of operating funds to particular courses and programs, including the medical schools, rests with individual universities. 
There are currently no Australian universities which have Chairs of Dermatology. 
I present the following papers for the information of honourable members: 
Australian Postal Commission- Service and Business Outlook for year 1978-79. 
Australian Telecommunications Commission- Service and Business Outlook for year 1978-79. 
Ordered that the papers be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Telephone instruments are purchased under public tendering conditions and it is not the practice to publicise prices quoted by suppliers. 
No. 
No. Compared with a standard instrument, touchfones are currently more expensive to maintain because on a per installation basis at current levels of penetration manhour requirements are greater in respect of both skill and time. Inventory and replacement costs are also higher. 
Additional charges are made for push-button units because the current costed issue rate for the initial supply of Touchfones, which includes a component for administrative costs, is over 200 per cent higher than for a standard instrument. Under these circumstances the Commission has adopted a policy that subscribers who elect to have a standard instrument installed should not be required to meet any part of these additional costs. Therefore, subscribers who have touchfones installed make a once-only additional payment of $50 and are charged additional annual rental of $24. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The existing telephone network is not equipped to time local calls and Telecom Australia has not programmed the necessary equipment modifications to enable such calls to be timed. 
Given that timing equipment is not installed it is difficult to provide an accurate estimate of additional revenue which could result from such a charging structure. However, based on information collected from manual sampling of telephone calls, additional earnings could be $38m per annum on current traffic levels. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
However it is one of several properties which have been under consideration for a mail centre, in consultation with the Department of Administrative Services. 
I have been advised that the premises have not been recently offered for sale by public auction. 
So far as is known the title of the property is in the name of Metters Ltd and the property is being sold by John McIlwraith Industries Limited. 
No Commissioner of the Australian Postal Commission has any direct or indirect interest in either of the companies concerned or their affiliates, nor have they at any time acted in any capacity for or on behalf of these companies or their affiliates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telecom Australia advises that on current estimates the cost would be (a) $45 million; (b) $ 16.2 million. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All mail and telegrams addressed to the self-styled Croatian Embassy in Canberra are delivered in accordance with the physical address details shown. No arrangements have been sought specifically for the delivery of postal articles addressed to the 'Embassy'. 
No publication of self-styled Croatian Embassy in Canberra is registered in either Category B or Category A, nor has an application for registration of any publication been received. 
Acting on advice from the Department of Foreign Affairs, an applicant for telephone service in the name of the Croatian Embassy was advised by Telecom that the application was not acceptable because it was understood that he was not a member of a diplomatic mission of a sovereign government with which Australia has established diplomatic relations. A service was subsequently applied for and provided in the personal name of the applicant. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The costs of providing facilities for the interconnection of telephone exchanges increase with distance. There is therefore a limit to the distance over which Telecom Australia can economically provide local call access. In the case of the Melbourne metropolitan zone, local calls have not been provided to exchanges more than about 40 km radially from the GPO. This limit is already in excess of that which normally applies and is made possible by the greater concentration of subscribers in the metropolitan area. It has not been possible, however, to extend the zone to include the Cranbourne exchange which is approximately 43.5 km from the GPO. 
Telecom Australia does not at this stage intend to expand the Melbourne extended local service area to include other exchanges. Late last year, however, my predecessor, the  Hon.  E. L. Robinson, requested the Commission to review the whole question of local call access so as to correct any anomalies. The question of extending metropolitan zones to include the larger developments adjacent to the existing defined areas is part of this review. 
Tribunals associated with the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development (Question No. 7.8) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) All mail and telegrams addressed to the self-styled Croatian Embassy in Canberra are delivered in accordance with the physical address details shown. No arrangements have been sought specifically for the delivery of postal articles addressed to the 'Embassy'. 
b) No publication of the self-styled Croatian Embassy in Canberra is registered in either Category B or Category A, nor has an application for registration of any publication been received. 
Acting on advice from the Department of Foreign Affairs, an applicant for telephone service in the name of the Croatian Embassy was advised by Telecom that the application was not acceptable because it was understood that he was not a member of a diplomatic mission of a sovereign government with which Australia has established diplomatic relations. A service was subsequently applied for and provided in the personal name of the applicant. 
The attention of the two Commissions was not specifically drawn to the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is no doubt, however, that both Commissions are well aware of government policy in these matters and strictly adhere to it. 
There is no intention on the part of the Government or either Commission to precipitate a situation similar to the one to which the honourable member refers. Postal and telecommunications services will continue to be provided on the basis outlined in 1 (a)- (c) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) sixty-six. 
$8,500. 
The information which has been collated for the honourable member is too lengthy and complex to be published in  Hansard.  Copies are available at the Table Office of the House of Representatives. 
The Minister for Education has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Capital Territory Apprenticeship Board; The Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority; The Commonwealth Teaching Service; The Curriculum Development Centre; The Schools Commission; The Tertiary Education Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has been drawn to the press report to which the honourable member refers. The allegation is without substance. 
Immigration: Expenditure on Advertising (Question No. 1412) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have read the article in the University of Adelaide students magazine  On DU  attributed to  Mrs Barbara  Biggins of the South Australian Council for Children's Films and Television.  Mrs Biggins  appeared before the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal at its public inquiry into the concept of self-regulation for broadcasters.  Her  views on children's television advertising were taken into account by the Tribunal in framing its subsequent report and recommendations. 
The article quotes the results of a study of Adelaide television which indicated that approximately 50 per cent of advertisements between 4.00 p.m. and 6.00 p.m. were for food or drink most of which, according to the article were likely to have high sugar content. 
I am aware of the existence overseas of laws relating to misleading or unlawful advertising. For instance, in the United States the Federal Trade Commission is empowered to require advertisers found guilty of breaches of advertising legislation, to make appropriate retractions. There have been cases where advertisers have been obliged to televise announcements correcting false or misleading claims made in television advertisements. The Honourable Member will appreciate that conditions prevailing in the broadcasting field in other countries are different in many important aspects from those in Australia, nevertheless I will ask my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to supply me with details of overseas legislation relevant to your question. 
Guidelines for advertising directed to children already exist. These were developed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and are administered by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal as part of its Television Program Standards. They provide as follows: 
Children should not be directly urged to put pressure on parents to purchase the product advertised. 
Advertisements should accurately represent the product, and claims concerning specific product qualities should be capable of being substantiated. 
Advertisements must be clearly recognisable as such and separate from the presentation of program matter. 
Personalities or characters from children's programs should not be used to endorse or recommend products within or adjacent to children's programs. 
Children in advertisements should be wellmannered, well-behaved, and show respect for parents. 
There should be no implication that the possession of a product makes the owners superior to their peers, nor that lack of the product may lead to ridicule and contempt No comparison should be made with last year's models or competitive makes in such a way as to make a child possessing these feel inferior. 
With the objective of avoiding excessive repetition in the telecasting of advertisements directed to children, a station should exercise discretion in the placement of identical advertisements within any regularly scheduled program directed to children. 
If a price is mentioned, the complete price of the product should be made clear, preferably both aurally and visually, and advertisements should clearly indicate the cost of those items which constitute the original purchase and additional items that must be purchased separately. 
Undue emphasis should not be placed on the use of such words as 'only ' or 'just ' in stating the price of the product. 
In the case of a product that must be assembled this should be made clear and where necessary, the source of power and method of operation should be indicated. 
Where reference is made to competitions, the applicable rules should be made clear and the value of prizes and the chances of winning should not be exaggerated. 
Results shown or claimed for advertised products, such as toys or games, should be attainable by an average child without an undue degree of skill. 
Except in the case of specific safety messages, advertisements should not portray unsafe acts or dangerous situations, e.g. children ignoring traffic regulations or conversing with strangers. 
Advertising of products not intended for use by children, except for gift-giving, should not be directed to children. 
Frightening dramatisations or effects should not be included in advertisements directed to children. 
The practice described by the honourable member is prohibited by specific provisions in the Television Program Standards except in the case of promotions consisting of voice-over slides' as distinct from film extracts. The Tribunal vigorously pursues complaints alleging breaches of the program standards. Any breaches of this provision will, of course, be raised also during public inquiries into the renewal of the licence of the station concerned. 
In its report and recommendations 'Self-Regulation for Broadcasters?' published last year following its public inquiry, the Tribunal stated that it expected that industry codes would include provisions relating to times of promotion of programs so that those for adults-only type programs were confined to times when the programs themselves were permitted to be shown. Programs for family viewing and for children could be promoted at any time other than times set aside specifically for children's viewing when special guidelines set down by a Children's Program Committee would operate. The Tribunal's report is currently being examined by the Government and these aspects will certainly have received consideration. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Schools Commission report for the triennium 1979-81, dated July 1978, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the report. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Student Assistance Act 1 973 I present the report on the operation of that Act in 1 977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The commitment of expenditure for each of the years concerned was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In respect of each exchange area in the Electoral Division of Hughes the situation is as follows: 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  invited us to telephone some union leaders tonight. Thanks to the members of the Austraiian Telecommunications Employees Association, we cannot telephone union leaders tonight. My colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  cannot, even in an emergency situation, dial the phone numbers of members of the National Labour Consultative Council in order to arrange an urgent meeting on this crisis facing telecommunications in this country. Some of us cannot even dial a prayer. 
If the honourable member for Port Adelaide is serious about getting the Budget back on the front pages of the newspapers- that is something he seems to desire- then I invite him to encourage the members of the ATEA to accept Commissioner Clarkson 's proposals. Then, happily, the Budget will be back on the front pages of the newspapers. We would support him in that sort of invitation to members of the ATEA. 
The Opposition today is failing to face up to the real issues facing the Australian people. It is behaving in precisely the same way in which it behaved when it was in government and when, in the pursuit of its program, it failed to face up to the real issues which faced the Australian people. Let me give the House an illustration from the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide of the way in which the Opposition, even tonight, is failing to face the real issues in this situation of crisis facing telecommunications in Australia. The honourable member for Port Adelaide said that negotiations are at a very difficult stage. The fact is that today the executive of the ATEA refused to negotiate. Today it refused to go to arbitration. 
I do not propose to waste time on members of the Opposition. The matters facing the Government and facing Australia today are too serious for us to waste time on speeches such as that just made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. Everyone in Australia today is being seriously inconvenienced by the action of the ATEA. We face what is potentially a disastrous situation. Business and ordinary residential telephone subscribers are having great difficulty making calls through the network. For instance, it has been almost impossible to telephone Sydney from Canberra, Melbourne from Sydney, and so on and so forth. Whilst most people are able to use the local telephone service, great delays are being experienced in the use of the trunk services throughout the whole of the country. Because of the black bans, as late as this afternoon the main trunk exchange at Adelaide was closed down completely. This afternoon large numbers of international circuits were out of order in our main cable to South East Asia. 
The cause of this serious situation lies directly with the irresponsible action taken by the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association. This union has been engaged in industrial action for at least a month. Quite specifically, the issues involved for the ATEA are, firstly, resistance to the introduction of new technology and, secondly, easier promotion for its members without normal and proper qualifications to higher positions and thus, of course, higher pay. No matter how the union tries to disguise this issue, its real motive is clearly set out on page 121 of the July 1978 edition of the union's own journal  Teletechnician.  It reads: 
The objective in regard to this matter is to raise the maximum rate of pay for the tradesman to the same rate as the maximum rate of pay for the technician and that both classifications be permitted to perform the same work in the field. 
This would necessitate a salary increase of approximately $1,000 per annum for 3,000 tradesmen, most of whom would never be required to perform the higher functions of a technician. 
Let us consider the new technology. Telecom Australia has a statutory obligation under the Telecommunications Act to provide telecommunications services for the Australian public. Amongst other things, it is required specifically to have regard to the desirability of improving and extending its telecommunications services in the light of developments in the field of communications. Obviously it is essential that new technology be used if charges to Telecom's customers are to be kept as low as possible. The new equipment which is currently under dispute is being introduced simply because it provides the most efficient and most economical method of updating the switching system. It also will provide many new additional services which will meet the special needs of customers. It will be cheaper to buy, install and maintain this new equipment than to develop the existing network in the old way. In fact, costs by the 1980s will be $50m less with the new equipment. It also will achieve greater reliability, lower maintenance and better facilities. The real costs of providing and maintaining telephone services will be reduced, more people will be able to have a telephone service, and employment will be generated within Telecom and within the Australian telecommunications industry. 
The ATEA, which represents only about one quarter of Telecom 's employees, has complained that it is concerned about the employment situation for its members. This clearly is a smokescreen. Not one of its members will be sacked; not one of its members will lose any salary. The firmest guarantees have been given in the arbitration system by Telecom in relation to these matters. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  pointed out, there are few workers in this country who have their jobs guaranteed for 10 years. Members of the ATEA are in the privileged class of Australia's workers. I might add that they enjoy a 36% hour working week and 9 days a fortnight. 
Let us look into the future. Whilst the number of ATEA members engaged in switching equipment maintenance will be reduced, there will be a slight growth in the technical work force over the next five years. One manufacturer of this equipment is fully under way in its production. The equipment will be produced within Australia, thus providing many jobs for Australian workers in the telecommunications industry. The bans which have been applied by the ATEA are now interfering seriously with business, as I have said, and they also are threatening the jobs of many Australian workers. The loss of revenue which Telecom is suffering will seriously threaten the jobs of many Australian workers. Currently Telecom's revenue is being reduced by $lm a day. So far about $20m has been lost by Telecom. Quite clearly, the reductions in Telecom revenues will seriously threaten the jobs of many workers. They could well lead to long delays in the provision of essential Telecom equipment and services in country and metropolitan areas which are included m the current works program. 
With the full support and encouragement of the Government, Telecom announced that in November this year there would be quite substantial reductions in trunk line charges. These were possible only because of the proper use of new technology. In the current situation these concessions are clearly threatened as a result of the union's action. Planned reductions in longdistance off-peak rates represent a 60 per cent reduction on the day rate. Intermediate distance rates were to be reduced by 10 per cent and 20 per cent during the day. The reductions in rates would reduce costs to the consumer by a total of $30m a year. These reductions are now in peril. New technology has also enabled basic charges to be held, even in times of inflation. Costs to the consumer have been steadily reducing in real terms. Significant improvements in rural areas are being planned, such as extensions to local service areas which will be of enormous benefit to rural people. There is also the introduction within about 10 years of automatic exchanges covering almost every Australian. In the metropolitan area there will be the introduction of modifications to the extended local service areas alongside the great capital cities. The timing of these modifications might also be in peril because of the actions of the ATEA. 
Numerous attempts have been made to settle the dispute. There can be no question that I and other members of the Government, in constant discussion with Telecom, have created circumstances in which Telecom has offered the maximum concessions to Commissioner Clarkson and, therefore, to the ATEA. But, in the face of a total acceptance by Telecom of Commissioner Clarkson 's recommendations, the ATEA has rejected them. It is obvious that the specific recommendations which have been made by Commissioner Clarkson are not merely minor concessions. They are substantial concessions on the part of Telecom. The first three related to the staff structure. They included, for instance, the recommendation that the classifications of tradesman and technician be restructured and retitled. The second recommendation was that the salaries of the restructured classifications would be the subject of arbitration which would take into account any changes in the value of the work. The third recommendation was that the question of promotion and standards required for promotion be arbitrated. 
Telecom is prepared to look at the whole issue and to have it arbitrated. Clearly, Telecom's total acceptance of Commissioner Clarkson 's proposal, which was supported by the Government after discussion with Telecom, indicates its preparedness to have the crisis in telecommunications in Australia resolved promptly and properly. Further, Telecom agreed to trials of its new maintenance equipment with independent assessment. This demonstrates the reasonable attitude of Telecom. In addition, on the issue of new technology Telecom has adopted a forward looking policy. Telecom has a consultative council comprising 10 representatives of the unions and seven representatives of management. 
The Telecom consultative council in September last year appointed a new technology sub-committee. The sub-committee's task is to review existing arrangements for the introduction of new technology in Telecom and to recommend new procedures which have regard to the interests of the staff affected and staff relations generally, as well as Telecom's customer and community responsibilities. This subcommittee on new technology includes representatives of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union, the Australian Telephonists and Phonogram Operators Association, the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association, the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, the Australian Public Service Association, the Professional Officers Association and the Australian Professional Engineers Association. Between them these organisations cover 74,000 of Telecom's 87,500 employees. The seriousness with which Telecom regards this new technology sub-committee is underlined by the fact that it is chaired by Telecom's  Deputy  Chief General Manager. The sub-committee has now reached the stage where draft detailed procedures and conditions of service for the introduction of new technology are being considered by the staff side and a union position paper is being considered by management. 
The public's patience is at an end. The Government will not waver from its determination that Telecom Australia must be able to fulfil its responsibility to provide the Australian people with services which are as efficient and economical as possible. Telecom must be able to do this in the light of development in the field of communications. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The estimated cost for maternity leave in the Department of Education is as follows: 
1975- 76- $101,679.28 
1976- 77-$155,996.39 
1977- 78-$204,471.38. 

1975- 76-28,413 hours 1976- 77-37,685 hours 1977- 78-39,334 hours. 
and (4) No information in answer to these questions is available to me at the present time. I draw the honourable member's attention to the reply to Quesdon 1206  (Hansard,  15 August 1978, page 3 13). 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) In general waste paper from my Department and the statutory authorities under my control is collected and disposed of by the Department of Administrative Services. 
Waste ferrous metals from the Canberra College of Technical and Further Education are collected by a private contractor for recycling. More valuable waste metals, such as lead, copper and brass, are collected for re-sale by the Department of Administrative Services. 
Government schools in the Australian Capital Territory ensure that the best possible use is made of waste materials of all kinds. The Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority, which places great importance on environmental matters, is to set up a task force of teachers and students to examine further the recycling and re-use of suitable waste. 
In the Northern Territory, both the Education Division of my Department and the Darwin Community College re-use waste paper as far as possible, although there are no current arrangements for recycling. The College re-uses the bulk of the scrap metal generated to the point of no commercial value. 
I refer the honourable member to the reply to Question 1437  (Hansard,  15 August 1978, page 334). 
Services to Primary Producers in Isolated Areas (Question No.  1514) 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Department of Education for 1977. 
I expect in the fairly near future to be able to announce the result of Government consideration with respect to new appointments to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
-Maybe it is delayed in the mail,  Mr Speaker.  The facts are that the Government will honour its commitment made before the last election to extend television into the areas promised at that time. In fact, we will in one respect be able to go further in some parts of Australia. As I indicated at a meeting this morning, I hope quite soon to be putting proposals before the Government whereby we will look at the conversion of part of our remote area television program to satellite by leasing facilities of the International Telecommunications Satellite Organisation. 
I am delighted that my colleague, the honourable member for Kennedy who has asked me some questions on this matter is so delighted about it. This matter at the moment is being developed and I will put a proposal before the Government quite soon. That would, of course, mean that we would be providing not only what we promised for remote areas at the last election but also a better service than that which we undertook to provide at that time. The precise details as to when there will be action in particular electorates is a matter which is still under consideration and because we are looking at this further development of our undertakings there is a little bit to be done in the way of detail. I will let the honourable member have whatever information I can and I will follow up that letter as promised. 
The honourable member raises a very important matter. Indeed, he drew my attention to a newspaper article this morning. The Government attaches the greatest importance to Australian Broadcasting Commission rural services. To people in remote areas and in rural parts of Australia the ABC services are a positive lifeline. The Government believes that the ABC must always be prepared to devote a significant part of its resources to the provision of these services. By extending television and radio broadcasts into new and outback areas we are, of course, all the time improving the services and making them more available to a wider number of people. I will look into the matters raised by the honourable member and ask the ABC for information about the matters contained in the newspaper article. I point out that at the foot of that article I think the director of rural services in the ABC indicated that no special sacrifices were being demanded of the ABC's rural department. Honourable members know that there is restraint all round but no special sacrifice, as I understand it, is being asked of the ABC's rural department. 
By holding stop work meetings during school hours, the ACT Teachers Federation is striking at the interests of parents. It is also striking at the best interests of students. There might be those students who would regard such action as a sort of diversion from drudgery but the great majority of parents are disturbed, if not outraged, by this type of action. They are particularly outraged by this type of action in the Australian Capital Territory where staff levels in schools will increase in real terms this year and where recurrent spending per head on secondary schools is well above the national level. Spending per head here on schools is 32 per cent above the national average. 
Why then is there this sort of stop work action and talk of further action by the teachers? There might be those who would be unkind enough to suggest that it might not be unrelated to the fact that in last Saturday's  Canberra Times  there was an announcement of elections for office bearers of the Teachers Federation and indeed that the pre-selection by the Labor Party for the seat held by the honourable member for Canberra at present is to be held next weekend. I understand- and again perhaps I might put it delicately- that the not unattractive  Chairman  of the ACT Education Authority is a candidate. 
The question is complex and the particular matters are matters for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. I might say that I believe that the law needs examination to see whether changes ought to be made in order that situations like the one raised by the honourable member can be looked at. When I bring to the Government next year the question of amendments of a significant nature to the Broadcasting and Television Act, I will particularly ask the Government to consider this type of matter. In the meantime, any question of contravention is one for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Tertiary Education Commission for the 1979-81 triennium, volume 2, containing recommendations for 1 979, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education. 
-The Minister for Social Security is concerned about some new by-laws, drawn up by the Australian Postal Commission, which, among other things, would not enable mail to be redirected. I had a brief discussion with her this morning when this matter was drawn to my attention and will have further discussions with her. But I make it clear that her Department has not agreed to take part in any such new system at this stage. 
I propose nothing. The Postal Commission drew up regulations after having had discussions with officers of  Senator Guilfoyle  's Department. The matter has been undertaken entirely at the Commission and officer level and was drawn to the Government's attention only today. 
I would point out that the Government's election commitment was to introduce significant reductions in off-peak calling rates. But when the time came to implement that undertaking the Commission decided that, in addition to providing very large reductions in off-peak rates between 9 p.m. and 8 a.m., there would also be reductions during the day, of in some cases 10 per cent and in others 20 per cent, for the intermediate distances mentioned by the honourable member. They are significant reductions of real benefit to very many Australians. However, of course, the Government would always be interested to see whether future savings would be possible to enable reductions during the day. I can make no commitment. I underline the fact that the introduction of the best and most modern technology enables savings which enable costs to the consumer to be lowered. Therefore, with the introduction of new equipment I hope that Telecom Australia will be able to continue to review charging structures and possibly further extend call charge reductions. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'National Communications Satellite System'. I seek leave to make a statement relating to the report. 
Leave granted. 
-The Government established a Task Force towards the end of last year under specific terms of reference to investigate and evaluate the social, economic, technical, policy and other issues associated with the establishment and operation of an Australian national communications satellite system. In brief, the Task Force was required to take into account the use of such a system to provide high quality radio and television broadcasting and other telecommunications services to all Australia, its application in the areas of health, education, science, transport and defence; its use by the private sector for improved communication information and other services; and the implications of a satellite on current radio and television services and the terrestrial communications system. 
The Task Force also was required to study overseas experience in this area and assess a satellite proposal presented to the Government by Television Corporation Limited, now Publishing &amp; Broadcasting Ltd, in August 1977. The report indicates that the adoption of a domestic satellite system in Australia would have many advantages. Above all, it could be a solution to our problems in providing communications to remote areas and isolated communities. The Government is concerned that some Australians still lack basic communications services; that they do not have television; that they are restricted in their access to radio; and that they suffer some cultural and social deprivation because they are beyond the reach of current communications. 
-The Government is determined to minimise communications disadvantages in Australia. A number of measures are currently being undertaken to this end. The point made by the honourable member for Swan is of interest. When I was travelling in outback Queensland the thought occurred to some people that those who are remote from some communications in this country are the privileged ones. The point I made to those people was that they ought to be free not to have to listen to whatever happens to be the current output of the particular media. 
The Task Force drew on existing expertise in government departments and statutory authorities. It received submissions and conducted public hearings in all States. The resulting report received by the Government identifies the benefits for public telecommunications and broadcasting services which Australia could derive from a national communications satellite system. The potential advantages for people in remote and isolated areas are particularly highlighted. The report also identifies potential improvements with communications associated with defence, transport, health, welfare, and education. The Task Force comes down in favour of the introduction of a national satellite communications system for Australia. However, in doing so, the Task Force makes it clear that a degree of uncertainty exists in available relevant information on cost projections. 
The Task Force also notes that any final decision to implement its recommendations to establish a national satellite communications system could not be made until confirmation of interest had been received from potential major users. It notes further that such confirmation would have to follow the calling and submission of tenders based on detailed system design for the development and launching of a national satellite system suited to Australian requirements. 
The majority view of the Task Force is that a new authority should be established to operate the space segment of any satellite system. A further recommendation is that earth stations should be owned jointly by the proposed national satellite authority and users of the system. The Task Force makes some broad recommendations on possible ways of providing more extensive television programming services throughout Australia. I will ensure that detailed consideration is given to all relevant policy issues and community needs before any decisions are taken in this particular area. 
The Task Force also focused on the practicability of establishing a national communications satellite system based on a direct broadcasting satellite service. It expressed the view that a general broadcasting satellite service, capable of broadcasting a number of programs directly into homes throughout Australia, would be impractical in the present state of technological development. It is also of the opinion that such a service would be premature in terms of the readiness of the broadcasting industry to accommodate general direct broadcasting of programs throughout the country. 
Nevertheless, the Task Force does recommend that a direct broadcasting service, limited to provision of national television and radio services to isolated communities and homesteads beyond the coverage range of terrestrial broadcasting services, should be considered for inclusion in any national communications satellite system. 
I would stress that the needs of remote homesteads and isolated communities are of great concern to the Government. This is certainly one of the options worthy of serious consideration in the context of moves to extend broadcasting services to those who do not now have access to any kind of radio or television programming. In fact, the Government will shortly be considering a proposal along similar lines. 
On the subject of meeting community needs, the Task Force also highlights the possible value to isolated communities in health care, education and general welfare from improved communications which could be facilitated by satellite. The Task Force also emphasises the value of the system in times of national emergency or disaster where it could provide transmission diversity over long distances. It makes recommendations on inclusion of Defence channels in a satellite system. The Task Force stresses that a long lead time would be involved in obtaining a satellite system for Australia. In view of this fact, it outlined the advantages which could be derived from conducting trials using INTELSAT satellites and the terrestrial system. The Department of Finance representative on the Task Force recorded a dissenting view in the area of the immediately identifiable cost benefits of a national communications satellite system. He was not satisfied that the benefits of a national satellite system could be facilitated at less cost via satellite than by other means. 
This report is one of which I believe the members of the Task Force can be proud. The Government appreciates the dedication and application with which the Task Force pursued the various matters involved. I have no doubt that Parliament will recognise the magnitude and complexity of the range of issues involved in matters dealt with by the Task Force. It is only right and proper that the Report should be made available to the public for the widest possible consideration, consultation and comment. Consequently, the Government has established a Working Group to consider the implications of both the Report and its recommendations. Also, it will be available to interested members of the public. We intend to allow a full three months for public consideration of the Report. I hope to see the broadest possible public input to Government deliberations on the Report. I now invite all interested individuals and groups to consider the Report and to forward submissions on it to my Department. The closing date will be 31 December of this year. 
Government decisions on the matters dealt with in this Report will establish the pattern of development for Australian communications services well into the twenty-first century. To put it plainly, we must weigh the many undoubted advantages of a national satellite system- and in particular the advantages to remote communities- against the key questions of costs, timing and methods of establishment, all of which are yet to be resolved. This Report is today being released for public comment to encourage the fullest possible debate before decisions are made. Copies will be available from offices of the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I did have a bit of trouble dialling prayers during the Telecom dispute when the telephones were out of order. I was invited by a couple of my colleagues, the honourable member for Dundas and the right honourable member for Lowe, not to dial a prayer but to dial the service Bible Answers to Life's Problems. Perhaps they have had rather more experience in dialling prayers and such matters than I, but I did dial the number that appears in the front of the Sydney telephone directory inviting people to receive Bible answers to life's problems. For those honourable members who are interestedthis will be good for the revenue of Telecom- the telephone number, under the area prefix 02, is 569 1000. When that number is dialled this is the message that is received: 
Welcome once again to Bible Answers to Life's Problems and once again I want to speak about elections, and the importance of voting. You hear on the television or see it as well: Wran's your man. And the many things that are emphasised about the good things that he and his Government have been doing. Well- the pros and cons are for you to consider and very shortly to cast a vote. But I want to say that there is a man who went about doing good, and the Spirit of the Lord was upon him, and his Government is the most important thing for your life and my life, and in relation to that man we must also cast a vote. 
Later, the message continues : 
I want to say at this time of the problem of election and voting, Christ 's your man. Vote for the Lord Jesus Christ and enjoy the blessings of his goodness and everlasting life. 
So, Neville's the man; but there was no mention of the gospel of John. The Telecom recording went on to talk about how the emphasis was in the book of Joshua so I read a little further, and I would suggest - 
Pursuant to section 52 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act 1972, I present the annual report on the operation of that Act for the year ended 3 1 December 1977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Community television aerial systems have been authorised in the following areas: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Ten community television aerial systems have been installed throughout Australia. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2)I have provided the honourable member with a reply to Question on Notice No. 12, (See House of Representatives  Hansard  of 15 August 1978 at page 288). 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
) Cost of maternity leave in the Post and Telecommunications Department in 1976- $19,131; 1977- $1 1,807; 1978-$364(till31May). 
Total hours of leave in respect of these employees in 1976- 4,508 hours; 1977-3,555 hours; 1978-110 hours (till 31 May). 
Number of employees who resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in 1976- nil; 1977- nil; 1978- nil (till 31 May). 
Sum paid for maternity leave for the first child in 1976- $19,131; 1977-$11,807; 1978- $364 (till 31 May). No officers have been on maternity leave more than once in the period concerned. 
Maternity leave (Question No. 1288) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 850,910; (b) 935,506; (c) 1,156,133 (services located in the Newcastle, Gosford, Windsor, Sydney, Penrith, Campbelltown and Wollongong charging districts. ) 
No. The explanatory note in Telecom 's Annual Report covers the definition of metropolitan areas used for statistical purposes. 
Local call access in metropolitan areas (or any other area ) is determined by the principle that local calls are available between exchanges in the same or adjoining telephone zones. Consequently, the local call area for subscribers served by exchanges in, say, the Sydney metropolitan area covers exchanges in the metropolitan zone and those in all zones within the outer metropolitan area, each of which adjoins the metropolitan zone. 
Based on recent studies, and excluding subscribers in the Sydney metropolitan and outer metropolitan zones who can call Sydney for a local call fee, the number of telephone services from which the call charge to Sydney would fall in the categories mentioned is as follows: 
62,169, (b) 130,686, (c) 262,673, (d) 443,867, (e) 534,327, ( f ) 579, 3 1 7, (g) 586,20 1 . 
The grouping of exchanges into zones and districts broadly follows the National Switching Plan which in turn has been based on an analysis of traffic flows between exchanges which indicated the direction of the main community of interest. In determining local call areas each centre is considered individually in relation to others in the area. The direction and extent of community of interest between centres is taken into account but other factors, including the geography of an area, population density and distribution and availability of reasonable community services within the existing local call area are important considerations. 
As it is not possible to convert all exchanges immediately priorities for conversion are based on a number of factors which include the number of subscribers involved, the service they are receiving, the capital required for conversion, the condition of external plant and exchange equipment in the area, and the need for extension of the exchange equipment. 
Telecom plans to progressively extend the automatic network with all subscribers being connected to automatic exchanges in about ten years. As very high capital investment is involved it is important to extend the automatic network through each district on a planned basis. 
Sales Tax on Sporting Goods (Question No. 1379) 
-the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The general arrangements in my Department and statutory authorities under my control is for any potentially valuable waste materials to be sold to commercial waste collection agencies or collected by charitable organisations. 
See(l). 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) It is not possible to provide information in respect of payments to individual government schools except in relation to grants made under the Special Projects (Innovations) Program and the Disadvantaged Schools Program of the Schools Commission. The Commonwealth Government provides bulk funding to the Victorian Government for government schools programs to disburse on a needs basis as it sees fit. 
Funds for non-government schools in the electoral division of Melbourne Ports in the period in question have been made available under programs administered by the Department of Education and the Schools Commission. 
Programs administered by the Department of Education: Funds administered by the Department of Education were made available under the following acts: 
States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act 1 97 1 
States Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1 969 
States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Act 1 97 1 
States Grants (Schools) Act 1972 
Payments made under these acts are set out in reports which were tabled in the Senate on the dates listed below: 
States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act 1971: 27 October 1972; 12 December 1973; 28 October 1975; 4 May 1976. 
States Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1969: 13 December 1972; 12 March 1974; 5 December 1974. 
States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Act 1971: 17 May 1972; 3 April 1973; 23 July 1974; 29 May 1975. 
States Grants (Schools) Act 1972: 12November 1974. 
Programs administered by the Schools Commission: Payments for the years 1974-76 are set out in the reports which were tabled in the Senate on the dates listed below: 
Report-States Grants (Schools) Act 1972 -Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1974-75-19 May 1976. 
Report-States Grants (Schools) Act 1972-Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1975-76-2 November 1977. 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1972- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1976-77-23 February 1978. 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1973-Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1 974- 1 October 1 975. 
Report-States Grants (Schools) Act 1973- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1975-30 November 1976. 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1 973- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1 976-25 August 1 977. 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1976- Financial Assistance granted to each State- 23 February 1978. 
Information in respect of the years 1977 and 1978 is not covered in the above reports. In relation to non-government schools it is set out in the schedules below. 
The following funds have been allocated to government schools in Victoria through Schools Commission Programs: 
I am not responsible for broadcasting matters in China or Thailand, and I did not in fact hear the broadcast to which the honourable member has referred. Matters relating to 3CR, which is a restricted commercial station, and to other commercial and public stations are matters for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and any complaints or queries relating to their performance can be made to the Tribunal. In fact the Tribunal has had a number of complaints in recent times about station 3CR. I have had complaints made to me and I have passed them on to the Tribunal. The Tribunal has been examining those complaints, and as a first step it has arranged today discussions with 3CR about the complaints which have been made in particular by the Jewish community about the treatment of news relating to Israel and Jews here and overseas. 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
Non-official Post Offices: Display of Party Political Material (Question No. 1182) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Non-official post offices are not permitted to display party political material within its precincts. Often, nonofficial post offices, however, are conducted in conjunction with another business and not in self-contained premises. In many cases, the post office and private business areas are in very close proximity and it is often difficult to define clearly the boundary between the two areas. 
Australia Post could issue directions only in relation to areas used for the provision of postal services. In these areas, the display of notices of a political nature would not be condoned by Australia Post. Should any such case come to notice, the non-official postmaster concerned would be requested to remove the notice. 
Australia Post has no authority to control the type of material displayed in the private business section of such premises. 
Post Offices and Posting Boxes: Closure and Re-siting (Question No. 1223) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) It is the policy of Australia Post to review all facilities, including posting facilities, periodically to ensure that available resources are put to the most effective use. 
A street posting box in which, on average, less than 30 letters a day are posted and which is located within 800 metres of another posting facility would generally be withdrawn. 
In  lj  urban area, a post office which does not handle sufficient postal work to occupy at least on person full time and which is located within two kilometres of another post office, would generally be closed. 
In a rural area, a post office which is used mainly for counter delivery of mail and which handles very little other counter business may be closed if satisfactory alternative mail delivery arrangements can be made. 
In any case where the relocation of a facility or its withdrawal is considered, such a decision is made in the light of likely changes in usage and other proposals to introduce or withdraw other similar facilities in the area. 
As post offices are no longer involved with Social Security payments, the dependence of the elderly and infirm on post office counter services has been reduced significantly. Even so, the needs of all local residents, including the elderly and infirm, are taken into consideration when decisions are made concerning the relocation or withdrawal of postal facilities. 
The numbers of posting boxes, official post offices and non-official post offices removed or re-sited by Australia Post since 1 July 1975 in the Electoral Division of Ryan and the Brisbane Statistical Division are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
After careful consideration of the matter, it was decided not to formally refer complaints to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, on the grounds that the public inquiry procedure would allow ample opportunity for open and public consideration of both complaints and commendations. Many interested parties have taken advantage of the public inquiries to present their points of view. 
For the information of honourable members I present a statement by the Minister for Education on programs of the Schools Commission for 1979. 
Pursuant to section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, I present the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 99 of the Telecommunications Act 1975, I present the annual report of the Australian Telecommunications Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present the final report of the Tertiary Education Commission on study leave in universities and colleges of advanced education, together with a statement by the Minister for Education. 
For the information of honourable members I present the recommendations of the Tertiary Education Commission on recurrent grants for universities and colleges of advanced education for 1980-81 together with a statement by the Minister for Education on programs of the Tertiary Education Commission for 1979-81. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Telecom Australia supports open planning principles wherever possible and will continue investigating existing and improved ways of facilitating interaction between itself and communities of interest. 
The Common User Data Network (CUDN) at the Melbourne and Sydney Centres will continue to provide service to TAA until late 1 978, and to the Department of Health until early 1979. The equipment is working satisfactorily. 
Progressive reductions in the price of leased lines as a result of improved technology in the trunk network, and rapid development in mini computers, have been the principal factors in the limited life of CUDN. Both TAA and the Department of Health will operate their own computer systems using Telecom leased lines. 
No. 
The current move to decentralise mail handling in NSW forms part of a national plan aimed at phasing out large Central Mail Exchanges and replacing them with several smaller facilities which are: more appropriately located to provide a speedy and reliable mail service; capable of ready adaptation to meet changing community needs in the mail service over the next decade and beyond and considered to offer potential for improvement of working conditions and management/staff relationships. 
Significant progress on the decentralisation plan has already been made in Victoria and the results there confirm that mail handling in decentralised facilities is more effective and efficient than was the case when most of the State's mail was processed through the large Central Mail Exchange. It is expected that similar results will be achieved in NSW as the program for decentralisation proceeds. 
The letter handling equipment currently used at the Sydney Central Mail Exchange handles approximately 1.4 million letters each working day. Problems when the equipment was first installed did result in the damage and destruction of some mail. These problems, however, were overcome many years ago, and instances of delays to or destruction of letters by this equipment are now extremely rare. Most of the significant mail delays in NSW have been caused by industrial problems. It is expected that the smaller centres proposed will lead to an improvement in this respect also. 
No. Telecom is taking full advantage of the experience gained from ARE II installations in other countries. 
There are approximately 150,000 lines of ARE II equipment installed in the world, of which 14,000 lines are installed in busy suburban areas in Australia. 
Telecom is following the common overseas practice in Centralised Exchange Maintenance and has accumulated considerable experience at a number of centres in Australia. 
Telecom is also simulating the common overseas practice of centralised control of maintenance activities in its approach to the maintenance of its ARE II installations at Elsternwick, Victoria and Salisbury, SA, and this experience has indicated the practicability of the centralised maintenance approach. 
The change is not comparable. Cross-bar was a total switching system whereas ARE II is cross-bar with AN A30 a computerised register. 
Total investment in Cross-bar equipment to date is estimated to be $550m. Total retraining costs on cross-bar are not readily available. 
Yes. Present plans are based on a continuation of cross-bar in the network for at least such a period. 
Detailed evaluation studies, conducted over a number of years, were carried out and resulted in the decision to modify the equipment as now proposed. 
The evaluation studies were part of on-going work activities by a number of Telecom staff, some of whom carried out these studies in addition to other functions. It is estimated the total cost was $ 1 60,000. 
The conclusion drawn in 1960 on the benefits of cross-bar over the continued use of step-by-step equipment have been proven correct. However, it would be impossible to accurately quantify the benefits in monetary terms because of the changes in development brought about by the cross-bar decision. For example, cross-bar provided the means by which the national Subscriber Trunk Dialling network was introduced and this has resulted in a major stimulus to trunk calls. Also, the use of alternate routing paths and high speed information signalling, has meant that the resulting telephone network structure is not comparable to an obsolete step-by-step network. 
The ATEA was advised on 29 October 1974, that field trials of the ARE II system would be held under laboratory conditions in Melbourne, and also at Salisbury in South Australia and Elsternwick in Victoria. 
The Commission decided on the ARE II program in September 1976 some months after the cutover of the Elsternwick Exchange, and after substantial experience with the laboratory installations. 
The ATEA on 5 April 1976, sought any information that was available from the Salisbury and Elsternwick installations. This was willingly provided on 2 July 1976. 
These matters were raised during the many discussions held with the ATEA on ARE II and a full explanation was given. 
As a result of the overall modernisation program, there could be up to 600 less technical staff required, compared to the present staffing levels. However there will be no redundancy because of the natural wastage and limited redevelopment that will occur. 
Staffing studies relating to AXE are still being conducted, but present indications are that more than one Maintenance Officer will be employed per 20,000 lines of AXE equipment. 
19) As indicated in the answer to ( 18), staffing studies relating to AXE are still being carried out. Telecom, however, is unlikely to replace all the step-by-step and hybrid exchange equipment before the year 2000. 
New ARE II installations will require 5 per cent less man-hours than cross-bar. New AXE installations will require significantly less man-hours than for cross-bar for similar sized installations but studies on this aspect are still being undertaken. 
1 ) It is not expected that there will be a reduction in engineering and administrative personnel and associated support staff employed by Telecom. 
The introduction of ARE II and AXE will have no overall effect on the number of telephonists currently employed. Other changes that will affect the number of telephonists required have been discussed with the relevant staff association. 
Job vacancies of course, depend not only on the number of positions available, but also on turnover of staff in a particular group. Revenue is directly related to the service provided to the customer and the cost of that service. The greatest benefit will therefore accrue to the customer with the earliest introduction of ARE II. 
A great deal of information has already been given to the ATEA. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian Telecommunciations Commission; Australian Postal Commission; Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia); Australian Broadcasting Commission; Australian Broadcasting Tribunal; Special Broadcasting Service. 
(In the answer to this pan of the question, where appropriation figures are given, the figure in brackets following is the actual expenditure from that appropriation.) 
Australian Telecommunciations Commission: Yes. 
(i) 1975-76-5403,000,000 ($392,000,000); (ii) 1976-77-$215,000,000 ($215,000,000); (iii) 1977-78- $65,000,000 ($65,000,000). 
b) the appropriations were on one line. 
Australian Postal Commission: Yes. 
(i) 1975-76-$ 15,000,000 ($4,000,000); (U) 1976-77 -nil; (iii) 1977-78-nil. 
the appropriations were on one line. 
Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia): No. 
Australian Broadcasting Commission: Yes. 
(i) 1975-76-$ 136,230,000 ($132,800,000); (ii) 1976- 77 - $ 140, 168,000 ($13 9,046,000); (iii) 
1 977- 78-$ 1 4 1 ,384,000 ($ 1 40,5 1 8,000). 
The appropriations were on one line. 
Australian Broadcasting Tribunal: Yes. 
(i) 1975-76-nil; (ii) 1976-77- $1, 100,000 ($1,100,000); (iii) 1977-78-$2,540,000 ($2,540,000). 
b ) the appropriations were on one line. 
Special Broadcasting Service: Yes. 
(i) 1975-76-nil; (ii) 1976-77-nil; (iii) 1977-78-$ 1,00 1 ,000 ($ 1,00 1,000). 
the appropriations were on one line. 
The Auditor-General is responsible for the audit of each statutory authority. 
The Australian Telecommunications Commission was established in 1975 by the Telecommunications Act 1975. 
The Australian Postal Commission was established in 1 975 by the Postal Services Act 1 975. 
The Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) was established in 1946 by the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1 946. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission was established in 1932 by the Australian Broadcasting Commission Act 1932. This Act was superseded by the Broadcasting Act 1942, which in turn was superseded by the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. 
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal was established in 1977 by the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act (No. 2) 1976. 
The Special Broadcasting Service was established in 1978 by the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act 1 977. 
A Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office was established under the Chairmanship of  Sir James  Vernon in 1973. The terms of reference of that inquiry required that the Royal Commission report on telecommunications services, including overseas services, the responsibilities of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, and the division of functions between that Commission and the then Postmaster-General's Department. The report of the Commission of Inquiry was tabled in Parliament on 23 July 1974. In accordance with recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission were established and commenced operations on 1 July 1 975. 
While the Authorities are subject to and have been involved in a range of Government and Parliamentary reviews and inquiries, there has not been a specific review or inquiry into these Authorities since the 1 973 Royal Commission. 
The most recent review of inquiry into the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) was in September 1977 by the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations  (Chairman Senator Rae)  in its continuing scrutiny of finance administration and accountability of Commonwealth Statutory Authorities and bodies owned or controlled by the Commonwealth. A progress report on this inquiry was presented on 14 September 1977. The Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts inquiry into the Maintenance of Levels of Employment for Musicians by the ABC was conducted in 1976 and 1977 and the Report was tabled in the Senate in June 1 977. 
No inquiries have been conducted in respect of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal or the Special Broadcasting Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. In the Sydney metropolitan area, approximately 30 per cent of an average trading day's mail is posted after 4 p.m. 
Approximately half of the mail posted in Sydney after 4 p.m. is lodged at suburban post offices. Local and regional mail is extracted and processed at these post offices and the balance of the mail is despatched to the Sydney Central Mail Exchange for sorting. The remainder of the mail posted in Sydney after 4 p.m. is lodged at city post offices, street posting boxes and at the Central Mail Exchange. Such mail is sorted at the Central Mail Exchange. 
and (4) Since it is not possible to process all mail at the point of posting, no comparative cost estimates are available. 
5 ) The present mail network scheme provides broadly for the following delivery schedule for mail posted in the Sydney metropolitan area after 4 p.m.: 
Within the Sydney metropolitan area 
Standard articles and parcels lodged at post office counters by S p.m. and standard articles lodged in posting boxes up to between 6.30 p.m. and 8.30 p.m., according to the collection time shown on the box, receive next working day delivery. 
Non-standard articles receive delivery by the second working day after posting. To New South Wales country areas 
Standard articles, non-standard articles and parcels would generally receive delivery by the second working day after posting. (Note- The Overnight Parcels Service provides next working day delivery for parcels addressed to Canberra, Newcastle, Wollongong and Bathurst, lodged at post offices up to 5 p.m.) 
Some distant country areas receive delivery on the third day after posting. 
Interstate- Capital Cities 
Standard articles, other enveloped mail and airmail items would generally receive delivery by the second working day after posting. 
Other non-standard articles and surface rate parcels for delivery in adjoining States would generally receive delivery on the third day after posting. Delivery in other States would be four/six days after posting, depending upon distance involved and transportation time-tables. 
Other Places 
Delivery times are dependent on location. Generally delivery would be effected one day after the times indicated for Capital Cities. 
See pan (3). 
It is already the practice of Australia Post, however, to roster staff until 6 p.m., or later, in order to complete the preliminary processing of mail for local delivery and despatch of the remainder to the Central Mail Exchange. 
(a) Some 2,900 non-official post offices throughout Australia are open on Saturday mornings. 
Official post offices have been closed on Saturdays since February 1974, following claims by Staff Organisations for a five day working week for their members. At that time, about one third of all official post offices were already closed, or were observing reduced hours, on Saturdays because of the low level of business then conducted. As no acceptable alternative rostering arrangement could be made to allow for Saturday to be classed as a normal working day, counter services at all official post offices were withdrawn, except at the Sydney GPO. 
Given the low level of demand for services and the high order of costs involved, it would not be envisaged that any attempt would be made to open official post offices on Saturday mornings. 
The inner city areas of all State capital cities, Canberra, and Newcastle still receive two mail deliveries each weekday. Moreover, mail addressed to GPO private boxes is sorted into the boxes as it is received at the GPOs concerned: also at other post offices where mail for delivery is received more than once daily prior to 2 p.m., private box mail is extracted and sorted progressively into private boxes. 
The general change to one delivery each weekday was made in 1969. This arrangement was introduced to reduce labour costs and to eliminate the excessively long span of hours which postmen had been required to work to provide two deliveries each weekday. At that time, it had been determined that the bulk of the mail was being delivered on the first delivery, with the second delivery catering for only a very small amount of mail. 
As cost and staffing constraints similar to those associated with Saturday opening of official post offices would apply, it is not proposed to re-introduce twice daily mail deliveries where they are not currently provided. 
Travel to and from Places of Employment (Question No. 1657) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The cost of establishing the Brisbane Common User Data Network (CUDN) centre, including development costs, was $ 1.1m. 
Two subscribers used CUDN in Queensland, TAA and the Department of Health. 
Both subscribers used CUDN as a national network, and agreements with Telecom on payment for the facility were calculated on a national basis. There was no identification of the cost to the subscribers of the use of the Queensland facility. 
TAA has now centred its national operation on the Melbourne CUDN centre, which provides the connection to its reservations computer also located in Melbourne, while the Department of Health terminals in Queensland are now connected via private lines to the Sydney CUDN centre. The 
Department of Health will operate their own computer system using Telecom leased lines early in 1979. As a result, the Brisbane CUDN centre has been closed down. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The first of five Common User Data Network (CUDN) operational centres was placed in service in Brisbane on 4 December 1972. Subsequently CUDN centres were introduced in the other mainland capitals, the last centre, Penh, being placed in service on 25 August 1975, at which date the network was fully national. 
The cost of establishing the network, including development costs, was $ 16.8m. 
The network was introduced to meet a demand by large Government Departments and business customers to transmit data between their own computers and remote terminals on sub-networks derived from common switching and transmission plant provided by Telecom. In providing these facilities CUDN appeared as a secure private network for each customer. 
The Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth CUDN centres have been closed down. However, the Melbourne and Sydney centres will continue to provide service to TAA and to the Department of Health. The equipment is working satisfactorily and will continue in service while these customers require it. 
Progressive reductions in the price of leased lines as a result of improved technology in the trunk network, and rapid development in mini computers, have been the principal factors in the limited life of CUDN 
There were two subscribers, TAA and the Department of Health. Difficulties experienced by the Contractors resulted in significant delays in commissioning. In this period, a number of potential users made other arrangements as described in (4) above. 
Movement between Papua and Torres Strait Islands (Question No. 1747) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 1972. (House of Representatives  Hansard,2  September 1978, page 1338). 
As the honourable member will know, the profits of Telecom Australia are quite essential for the improvement and extension of Telecom's services throughout Australia. I am delighted to be able to say to the House that the reduction in long distance and subscriber trunk dialling rates, which were announced to apply from November but which were threatened by the recent industrial action as a result of which Telecom lost $20m, will go ahead. Those reductions to apply from late November will be worth about $30m annually to the Australian people. At the same time Telecom is examining the question of access to service or community centres on a local call basis with a view to providing the best possible local call access for all people throughout Australia. This is an important study and is one which is being undertaken urgently by Telecom. I will emphasise the remarks made by the honourable member for Hume. It will take some months to complete that study but, nevertheless, the urgency is emphasised. 
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal is an independent statutory authority and is charged under the Broadcasting and Television Act with the responsibility to conduct public hearings into licence grants and renewal applications.Under the Act the conduct of public hearings is entirely a matter for the Tribunal. The Minister has no power to intervene in or to direct the Tribunal as to the conduct of a public hearing. I certainly would not wish to comment on any matter which is presently the subject of an inquiry by the Tribunal. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Nurse Education and Training to the Tertiary Education Commission entitled 'Nurse Education and Training', together with a statement by the Minister for Education. 
I can understand the concern expressed by regional television stations about some of the recommendations in the report of the task force. I would emphasise that no government decisions have been made with respect to that report in relation to a domestic communications satellite for Australia. Because of the importance of these subjects the Government has made them a matter for public debate and public comment and has allowed a period until the end of this year for formal submissions to be made to the Government on issues arising out of the report. I understand that copies of the report are unavailable as they have been sold out due to the rush for them. In that event I believe that it is appropriate that some extra time be sought and I will consider whether some extra time could be allowed for formal public submissions to the Government on these very important matters. I emphasise that if the Government finally decides to go ahead with this, it will be anxious in the months and years ahead to maintain communication with all people interested in and affected by important decisions like this. 
As to the question of the possible conversion of part of our remote area television programs to Intelsat by way of leasing Intelsat facilities in respect of certain repeater and translator stations, I can inform the honourable member that technical tests are under way. I will be visiting Moree on Friday of next week to witness some tests of the transmission to see whether it will be possible to consider converting part of our remote program to Intelsat facilities. This is an exciting possibility but it must be technically feasible if it is to be considered by the Government. I emphasise again that no decisions have been made although technical tests are well under way. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides grants for 1979 to the States through Commonwealth specific purpose payments in respect of government and nongovernment schools. In addition, the real level of 1978 funding, provided through Schools Commission programs, is maintained by adjusting recurrent grants for increases in salaries and wages which have occurred throughout the present grants period. On 17 October, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  announced that the Government had accepted the recommendations contained in the report of the Schools Commission for 1979. The report had been prepared pursuant to the guidelines to the Schools Commission for the 1979-81 triennium which the Minister for Education announced in the Parliament on 9 June 1978. The approved cost of the 1979 programs, in estimated December 1977 prices, is $63 1.6m. 
In the Bill, provision is made for the continuation in 1 979 of the programs that have operated under the present legislation for both government and non-government schools. The general resources programs are general recurrent grants, including short term, emergency assistance for non-government schools catering for country children, and building and equipment grants. The specific purpose programs are for child migrant education, disadvantaged schools and students in disadvantaged country areas, special education for handicapped children including children living in institutions, services and development and special projects. 
The conditions applying to short term, emergency assistance grants to non-government schools catering for students from the country have been modified in the Bill. In 1979 systemic schools will be eligible for assistance. In addition, grants may be made where a school catering for country students finds itself in an emergency situation for reasons not directly related to those enrolments. These changes will allow more adequate consideration to be given to the situation of such schools facing temporary difficulties. 
Until now the child migrant education program has operated as a part of the general recurrent grants program. From 1979 it will be a separate program and the main purpose of the program, namely the teaching of English as a second language, is emphasised in this Bill. The Bill provides for the introduction of the new multicultural education program in 1979. Both government and non-government schools will benefit from the program which, in 1979, will focus on the teaching of community languages. The two new schemes for the encouragement of school-level evaluation projects and for the promotion of choice within government schools are to be administered as sub-programs of the special projects program. The adjusted grants of $205,500 for each scheme are incorporated within the overall allocation of $3,908,000 for the special projects program. 
Details of the 1979 allocations for individual programs and States are given in Schedules 1 to 9 of the Bill. The grants specified in these schedules have been adjusted to June 1978 prices, except for the non-government schools general recurrent program which includes some allowance for estimated future cost increases. After these adjustments the estimated cost of the 1979 programs is $662. 3m. The grants for 1979 will be further adjusted in subsequent legislation for cost movements to the end of 1 978 and for increases in the salaries and wages components of recurrent grants during 1979. The Bill also adjusts the salary and wages components of recurrent grants for 1978 from December 1977 prices to June 1978 prices. In accordance with established practice, the non-government schools general recurrent program also includes final provision for cost increases to the end of 1978. The additional cost of these adjustments is $8. 7m. Amending legislation will be introduced in the 1979 autumn sittings of the Parliament to finalise the adjustment of 1978 grants. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
Time and the Whip will not allow me to spend the time I would like to spend on answering all the questions raised by honourable members in this debate. I say at the outset of these brief remarks that I am grateful to honourable members for what have been in all cases helpful remarks made in the course of this estimates debate. I will consider all the remarks that have been made and just single out a few for particular mention here tonight. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  on the whole, I think, had his points dealt with across the table by way of friendly interjection when he spoke the other night. So I will not take any more time with them. 
The honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  spoke of the importance of telecommunications to a State such as Western Australia. That is absolutely undenied. Developments in the telecommunications field, culminating recently in a new building to house up to $185mworth of important equipment, underline the commitment of Telecom Australia to the development of telecommunications services and all that they can mean in the thriving community of Western Australia. The honourable member for Perth raised also a question about whether what are called 'X' rated or, to put in another way, censored 'R' films should be shown on television at night when children might be watching it. It is true that, in developing a new series of program categories for television companies, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal suggested in its recent report that censored or cut 'R' films could be shown in a category called the 'X' category after 10 o'clock at night. It also made a number of other recommendations. The Government in recent days has asked the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to review its decision about showing 'X ' movies after 10 o'clock at night. 
The  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has indicated to me that he will be happy for the Tribunal to have another look at that matter and to take into account the sorts of views which were expressed by the honourable member for Perth and which have been expressed by many other people in the community who feel that there is a need for television stations to be aware of the fact that television shows are being seen by children, sometimes with and sometimes without parental supervision, and that whilst one might wish in an ideal world that parents could be left entirely free to decide on their own children's viewing habits, in the real world there is a social responsibility on government and, therefore, on broadcasters to take decisions about when, for instance and in particular, violent material can be shown on television when children might be viewing it. 
The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  mentioned the Eyre Peninsula. I was delighted that he said that I would receive a warm welcome in the Eyre Peninsula when I was able to deliver the goods. I have had a very warm invitation extended to me by  Senator Jessop  who also has taken a great interest in matters related to television in the Eyre Peninsula. We take those matters seriously and I say quite clearly to the honourable member and to the Committee that the future provision of television in the Eyre Peninsula is not back in the melting pot, as he feared it might be. I make it absolutely clear that the Eyre Peninsula is included in the three-year program. The task force report will not affect this. The task force report in no way will affect the three-year program. The task force report is a very important report, but it is looking at the possible provision of domestic communications in Australia by our own satellite a number of years ahead. It would be the mid-1980s before one could see any sort of action, even granted that the Government made fairly early decisions on that task force report. 
We are at the moment in the middle of a quite interesting and indeed exciting consideration of the possibilities of leasing Intelsat facilities for part of this so-called remote area program. I am sure that all honourable members, including those opposite who have raised these matters today, will agree that, if it is possible within that program to provide, through leasing international satellite facilities, the sort of immediate television which can be provided that way, it is a better option than simply to proceed with repeaters and translators, as originally promised. So we are looking at whether we cannot do even better than we promised at the last election. Far from backing off from our promise, it is my hope, if technical tests make it possible, that we will be able to provide an infinitely better national television service in these remote areas of Australia, which, I certainly admit, we promised to do in the last election campaign. We are hoping to do as we did with regard to reductions in long distance telephone rates, where we exceeded the promise that we made at the last election- an almost unbelievable circumstance. We hope that in this area too we will be able to do a little better than we promised. 
The honourable member for Grey has drawn attention also to the very important matter of the telecasting throughout Australia of major sporting events. Traditionally, of course, the Australian Broadcasting Commission carried these sorts of events to the far corners of Australia where television existed. It is a fact of life that in recent years sport and the televising of sport have become a very commercial business. Those involved in the development of sport are looking to commercial sponsorship and naturally have an interest in it. This means that the commercial television stations in some cases are managing to get the contracts for the televising of major sporting events. Whilst I well understand that process, I believe that it is important for television interests in this country- both commercial and national television interests- to work together so that, if for instance the commercial stations get the right to televise a major sporting event and cannot cover the whole of Australia with their television stations, there should be discussions and arrangements with the national service for the provision of television in areas where the commercial stations will not reach. If it is the other way round and there are areas where the national service is not reaching but the commercials are interested, I would hope that they likewise would be able to come to some arrangement. These decisions are for commercial and independent bodies to make, but I believe that there is a community interest in the great sporting events of this country and some of those on the international scene which we traditionally enjoy watching being carried throughout the length and breadth of Australia. 
The honourable member raised also with me the question of the Government's commitment to the provision of improved conditions where individuals have to erect private telephone lines or what are called part-privately erected lines. I say quite simply that discussions with Telecom are well advanced with regard to manual exchanges which are not due for conversion within two years and where Telecom provides eight kilometres of free line to subscribers. The discussions are well under way to see whether this provision cannot be extended in the way that we extended our commitment in the case of automatic exchange telephone lines or those due for a conversion to automatic exchange. That provision was extended recently from 12 kilometres to 16 kilometres. The matter is under very close study. I have had a number of discussions with Telecom and it will be receiving a report on this matter at its next meeting. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  discussed a number of things. He raised the question of Australian Broadcasting Commission staff ceilings. I make it quite clear to the Committee that I understand the concern of the ABC about the difficulties which it faces because of the projected staff ceilings which were advised by officials to the ABC recently. I can see that there would be difficulties if those ceilings were adopted as a matter of government POliCy. I agreed that there would be a review of ABC staff ceilings to begin at the end of September. This review is under way. I have the matter under discussion with officials and with the Government. I am not yet ready to announce the result of those discussions. I certainly accept the proposition that if those new ceilings were imposed, the ABC would be faced with very real difficulties in the provision of basic services within its charter. The honourable member for Bowman also raised the question of whether we can look at providing some temporary membership for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. I will consider that matter. He made the point that at public hearings for licence applications or licence renewals there should be more than one member of the Tribunal in attendance. Certainly with respect to major inquiries, that is a fair comment and is accepted by the Tribunal. 
The honourable member also raised the question of citizen band radio. CB radio has been a source of constant administrative difficulty to the Government oyer some time. It is obviously fair to say that CB radio is also a source of oral graffiti to many people who use it. I suggest that the great majority of users of CB radio wish to use it and do use it legally. At the moment, we are looking at a number of measures. I made recent statements about those measures which are designed to introduce more order into the arrangements relating to CB radio and to provide, therefore, less anarchy. I might isolate just a couple of matters. We are looking at the control of the importing of sets which are illegal to operate within Australia. It seems to be quite unfair to allow importers to import, sellers to sell and buyers to buy equipment which it is not lawful to operate in the interests of the proper management of the radio frequency spectrum in Australia. We are well advanced in discussions for ultimately drawing up regulations to prevent those sorts of imports. 
We are looking also at the question of sale. We will be providing for a licence to cover five sets which seems to be more sensible administratively and fairer to the consumer than the previous position where it was necessary to have a $25 licence per set. We are also looking at the question of licensing at the point of sale. I am interested in getting comments from interested members of the community and the Parliament about this matter because it seems to me that there might be a great deal to be said for providing for licensing at the point of sale in order that the many people who have been able to escape licensing will find it rather more difficult to escape. We are still in the process of appointing a number of new inspectors, again to aid in the management of this important new area of community life. I believe that this will help also. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  suggested that in the Budget we have neglected rural people. He is normally a very generous fellow. I think that he was a little ungenerous there because certainly in the areas of Australia Post and Telecom a great deal has been done to improve the provision of services in rural areas throughout Australia. Of course, I instance this exciting new program under which the Government is committed to a three-year program for the provision of television for the first time in the most remote areas of Australia. The program will cost over $8m. It is, I think, an indication, among a number of other things, of the Government's seriousness about improving services for country people. No one denies that in many pans of Australia country people are underprivileged in terms of communication services. It is true that I was sent a letter by the honourable member in May. I have indicated to him that we are not fobbing him ofT and we are not backing off from the commitment. The reason I am not yet ready to announce final details and timing is precisely because we are looking at the possibility of using this leased INTELSAT facility to provide better television, maybe even in some pans of his electorate. 
I had a delightful meeting with the honourable member and his friends from his electorate about the Anabranch- Wentworth issue. This is being examined as part of the Commission's study to improve local call access zones. The honourable member also raised the question, I think, fairly, of the $500 option instead of facing a capital cost where subscribers have to pay part of the cost of the installation of telephone lines. I make it quite clear that the $500 is an alternative to a capital cost. It is not a question as to whether it will come off the principal. I would have thought that it would be quite unfair, when a person has paid what would amount to the full capital cost and maybe a little interest, for that person to go on paying again and again. I am sure that Telecom would understand that point. 
Finally, the honourable member for Calare  (Mr Mackenzie)  raised the very vexed question of overcharging. The problem in this area is that we are looking at the issue after the horse has bolted and after the overcharging has occurred. The position we face is that there is no way a subscriber can necessarily convince Telecom that his case is right because obviously the subscriber, with the best will in the world, has difficulties in obtaining proof. Equally, it is very difficult and perhaps it may be said in some cases there is no way that Telecom can convince a subscriber that it is right. That is why Telecom has been looking at new alternatives. That is why the question of automatic message accounting is under consideration. I will ask Telecom to produce a full report on the possible introduction of automatic message accounting in Australia. We want to know all the arguments. We want to know the costs before any decisions are made by Telecom. I certainly will ask Telecom, when it possibly can, to produce a full report on its introduction. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Attorney-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $78,604,000. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Independent Schools (Loans Guarantee) Act 1 969 I present a statement of the payments made in 1977-78 in respect of all guarantees given under this Act. 
For the information of honourable members I present a discussion paper by the Schools Commission entitled  Some Aspects of School Finance in Australia,  together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education. 
I will approach the Tribunal about the detailed questions which have been raised by the honourable member. As to the last part, no decisions have been made about when new applications might be called. I will have a look at it and give the honourable member an answer to that question also. 
-The Australian Postal Commission has agreed to build a new post office in Canberra City and funds will be available for that purpose. There remain only the questions of precisely how that is to be done and whether it should be a single purpose building which would house only post office facilities or whether in accordance with some local wishes there should be a multi-purpose use of the site. I understand that discussions are under way at the moment with a view to resolving those questions. Quite definitely, there will be a new post office in Canberra City. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 2090  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States  (Question No. 2103) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although the great majority of Australians have a television service, it would be impracticable to define 10 or 15 regions where reception is of the poorest quality or nonexistent as these areas are located primarily in isolated rural or outback areas where population is relatively small and scattered. 
The Government is actively pursuing a policy of extending the national service to as many of those still without a service as possible. Some $3.9m has been allocated in the Budget for this purpose, as the first stage of a three year extension program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Apart from the right to refer a complaint to the Commonwealth Ombudsman, there is no specific provision for referring a disputed account to a tribunal or court for determination. If Telecom commences legal proceedings to recover the amount in dispute, the other party can contest the matter as in any civil suit for the recovery of a debt alleged to be due and owing. 
Telecom can disconnect a telephone service and institute legal proceedings for the recovery of the moneys said to be owing. These are, however, actions of 'last resort' after a detailed examination of the subscriber's past calling pattern, technical tests of equipment which might cause incorrect metering, and failure to reach a settlement acceptable to both parties through negotiations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The areas within the Electoral Division of Lalor which have no street postal deliveries or collections are as follows: 
Altona North- the area bounded by Princes Highway, Dohertys Road, Kororoit Creek and the MelbourneGeelong railway line. 
Laverton North-the area bounded by Princes Highway, Little Boundary Road, Boundary Road and Fitzgerald Road. 
Laverton West- the area bounded by Forsyth Road, Old Geelong Road, Skeleton Creek and the MMBW outfall sewer reserve. 
Sunshine North-the area bounded by Mclntyre Road, Ayton Street, Burwood Avenue, Munro Avenue, Vermont Avenue and Railway Road. 
Little River- a small rural community which is located at the southern end of the electorate. 
Australia Post keeps under constant review any area which it considers could, as a result of further industrial or residential development, require mail delivery services and the installation of posting boxes. 
At this stage, only a few firms and residences are located in those industrial areas of the Electoral Division of Lalor which do not currently have mail deliveries or posting box facilities. In some of these areas, roads are unsealed and in a poor condition and, in addition, many of the business premises are storage or holding facilities only. 
Mail is available, however, through counter service facilities and/or private boxes at post offices in more closely settled areas of the surrounding districts, and, in some cases, through roadside mail boxes. Also, mail may be posted at the post offices and in any of the eighty-eight posting boxes which are located throughout the Electorate. 
Because the benefits from the provision of street mail delivery services and posting box facilities in the specific areas mentioned would be shared by only a few firms and residents, and because of the relatively high costs of providing the additional facilities, Australia Post could not justify the implementation of such services at this time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The ABC keeps me informed about major decisions but such decisions are strictly matters for the Commission. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Approximately $ 1 25,000. 
418. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
GPO. 
The Sydney and Melbourne inner telephone charging zone areas embrace all telephone exchanges located within the radial distance of 24 km of the GPO while the outer zones embrace exchanges located within the radial distances of between 24 km and about 40 km of the GPO. 
In the case of Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth, the radial distance ofthe inner zone area is 16 km and, for the outer zone area the radial distances are 16 km and 32 km. 
If the radii of the inner and outer zones were extended to form circles the approximate percentages of the respective areas over (i) land and (ii) water would be: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2090. (House of Representatives  Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Pursuant to section 102 of the Postal Services Act 1975 I present the report of the Australian Postal Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth Government has no fixed arrangements or guidelines for the funding of such schools, assuming that the ethnic schools referred to are those parttime schools and classes organised out of normal school hours which are established by ethnic communities to allow the teaching of the traditional language and culture of the community. (There are a small number of full-time schools supported by particular ethnic communities which follow the normal curriculum and which the Government recognises, for funding and other purposes, as non-government schools). 
and (3) I understand that Federations of Ethnic Schools have been established in New South Wales and South Australia, and that discussions on the possibility of forming similar Federations are being discussed in some other States as well. I am not aware of any intention to establish such a body at the Federal level. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall the substantial changes made to the administrative structure of broadcasting in the amendments of 1977 to the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. The amendments effected those recommendations of the report of the inquiry into the Australian broadcasting system- the Green Reportdecided upon by the Government One of the principal changes was the transfer of the power to grant and renew licences for broadcasting and television stations from the Minister to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. In addition, the new legislation specified for the first time periods or time for the lodgment of applications for licence grants and renewals and subsequent documents relating to licence grants and renewals. As a result of the calling of applications for the grant of the first series of public broadcasting licences, it became evident that greater flexibility of procedural arrangements for the lodging of licence grant applications and other related documents with the Tribunal would be desirable. Obviously, the same flexibility should apply in the procedures for the renewal of licences. 
This Bill seeks to provide that flexibility. Specifically, the Bill seeks to amend section 82 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 to allow the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, where it is satisfied circumstances warrant it, to grant time extensions for the lodging of applications for, and submissions and replies in relation to, the grant of a licence. It is expected that in exercising this discretion, the Tribunal will ensure that there is substantial compliance with the Act. In addition, this Bill seeks to validate those applications and associated documents lodged in pursuance of invitations for the grant of public broadcasting licences published in issues of the  Gazette  of 74 April, 15 May and 13 June 1978, and those public broadcasting licences granted to persons applying for the grant of the licences not later than 5 July 1 978, where the requirements of sections 82, 83 and 84 of the Broadcasting and Television Act were not observed. It is also proposed through this Bill to amend section 86 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 to direct applications for the renewal of licences to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal rather than to the Minister, as is now the case. A similar amendment is incorporated to make consequential changes to section 33 of the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act 1977, which contains the transitional provisions for licence renewals. 
At the time of the major amendments to the licensing provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act during last year, it was felt that the Minister should continue to receive licence renewal applications as he had in the past. It was felt that this procedure would enable the Minister to make an input into the renewal process from the viewpoint of his planning responsibilities. However, it has now become clear that it is more desirable that applications for renewal be lodged with the Tribunal. The Minister will be able under section 106B of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 to seek information from the Tribunal concerning renewal applications where necessary for planning purposes. The Tribunal will also have the power to grant extensions, of time to applicants and other interested persons making applications or submissions concerning licence renewals. Further, it is felt that licensees should have an avenue of appeal where the Tribunal refuses to grant extensions of time for the lodging of licence renewal applications, or of licensees' replies to submissions made in relation to renewals. An amendment is therefore proposed to section 1 19A of the principal Act to provide that licensees in this position may apply to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for a review of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's decision. A consequential amendment to the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act 1977 is also proposed in this regard. 
These amendments will provide consistency between licence grant and renewal procedures, and will add to the 'depoliticising' of the administrative structure of broadcasting in Australia as effected in the major amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act in 1977. I commend this BUI to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is part of the Government's program for the future well-being of the inhabitants of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. The Bill will allow the Cocos (Keeling) Islands to establish its own postal and philatelic services similar to those conducted by Norfolk Island and Christmas Island. The Cocos (Keeling) Islands will obtain revenue from these operations, primarily from philatelic sales, and the revenue so derived will be retained on the Islands for the welfare of the inhabitants. It is proposed that this Act should take effect on a date to be fixed by proclamation which will be the date when the ordinance establishing the postal service takes effect. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to provide financial assistance to the States for universities, colleges of advanced education, and technical and further education. It will be recalled that the guidelines for assistance to tertiary education in the 1 979-8 1 triennium provided for the introduction of fixed recurrent funding for the triennium. This Bill provides grants for the three sectors for 1979 and recurrent grants for the university sector for 1 980 and 1981. Recurrent grants for 1980 and 1981 for advanced education and technical and further education will be provided by legislative amendment in the 1979 autumn sittings after the Government has considered supplementary advice from the Tertiary Education Commission, in relation to advanced education, and the report of the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training in relation to Technical and Further Education. 
The amounts provided for each of the three tertiary education sectors for 1979 are as follows: 

<graphic href="112131197811150_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

Recurrent grants totalling $59 lm have also been provided for universities in respect of 1980 and 1981. Recurrent grants to each State for advanced education in respect of those years were set out in the statement of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to the Senate on 19 October 1978. The amounts provided are based upon the programs of the Tertiary Education Commission for the 1979-81 triennium which the Minister for Education announced to the Senate on 19 October 1978. The amount provided for technical and further education includes the first component of the additional $50m for capital works in that sector which was announced in the Government's 'Guidelines for the Education Commissions, 1979-81 Triennium'. The announced programs were in December 1977 cost levels. They have been adjusted for cost movements to June 1978. The Bill provides amounts for institutions in lieu of assistance previously provided by the Commonwealth through fees assistance and other grants. These amounts, which are in addition to the guideline programs, are payable to the National Institute of Dramatic Art and to a number of universities in respect of professionally oriented law courses. It does not include approved grants for institutions which are funded from within the tertiary programs through the annual Appropriation Acts. 
As announced in the Senate on 19 October 1978 a shortfall in expenditure of the 1978 capital program will enable additional university and college of advanced education capital projects to commence in the second half of 1979. These projects will be added to the legislation in the 1979 autumn sittings when the savings have been realised. The grants will be adjusted in subsequent legislation for cost movements in accordance with the Government's guidelines for the 1979-81 triennium. The Bill also modifies certain conditions relating to grants to provide additional flexibility in the expenditure of these grants. These changes are designed to assist the institutions to utilise the grants as effectively as possible. The modifications do not reduce the States ' responsibilities to account for their expenditure of the grants. 
In addition to appropriating grants for the 1979-81 triennium, the Bill amends the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Act 1 977 to supplement approved 1978 grants for cost increases between December 1977 and June 1978. The additional funds provided for cost supplementation are $6.8m for universities, $3. 4m for colleges, and $lm for technical and further education. It also amends the States Grants (Advanced Education Assistance) Act 1976 to allow for the transfer of $782,000 between capital and recurrent programs for Queensland in 1977 to enable colleges of advanced education in that State to meet unavoidable increases in superannuation contributions. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Live-stock Export Charge Amendment Bill and the Livestock Diseases Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the three Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Government decided that the staff elected commissioner position would not be continued and that is clear and plain. A number of matters have been raised by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the most important of which is the question of staff ceilings and their impact upon the ABC. These matters are being looked at sympathetically by the Government. As for the industrial action which is under way, the ABC management is taking those decisions which it must take when faced with the refusal of members of staff to fulfil their normal duties- duties which are undertaken under an Act of Parliament. The ABC management, of course, has the full support of government in taking those appropriate actions. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1), (2) and (3) The matters raised by the honourable member's question are the concern of the Western Australian Post-Secondary Education Commission. The Commonwealth has no information of the type sought as the responsibility for the arrangements made and the decisions reached rest with the State. 
In accordance with approved arrangements for consideration of new teaching activities and courses in universities and colleges of advanced education, the Tertiary Education Commission considered a number of proposals placed before it in relation to Western Australian institutions. 
The Western Australian Post-Secondary Education Commission submitted four course proposals for approval for introduction in 1979, as follows: 
Western Australian Secondary Teachers College: Associate Diploma in Arts/ Applied Science 
Western Australian Institute of Technology: Associate Diploma in Engineering; Masters Degree in Metallurgy; Masters Degree in Health Science. 
The three proposals at the Western Australian Institute of Technology were approved. The Associate Diploma in Arts/Applied Science at the Western Australian Secondary Teachers College was not approved. The Tertiary Education Commission felt that as this proposal had significant implications for the future development of teacher education institutions no decision should be made which might pre-empt a comprehensive consideration of appropriate developments. 
In addition, Murdoch University has submitted to the Tertiary Education Commission for approval a proposed new teaching activity in linguistics to begin in 1980. This submission is currently being considered. Also, the University of Western Australia proposes in 1 979 to extend its existing law course to include a diploma of legal practice as an alternative to articles of clerkship. As this diploma would be an extension of existing studies rather than a new development, the Commission's agreement was not required. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Number of Medical Graduates Produced by Each Medical School, 1974-1978 (a): 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two stamps were issued on 2 February 1977, one being of 18 cents denomination, featuring Her Majesty the Queen, and the other being of 45 cents denomination, featuring the Queen and Prince Phillip. 
There were 25 million 18 cent stamps and 5 million 45 cent stamps printed and issued to post offices and philatelic sales centres. 
The stamps were available for approximately eight weeks at post offices and for a total of 12 months at philatelic sales centres. 
Under present policy the Queen's portrait would not be available permanently on postage stamps in the future, although there will, of course, continue to be occasions, similar to the Silver Jubilee in 1977, when it could be most appropriate to issue stamps featuring the Queen or other members of royalty. 
Because Australia Post is keen to feature on its postage stamps, subjects which have a high appeal among the public, an Australia-wide survey of public opinion regarding stamp designs and subjects was carried out in 1975. The subjects which proved to be most popular were Australian flora, fauna, scenes and historical events. Only 4 per cent of people interviewed were interested in seeing royalty depicted on Australian postage stamps. 
Australia Post plans to continue to issue stamps featuring subjects which the public has indicated that it would most like to see. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sub-section 13(1) of the Telecommunications Act 1975 provides that the Commission may authorise the attachment of a line, equipment or apparatus to a telecommunications system. Sub-section 13(2) provides that the Commission may specify in an authorisation issued under sub-section ( 1 ) the terms and conditions subject to which the authorisation is to operate. 
Paragraph (b) of sub-section 1 1 1 ( 1) of the Act enables the Commission to make by-laws with respect to the terms and conditions governing the provision to or use by any person of telecommunications services or facilities. The matter of approving what are known as permitted attachments is dealt with in Part XIV of the Telecommunications (General) By-laws. A person who wishes to supply apparatus for connection to a subscriber's service may make application to the Commission for type approval of the apparatus. He is required to submit the apparatus, together with detailed specifications, drawings and circuit diagrams for examination and testing by the Commission. If the apparatus meets the Commission's technical standards and is compatible with the telecommunications network, type approval of the apparatus is given to the supplier. Any subscriber who wishes to connect the apparatus to his service must also obtain permission from the Commission to do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telecom Australia advises that staff employed at 1 July 1975 (vesting day) comprised 88,690 full-time and 1,284 part-time staff. The corresponding figures at 1 July 1978 were 87,444 and 1,71 1 respectively. 
Salaries and wages are paid fortnightly but the average weekly payment was$ 1 3.5m in July 1 975 and $ 1 9.4m in July 1978. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) It is not possible to provide information in respect of payments to individual government schools except in relation to grants made under the Special Projects (Innovations) Program and the Disadvantaged Schools Program of the Schools Commission. The Commonwealth Government provides bulk funding to the Victorian Government for government schools programs to disburse on a needs basis as it sees fit. 
Funds for non-government schools in the electoral division of Lalor in the period in question have been made available under programs administered by the Department of Education and the Schools Commission. 
Programs administered by the Department of Education: Funds administered by the Department of Education were made available under the following acts: 
I met some commercial operators at a function the other night, and I offered the parliamentary broadcasts to them but did not get any takers. I am afraid that those factors which are relevant to commercial operations are not necessarily relevant to the broadcasting of the proceedings of the Parliament and, indeed, to many of the tasks undertaken by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the national interest. I will have a look at what the honourable member has said. Let me simply make it quite plain that the Government supports the position of the ABC management, that people who do not work as directed in their normal tasks will not be paid. The Government does not intend to back off from that position. The ABC management is, as I understand it, discussing at the moment with the Federal Executive of the Staff Association the possibility of entering into negotiations over issues that are relevant in the dispute but it has made it quite plain that it will do so only if all strike action is ceased and all bans lifted. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Postal and Telecommunications Department for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
Pursuant to section 53 of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946 I present the report and financial statements of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) for the year ended 3 1 March 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on progress in education since 1976. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The report  Australian Studies in School Performance- The Mastery of Literacy and Numeracy  was the first attempt at establishing a level of performance in basic literacy and numeracy for Australian children. The results do not show that the present programs are ineffective; nor are the results particularly surprising. Education systems have been aware of the needs of migrants and Aboriginal children for a long time and as far as the States are concerned, the responsibility for the education of all children within them is vested with State Education Departments; it is thus their primary responsibility to consider and react to the findings of the report. Any assistance the Commonwealth provides in this area is supplementary to that offered by the States. There are, however, measures which have been and are being taken to assist migrant and Aboriginal children which relate to the findings of the report: 
The Child Migrant Program began in 1970 and continued under various administrative arrangements until it became the responsibility of the Schools Commission in 1976. Since 1976 the Schools Commission, through its General Recurrent Grants Program has provided specific support for migrant and multicultural education. A recent addition to the general program has been the funds which will be made available to schools following the Government's acceptance of the Galbally report. $10m will be made available specifically for the teaching of English as a second language over three years. These measures will continue to provide assistance to meet the main problem area for migrants which was pointed out in the 'Literacy and Numeracy' Study- their limited exposure and opportunities to use the English language. 
(i) Similarly, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs makes funds available to State Education authorities each year to enable extension and improvement of Aboriginal education activities, including the teaching of basic skills. The results of the ACER study were discussed at the annual meeting of the State Superintendents of Aboriginal Education held in Brisbane in June 1978. This meeting was also attended by representatives of the Commonwealth Departments of Education and Aboriginal Affairs. Reservations were expressed concerning some aspects of the ACER study. The consensus view of the State officers was that numeracy, literacy and oracy for all students has always been accorded high priority in schools. The general view also was that in regard to Aboriginal students the situation is improving. This, of course, could not have been revealed in the ACER study. 
In the Northern Territory there has been a particular emphasis on the second language approach to learning English to ease the transition for Aboriginal students to learn English. New reading material has been prepared, and additional staff have been appointed specifically to supervise the development of Aboriginal reading. Also the bilingual education program, which is operating in some 18 schools in the Northern Territory, is designed to enable Aboriginals to develop linguistic competence. 
The findings of the study were available in the report of the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. The  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Mitchell, visited the States with  Mr S.  Dunn,  Chairman  of the Education Research Development Committee in mid 1977 and discussed the action that the States were taking in relation to the recommendations of the report. The States are taking steps to identify children with learning difficulties and to monitor standards within their own States. The Australian Education Council will also be examining strategies to adapt their systems to the needs of Aboriginals and migrants.  1978 Conference of Presiding Officers (Question No. 2077) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia Post does provide various agency services for Commonwealth Government Departments and Authorities, including, for example, Telecom Australia, the Commonwealth Savings Bank Departments of Social Security and Veterans' Affairs, the Australian Electoral Office and the Australian Taxation Office. Many of these agency services were provided by the former Postmaster-General's Department and others have been introduced more recently. 
Agency arrangements initiated by the then PostmasterGeneral's Department on behalf of the Health Insurance Commission were taken over by Australia Post in July 1975. Since then, Australia Post has provided at selected post offices, certain agency services, on behalf of the Health Insurance Commission, including the issue of Medibank application forms and claim forms. In addition since 31 January 1978 Australia Post has provided expanded agency services on behalf of the Health Insurance Commission at seven Tasmanian post offices. This arrangement has involved the acceptance of subscriptions to Medibank Private and the payment of routine medical claims for both Medibank Standard and Medibank Private. The post offices concerned are at Smithton, Ulverstone, Deloraine, Scottsdale, New Norfolk, Glenorchy and Kingston. 
Under section 12 of the Postal Services Act, Australia Post is authorised to enter into agreements to act as an agent for Federal and State Government Departments and Authorities. Australia Post provides already many agency services on behalf of State Government Departments and Authorities, including, for example, acceptance of payments for power, water and sewerage, rates and rents, and the sale of duty stamps. Although car registration and licensing activities are not among services currently provided, they are under consideration as potential areas for future agency work. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At 30 June 1978 the number of manual telephone services was 104,158. 
(a) By mid-1982; (b) By about 1987. 
I have asked the Australian Telecommunications Commission to provide a report on the implications of extending free line plant for subscribers to manual exchanges to 16 km and expect to receive that report very shortly. Once that paper has been studied I expect to be able to give further consideration to the issue raised by the honourable member. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are thirty-seven post offices in the Electoral Division of Sydney, twenty-eight of which are official offices and nine are non-official offices. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)I regret that it is impossible to give a definite reply to this question. I am aware of grants made by the Australia Council and the Australian Film Commission, as set out below. However, other government instrumentalities sometimes make grants for specific purposes, e.g. a grant of $25,000 was made in 1977 by the Management Committee for the Disadvantaged Country Area Program in the Western Region to construct and equip a public radio station located at Bourke High School. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments made by the former Postmaster-General's Department prior to 1975 and by Australia Post since then, to individual aircraft operators in the Northern Territory, for the carriage of mail during each year since 1962 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Areas within the Electoral Division of Kingston which do not have postal deliveries are as follows: 
Aldinga 
Aldinga Beach 
Aldinga Beach South 
Lonsdale 
McLaren Flat 
Maslins Beach 
Moana South 
Port Willunga 
Sellicks Beach 
SellicksHill 
Willunga South 
Areas within the Electoral Division of Kingston which do not have postal collections are as follows: 
Lonsdale 
SellicksHill 
Willunga South 
Australia Post keeps under constant review any area which it considers could, as a result of further development, require mail delivery services and/or the installation of posting boxes. 
Development in the Moana South area has reached the stage where the provision of a delivery service is justified. It is not practicable, however, for Australia Post to provide such a service at this stage, as many of the roads in the area are unmade and are not trafficable in all weather. A delivery service in the area would be provided if the standard of the roads were improved. 
A survey is currently being conducted in the areas of Port Willunga, Aldinga Beach, Aldinga Beach South and Sellicks Beach to determine whether mail delivery services are justified. If the survey indicates that development of the areas has reached the stage where mail delivery services are justified, their introduction would depend on the condition of the roads in each area. 
In the areas of Aldinga, McLaren Flat and Maslins Beach, mail delivery services could not be justified at this stage, nor could mail delivery services and posting box facilities in the areas of Sellicks Hill and Willunga South be justified at this stage, as there are insufficient householders in each area to justify the provision of such services. In addition, the provision of a mail delivery service and posting box facilities in the Lonsdale area could not be justified as the existing development is very scattered. 
For those areas where mail delivery services and posting box facilities are not justified at this stage, mail is available, however, through counter service facilities and/or private boxes at post offices in more closely settled areas of the surrounding districts, and, in some cases, through roadside mail boxes. Also, mail may be posted at the post offices and in any of the eighty-eight street posting boxes which are located throughout the Electorate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) I draw the honourable member's attention to the statement made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations on behalf of the Minister for Administrative Services, entitled 'Commonwealth Property: Payments to Fire Brigades'.  (Hansard  of 22 March 1 977, page  4  1 5 ). 
In that statement the Minister explained that payments are being made to the States to replace the telephone concessions previously provided to fire brigades as a contribution towards the cost of fire protection services for Commonwealth property. From 1976-77 payments are being based on a fixed percentage of each State 's operating expenditure on fire brigade services. This percentage is based on the ratio of total Commonwealth payments and telephone concessions for 1975-76 to total fire brigade operating expenditure that year, and is calculated separately for each State. The amounts paid are adjusted at the end of each financial year when actual expenditure is known. The States are responsible for allocating appropriate amounts to their fire brigades. The scheme is believed by the Government to be an equitable one. 
Custody of Royal Commission on Espionage Documents  (Question No.  1582) 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Data on the teaching of modern languages in Australian schools was obtained in a survey conducted by my Department in 1973. More recent comprehensive information is not available. It should be noted that, while all secondary schools were approached, responses were obtained from 74 per cent of them. Therefore the figures for secondary schools are a lower limit. Primary schools known to have a high proportion of students from a non-English-speaking background, and/or known to offer modern language courses, were fully enumerated; a one-in-ten sample was taken of the remaining primary schools throughout Australia. Of those primary schools approached, 88 per cent responded. Therefore, the figures for primary schools are more likely to be underestimated than overestimated, but sampling error could conceivably lead to overestimation. 
Data from the survey has been published in 'The Teaching of Modern Languages in Australian Schools, 1975 - Department of Education, Research Branch Report 3' (AGPS, Canberra, 1977). Data was reported in total for each State, and in total for Australia for government schools, for Catholic schools and for other non-government schools. The figures have not been distributed between the three school types within individual States, and it is not proposed to undertake any further analysis of the data at this stage. 
The information available from the survey is shown in Tables land 2. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the 12 month period ending 30 June 1978, 168,439 citizen radio service licences were issued. 
It is estimated that $3,980,000 was the amount of revenue received by the Government from citizen radio service licence fees during this period. 
As at 30 September 1978, 14,669 citizen radio service licences had been renewed. 
-I can assure the House that the Government's very proper policies of financial restraint in the difficult circumstances with which Australia is faced have not in any way amounted to a campaign of attrition against the Australian Broadcasting Commission, nor have they in any way amounted to an attempt to infringe the independence of the ABC. The ABC has understood that in difficult times it has been necessary for the ABC to take budgetary restraints, as have all other areas of government expenditure. It is true that the  Chairman  of the ABC has written to me recently indicating in clear terms certain problems which the ABC has faced. I can give the House an assurance that the Government is having a look at the matters which the  Chairman  has raised. 
-The answer to the honourable member's first two questions is: Yes. The increases are not insignificant. They relate roughly to the amount of inflation which has occurred since the last increases. I will discuss with the  Chairman  of Australia Post the matters raised by the honourable member and, indeed, by other honourable members. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) None. 
(i) Australian Postal Commission 3; (ii) Australian Telecommunications Commission 10. 
(i) Australian Postal Commission $50; (ii) Australian Telecommunications Commission $ 1 19. 10. 
(i) Australian Postal Commission $130.00; (ii) Australian Telecommunications Commission $ 1 ,269.67. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
School level- (a) I know of only a small number of schools run by Aboriginals. The Townsville Black Community School and the schools at Strelley and Nookanbah in Western Australia are all controlled by Aboriginal or Torres Strait Island groups. In most schools in Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory, which are my direct concern, Aboriginal teaching staff play a very significant part. The teaching programs in these schools are broadly similar to those offered m government schools in the States. Apart from these, schooling is now being provided at a number of socalled outstations, in the Northern Territory and in some of the States. 
and (c) The very large majority of Aboriginal students in primary and secondary schools throughout Australia follow programs which are designed to cater for all pupils enrolled. The emphasis which can be given to the special needs of Aboriginal students varies from school to school. Where Aboriginal students comprise a significant part of the school population, it is more common for them to have specially planned teaching programs, and for students to be able to receive additional instruction in practical skills of the type listed. In all schools, emphasis is placed on the need for Aboriginal students to become as proficient as possible in the basic skills of literacy and numeracy as a necessary prerequisite for work and further study. 
In Western Australia a number of project classes are operating at the upper primary and lower secondary levels. These classes aim to improve the practical skills of those students who have difficulty in succeeding with a more academically inclined curriculum. In the Northern Territory, schools at the larger Aboriginal communities have postprimary facilities where classes are conducted in a range of manual arts. 
Since 1970 the movement to re-occupy traditional lands has intensified and Government support has now aided large numbers of Aboriginals to establish independent settlements known as outstations. My Department has responded to the movement by making provision for educational services at these centres. In many instances the teaching is carried out by Aboriginal teacher assistants who have the benefit of periodic visits by more experienced staff. The location of these outstation schools in traditional settings affords opportunities for pupils to learn traditional knowledge by traditional means. Tune-tabling is flexible to cope with the lifestyles at these centres. 
In a number of other Northern Territory schools, timetables have been adjusted to suit the life-styles of Aboriginal people which are of course influenced by seasonal conditions. 
An important innovation in Aboriginal education in recent years has been the introduction of bilingual programs. The bilingual program in the Northern Territory now involves 19 schools in Aboriginal communities. Twelve different Aboriginal languages are used along with English in formal programs. In addition a number of schools use the local Aboriginal language in an informal way. At Maningrida, for example, the large number of languages spoken precludes a formal program in any one of them, but it is possible for some of the older children to be introduced to literacy in their own language. 
Bilingual programs with characteristics similar to those operating in the Northern Territory are now also operating in several Aboriginal communities in the States including the following: Kowanyama, Aurukun (Qld.), Ernabella, Fregon, Amata and indulkana (SA) and Warburton (WA). 
As in the Northern Territory, the local language is used extensively in outstation education wherever this development occurs. Use of the local language on a less structured basis occurs in other communities particularly Yalata (SA), Yandeyarra, Oombulgurri and Strelley (WA). 
The Government has actively encouraged the appointment of Aboriginals as teachers and teacher assistants in the Northern Territory. Twelve Aboriginals have now qualified for recognition as permanent teachers by the Commonwealth Teaching Service. A further nineteen have completed two years training to qualify for appointment of temporary teachers, and another group of 57 have completed part of their teacher training course. While the numbers are still not large, they represent a growing and significant involvement of the Aboriginal people in their education. The Roper River school is staffed by Aboriginals, including the first Aboriginal principal in the Northern Territory. In addition, some 300 teacher assistants are employed in Northern Territory schools. There are also some 400 Aboriginals employed in teaching positions in the States. Some SO of these are qualified teachers; the remainder hold positions as teacher assistants. 
Post-school level- It is not possible to provide a complete listing of courses available in the practical skills outlined in the question. AU technical colleges offer courses at a variety of levels, and numbers of Aboriginal students are enrolled. 
The Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme is a national scheme administered by my Department under which a wide range of special courses are arranged for Aboriginals who are no longer in a formal schooling situation. Many Aboriginal award holders undertake courses designed to improve their practical skills and employment prospects in the fields listed. 
and (3) In 1977, a total of 2,451 Aboriginals undertook courses with assistance from the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme. The large majority enrolled for courses directly related to practical and vocational skills. Of the 2,451 students, 1,067 were accommodated in courses specially arranged with the needs of Aboriginals in mind. 
The Aboriginal employment situation is a serious matter, and is one which is receiving priority attention from the Government In the teaching field, as outlined above, there are substantial programs which are providing employment opportunities for large numbers of Aboriginals. 
As part of an evaluation of the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme, my Department is currently seeking information from students on the extent to which assisted programs of study have been useful in helping them secure related employment The results of the evaluation should help in assessing the types of courses which should be encouraged. 
(a) Seven colleges of advanced education (Armidale, Canberra, Mt Gravatt, Mt Lawley, Newcastle, Townsville and Torrens) offer Aboriginal education studies in teacher training courses including studies at the graduate level. Mt Lawley CAE offers a Graduate Diploma in Aboriginal Studies for external students. For Commonwealth Teaching Service Scholarship holders in their pre-service training, specialised Aboriginal education subjects are provided by several colleges cf advanced education. These scholarship holders also nave the opportunity to undertake a six weeks practice teaching period m Northern Territory schools during their course of study. In addition, in-service courses are conducted each year for teachers in Northern Territory Aboriginal schools. The Queensland Department of Education provides opportunities for teachers to take the Graduate Diploma in Aboriginal Studies at Townsville CAE. 
I have referred in my answer to 1 (e) above to the efforts made by the Government to encourage the employment of Aboriginals in teaching positions. As evidence of the continued effort being made to increase the numbers of qualified Aboriginal teachers, there were in 1977 1 16 Aboriginal students enrolled in teacher training courses, supported under the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme. Since 1973, 39 Aboriginals have qualified as teachers with Scheme assistance, including four at the graduate level. 
Teacher training programs for Aboriginals in the Northern Territory are conducted by my Department and the Darwin Community College. As mentioned in my reply to 1 (e), growing numbers of Aboriginals are qualifying as teachers. 
No. Bilingual programs have been introduced to all Southern Region Aboriginal communities which satisfy certain criteria, one of which is a request from the community that such a program be commenced. 
Currently five Government schools conduct a bilingual program in the southern region and it is hoped to expand the program to Santa Teresa school in the near future. 
No teacher has been appointed specifically to teach in fringe camps at Alice Springs. I am not aware of a specific request for such a teacher. However, a teacher at Traeger Park Primary School does take one class for fringe camp children. 
For teachers new to the Northern Territory a short orientation course is provided at the beginning of each year followed by another at the end of first term. Teachers already in the Territory and going to an Aboriginal school for the first time are encouraged to attend these courses also. Principals of Aboriginal schools are required to provide an orientation course relevant to their respective communities for new teachers at the beginning of each year. The effectiveness of these arrangements is being constantly monitored. 
and (9) No constraints or career penalties are imposed. 
and (11) My Department is not aware of any such situation. It is very conscious of the need for adequate toilet provision. Problems do occur as a result of maltreatment. In most outstation situations no permanent buildings are either provided or requested. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) In 1976 the Committee on the Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools estimated that there were approximately 600 ethnic schools throughout Australia. Although no nationwide survey has been conducted since, recent estimates suggest that there are now well in excess of that number of schools. 
(a) and (b) All but a few of these ethnic schools take the form of part-time schools and classes organised out of normal school hours which are established by ethnic communities to allow the teaching of the traditional language and culture of the community. There are three regular day schools in New South Wales, following recognised school curricula which are attended by particular ethnic groups. These are Our Lady of Lebanon, Harris Park; St Maron's, Redfern; and the Sydney Japanese School. 
The Committee on the Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools estimated, in 1976, the total enrolment in ethnic schools as50,000. The current enrolment would be somewhat higher. 
The three regular day schools mentioned in (2) above, with a total enrolment of 700, receive Commonwealth funding through the Schools Commission's General Recurrent Grants Program. In addition there are ten Jewish schools with a total enrolment of 4,400 students which receive general recurrent grants. 
The governments of New South Wales and South Australia provide funds to ethnic schools in their States. The New South Wales government provided $100,000 in 1 977- 78 to assist ethnic schools and will provide $ 1 30,000 in 1978- 79. The South Australian government provided $59,892 in 1977-78 on the basis of a per capita grant of $12 per annum. It is anticipated that an amount of $80,000 could be provided in 1978-79. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The Budget estimates for 1978-79 for the Department of Education include the following specific allocations for Aboriginal education: 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Tertiary Education Commission commented on the medical manpower situation in Volume 1 of the Report for 1979-81 Triennium. The Commission noted that in the light of information currently available, there will almost certainly be a higher doctor/population ratio than had been previously predicted. Accordingly, the Commission considered that it would be difficult to justify any further expansion of medical education, and recommended that universities should not increase the intake of undergraduate students into medical courses. In addition, a proposal to establish a new medical school at the James Cook University of North Queensland has not been implemented. Universities have for some time applied strict quotas to the intake of students into this field of study. The Commission however expressed caution in relying on manpower predictions and will be closely monitoring future trends in the provision of medical manpower. 
In recognition of a potential oversupply of doctors, a committee has been established to examine and report on the supply of medical manpower and the implications of the current and projected levels of supply. This committee comprises officers of the Departments of Education, Health, Employment and Industrial Relations and Immigration &amp; Ethnic Affairs and the Tertiary Education Commission. I understand that its report to the Government is now in the final stages of preparation. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Education did not make a submission to the Review. 
Not applicable. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Staff may not travel on Concorde aircraft without specific approval from the Public Service Board. Such authorisation has never been requested either for my Department or personal staff. 
Not applicable. 
and (4) Nil. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Discussion of the arms race and the need for disarmament is included in many social studies programs in Australian schools, at both primary and secondary levels. The issues arise in relation to topics such as world government, international peace and understanding, and the role of the United Nations and its specialised agencies. 
There are no Commonwealth programs which make specific allocations for the purpose of preparing school material related to the arms race and the need for disarmament Australian schools do, however, have access to material of a high standard produced both by the United Nations and Unesco, a considerable amount of which has been distributed in recent years by the Australian National Commission for Unesco. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education are the only bodies responsible to me which employ apprentices. 

-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the reply to Question No. 1794  (Hansard,  23 November 1978, page 3351). 
-the Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) Payments in respect of disadvantaged schools for the years 1974-76 are set out in the reports which were tabled in the Senate on the dates listed below: 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1972- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1974-75-19 May 1976. 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1972- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1975-76-2 November 1977. 
Report-States Grants (Schools) Act 1972 -Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1976-77-23 February 1978. 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1973-Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1974-1 October 1975. 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1973- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1975-30 November 1976. 
Report-States Grants (Schools) Act 1973-Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1976- 25 August 1977. 
Report-States Grants (Schools) Act 1976-Financial Assistance granted to each State- 23 February 1978. 
Information in respect of 1 977 is included in the Report on Financial Assistance to each State under the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1976 which I tabled on 24 November 1978. 
Information in respect of 1978 will be published in a future report and I will arrange for a copy to be provided for the honourable member. 
The Disadvantaged Country Areas Program was commenced as a pilot program in 1977. It is not practicable to identify funds to individual schools as the program is operated on a joint basis: all schools within the declared area (both government and non-government) participate in the program. 
In 1977 $680,500 was allocated to Victoria for this program and $7 1 5,000 has been allocated for 1 978. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the answer to Question No. 2638  (Hansard  21 November 1978, page 3156). 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) It is not possible to state what the current rate of illiteracy is for Australia. The collection of statistics on literacy is made difficult by the problem of the definition of 'illiterate*. It is not feasible to apply a single measure of literacy to a total population as this implies that there is a single standard of functional need. I refer the honourable member to the reply to  Senator Lajovic's  Question Without Notice on illiteracy in the Senate on 14 September 1978, in which I referred to the research in this area carried out in the Sydney Metropolitan area in 1977 by  Dr Judith  Goyen of Macquarie University.  Dr Goyen  pointed out that the establishment of a cut-off point to separate illiterates from literates is quite arbitrary, and determined by the researcher.  Her  study indicated that in the Sydney metropolitan area, 3.7 per cent of adults born in Australia and other English speaking countries, and 43.3 per cent of those born in non-English speaking countries were functionally illiterate. 
While this and other research studies do not provide a complete answer as to the numbers involved, it is clear that the problem of illiteracy is a real one for some Australians and, in particular, for Aboriginals and migrants from nonEnglish speaking countries. 
In the reply to  Senator Lajovic  I referred to the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, and the Review of Post-arrival Programs and Services to Migrants, as a result of which a number of initiatives in research and development are being undertaken. The National Inquiry into Teacher Education established in June this year is charged with the responsibility for examining the effectiveness of techniques of early detection, diagnosis and remediation of learning difficulties. 
In response to the report of the Select Committees on Specific Learning Difficulties, which itself was unable to determine the precise number of illiterate adults and children in Australia, the Australian Council for Educational Research was funded by the Government through the Education Research and Development Committee to conduct a national study of literacy and numeracy among 10 and 14 year-olds. In general, the study found no cause for complacency or for immediate alarm and suggested that standards of literacy in these age groups are comparable to the standards in other English-speaking countries. 
Programs for teaching illiterate adults are conducted and/or supported by a number of Commonwealth departments and by the Technical and Further Education Council. These departments and the Council are represented on an Interdepartmental Working Party on Adult Literacy and Numeracy convened by my Department The Working Party's brief is to examine the provision of literacy programs by the Commonwealth with a view to recommending ways of improving coordination and consultation. The Working Party is expected to report in January 1979. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The Asian Studies Co-ordinating Committee of the Curriculum Development Centre instituted the Asian Studies Curriculum Development Awards Scheme in 1978. From 1972 to 1977 a similar scheme, known as the Asian Studies Travel Grants Scheme, had been administered by the Department of Education. 
In 1977-78 an amount of $50,000 was included in the Committee 's program for the Awards Scheme. 
, (3) and (4)  Mr Mutton's  application for an award was considered by a selection committee in March 1978, and he was offered an award subject to revision of his proposal. 
The revised proposal was not accepted until 27 June 1978. The award was subsequently withdrawn as funds could not be made available in the 1978-79 financial year, the year in which the award would have been taken up. 
Only limited funds are available for the Awards Scheme in 1978-79. It is not possible to fund an overseas award for  Mr Mutton,  but he has been offered an alternative smaller grant for study in Australia. 
-The Minister for Education has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Department of Education (See my answer to Question No 2208). 
1 ) Benefit Payment Data. 
(a), (b) and (c) None. 
Department of Finance as required for benefit payment. 
Department of Social Security as required for cross checks of eligibility. 
Names and course details of assisted students to schools, universities, colleges etc for checks on enrolment and attendance. 
See 2(d) above. 
Tertiary Education Commissior (See my answer to Question No 2208) 
to (3) The data stored in the microprocessor are confined to basic statistics. These are the basis for tabulations included in published reports and bulletins of the Commission which are freely available. 
C Australian National University (See my answer to Question No 2208) 
to (3) The results of scientific research studies are made public by appropriate publications. 
ACT Schools Authority. (See my answer to Question No 2208) 
1 ) to ( 3 ) The ACT Schools Authority provides on request to tertiary institutions and tertiary admission offices information relating to student academic records. In addition each independent school and secondary college receives the information relating to its Year 12 students. 
Each student receives a copy of his own academic record at the end of Year 12. 
The information was provided in December 1 977. 
The Darwin Community College and the Canberra College of Advanced Education have a nil return. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Department of Education 
13 (12 x Wang 2200B; 1 x Wang 2200T). (b) 13 (as above), (c) None, (d) None. 
$ 12,000 each (purchase price). 
Processing of education allowances payable under schemes of Student Assistance. 
Data on applications for student assistance relevant to the determination of benefits. 
None. 
Authorised personnel within the Department for official purposes. 
As a result of major procedural changes, changes in functions, staff ceilings and the introduction of programmable calculators in 1976 the total variation in staffing in the State Offices has been a decline of 91 (from 764) from 31 December 1975 to 3 1 August 1978. It is not considered feasible to isolate the effect of any one factor. 
Tertiary Education Commission 
(a) 1 (Wang 2200C Microprocessor), (b) 1 (as above), (c) None, (d) None. 
$36,000 (purchase price). 
3 ) Processing of annual statistical collections for each sector of tertiary education. Recording payments of grants to States. Storage and analysis of data relating to Commission investigations. 
Basic statistical returns on enrolments, staff numbers, grants etc. 
None. 
Authorised Commission personnel for official purposes only. 
7) No net savings were achieved. 
Australian National University 
1) (a) 31 (see list below), (b) 32. (c) l.(d) 1. 
Computer Services Centre, UNIVAC 1100-42 $3,400,000; PDP 1 140 $69,000; PDP 1150 $11 7,000; PDP 1145 $237,000. 
Administration, IBM 360-50 $670,000; INFOREX 5000 $254,000. 
Library, INTERDATA 8 $ 167,000. 
Research School Biological Sciences, NOVA 2/10 $30,000; HP 21 $57,000. 
Medical Research, PDP 8 $86,000; HP 2 1 1 $242,000. 
Research School Chemistry, PDP 1 1 $45,000; PDP 1 140 $256,000. 
Research School Physical Sciences, PDP 10 $182,000; PDP 1 142 $75,000; PDP 15 $100,000; PDP 1 145 $197,000. 
Nuclear Physics, IBM 1800 $100,000; HP 2100 $286,000; DEC KA10 $349,000. 
Research School Social Sciences, DEC KA10 $422,000; PDP 1 134 $45,000; (on order) DEC KX10 $600,000. 
Mt Stromlo Observatory, HP 2100 $210,000; PDP VAX $220,000. 
Forestry, HP 21 $87,000. 
Economics, NOVA 2 10 $60,000. 
Computer Science, BURROUGHS B175 $57,000; TWO NOVA 2 10, TWO SUPER NOVA (all connected) $ 1 10,000. 
The above costs are purchase prices. 
Rental-$28,000 p.a. (IBM 360). 
All computers except for 2 in Administration are for research purposes. The two in Administration are used for payroll, accounts, students records, inventory, stores etc 
Data stored is related to the area in which they are located. 
There is interconnection between the UNIVAC 1 142 and PDP 1 150 in the Computer Services Centre. UNIVAC 1142 and the HP 2100 at Mt Stromlo Observatory are linked. 
Computer Services Centre staff have direct access to service computers. Academic staff and students have access via terminals for research purposes. Administration computers are used only by authorised personnel for official purposes. 
The installation of administration computers led to some reduction in the growth of staff employed in the staff office, accounts and student administration. This has been compensated for by increases in programming, operating and data entry staff. 
Canberra College of Advanced Education 
(a) 1 (Burroughs 6700). (b) 1 (as above), (c) None. (d) None 
$1,250,000 (purchase price). 
Teaching 
Teaching programs. 
None. 
Authorised personnel at the college. 
Not applicable. 
ACT Schools Authority 
(a) 1 (PDP 11/60). (b) 1 (as above), (c) None. 
$181,000 (purchase price). 
Processing of work for ACT Schools Accrediting Agency ruminating in the production of the Year 12 Certificate. Educational purposes in schools and secondary colleges. College administration. 
Educational and statistical data. 
None. 
Authorised personnel for official purposes. Students for instructional purposes only. 
None. However it is estimated 10 extra staff would have been required to perform this work for the newly introduced ACT Schools Accrediting Agency. 
Darwin Community College 
1 ) (a) None, (b) 2 (ICL 2903; PDP 1 104). (c) None, (d) 
1. 
ICL 2903-$30,595 p.a., PDP 1104- $1,596 p.a. (maintenance only, as machine is loaned). 
Teaching, financial management, student administration and library data. 
Teaching programs and administrative data. 
None. 
Authorised college personnel and students for instructional purposes only. 
In 1978 and 1979 nil savings were achieved 1980-0.5 EFT saving, 1981-1.5 EFT savings. These savings are on new staff only. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question. 
Yes. The Australian Research Grants Committee, which is responsible to the Minister for Science, has confirmed that the grant to Professor Aitkin is for a survey of Australian political attitudes. It is part of a continuing study and will update surveys made in 1 967 and 1 969. 
In accordance with the terms of reference and selection procedures which have been used by the ARGC since its establishment in 1965, excellence of the project and the investigator were the sole criteria which influenced the recommendation. Professor Aitkin's project qualified for a share of the available funds in competition with all other applications for support in 1 979. 
During the period 1970-79 the following ARGC gants in the social sciences have been for amounts of 20,000 or more in any one year 
Professor A. H. Pollard and  Dr F.  Yusuf- Macquarie University- 'A survey of family formation in Australia' (1971 $49,000). 
Professors S. B. Hammond and R. F. HendersonMacquarie University-The role of local authorities in the provision of welfare services' (1971 $26,500). 
Professor F. H. G. Gruen and A. A. L. Powell- Monash University- 'Econometric analysis of protection' (1970 $27,384, 1971 $30,764, 1972 $32,858). 
Professor R. F. Henderson, Professor R. I. Downing and  Mr W.  J. Byrt- University of Melbourne- 'Use of manpower in social welfare services'. (1972 $20,161, 1973 $27,319). 
Professor R. F. Henderson and  Dr R.  B. ScottonUniversity of Melbourne- 'Australian social review: A review of current social developments and policies in Australia' ( 1977 $22,420). 

 Dr P. J. Sheehan University of Melbourne;The behaviour of Australian manufactured exports 1963-64-1973-74 ( 1979 $28,268). 

 Ms L. Richards,  Dr D.  Edgar and Professor H. Bisno- La Trobe University, Victoria-Mill Park Project a study of the development of a new outer residential suburb from the families and their social networks through to formal decision making structures in the community' (1979 $20,000). 
The Department of Politics at Macquarie University has in 1978 14 full-time teaching and research staff, and the equivalent of a further two full-time positions filled on a part-time basis. 
There are 36 post-graduate students enrolled in 1978 in the Department of Politics. 
ARGC grants are administered under the States Grants (Research) Act 1965. The Government determines the expenditure allocation for the scheme and the Committee recommends to the Minister for Science support for research to be performed during the following calendar year. 
The funds available are appropriated annually by the Parliament and are subject to examination by the Senate Estimates Committee. 
The Committee issues reports on its operations and these are tabled in the Parliament for the information of all Members and Senators. 
The total estimated grants provided by the Tertiary Education Commission to Macquarie University in 1978 are set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details of radio and television receivers licence fees imposed by various countries are shown on the following tables. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The estimated cost of the proposed Exhibition Telephone Exchange building is $23.3m. 
South East corner of Exhibition and Latrobe Streets, Melbourne. 
8,880 square metres. 
d ) Gross floor area will be 6 1 , 000 square metres. 
976 by the year 1992. 
A gross floor area of 7,039 square metres comprisingManual Assistance equipment presently housed in Lonsdale Exchange; Telephone switching equipment for 4,000 subscribers lines presently located in the Chief Telegraph Office; phonogram and public telegram facilities presently located in the C.T.O.; Melbourne telex exchange of 10,000 lines. (g)685. 
The centre will make use of Stored Program Control equipment. Telephone Exchanges currently serving the north-eastern and eastern sections of the Melbourne Central Business District will have reached equipment space capacity by the time the Exhibition Exchange budding is completed and will be unable to cope with subscriber development. In addition provision is being made for expansion of trunk terminating and switching facilities, and growth in telegraph, telex and data services. 
-The answer to the honourable member's] question is as follows: 
The Special Broadcasting Service currently contracts broadcasting groups to provide programs in languages other than English. These groups are comprised of volunteer broadcasters. Groups are paid at the rate of $55 per hour, with the money being distributed within the group according to the contribution of each individual. In addition, members of the staff of the SBS broadcast on some language programs as well as in English language segments. 
Yes- but the contract is with a group, not with individuals. 
Yes. 
Yes- No formal procedure but appeals can be made to the  Chairman  and Members of the Special Broadcasting Service as distinct from station management. 
No. 
The officers of the SBS are aware of the unusual status of the volunteer broadcasters who work on 2EA and 3EA and the Service is currently considering a revision of policy, in conjunction with its advisory body, the National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council. When a new policy is formulated it will be designed to regularise the relationship between the SBS and its broadcasters and should contain adequate provision for appeals against administrative decisions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to Question No. 1680 appeared in  Hansard,  9 November 1978, page 2709. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
MrI. W.Peter-28 July 1978. 
Two of the six applicants for the position of Concert Manager for the Australian Broadcasting Commission in NSW were more senior to  Mr Peter. His  provisional promotion to the position was the subject of an appeal to the Promotion Appeals Board by one of the unsuccessful applicants. 
Yes. It should be noted that the decision as to who should be promoted was the decision of the selection panel and was not in any way the result of relationships which might have existed between an applicant and ABC Officers. 
Post Offices in South Australian Towns  (Question No. 2178) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
According to the 1976 Census of Population and Housing, published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, there are 47 urban centres in South Australia outside the Adelaide Metropolitan area with an estimated population of over 1,000. Of these 47 urban areas, only two are served solely by non-official post offices. 
The towns are: 
Coober Pedy which has an estimated population of 1,903. 
Stirling North which has an estimated population of 1,028. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) In view of the development occurring in the area east and west of Duncans Road, an additional posting box was considered justified and was installed recently at the corner of Duncans Road and Yalonga Avenue. This site is some 600 metres from the suggested location for a posting box at the corner of Walwa Place and Chirnside Avenue but was considered by Australia Post to be more suitable because of its accessibility to residents living in the areas on either side of Duncans Road. 
Clearances of mail from the new posting box commenced on 20 October 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No private mail contractor, who is entitled by the terms of his or her contract to a substantiated cost increase, has been deprived of that increase. 
Mail contracts fall into two main categories, that is, fixed term and indefinite term contracts. Generally, tenderers can elect to tender under the type of contract conditions which best suit their circumstances. 
There is provision for fixed term contracts to include a price variation clause. Moreover, Australia Post will cancel any fixed term contract if it can be established that the contract terms are causing the contractor undue financial hardship. In such cases, new tenders are called and the previous contractor can re-tender at a new price. 
Although indefinite term contracts have no price variation provisions, a contractor has the option of terminating such a contract on notice (usually of three months), if any aspect, including the rate of payment, becomes unsatisfactory. There is provision also for a competent contractor, with at least three years service, to convert a current indefinite term contract to fixed term conditions, and to include a price variation clause. If mutually suitable conversion arrangements cannot be agreed upon, the contractor still has the option of terminating the contract and re-tendering at a new price. 
There has been no discrimination against any sector of the mail delivery service. 
At 30 June 1978, there were 2,203 fixed term contracts and 2,405 indefinite term contracts in operation. During the two years to 30 June 1978, the rate of" payment on 1,404 fixed term contracts was increased by a sum totalling $1,128,331. During the same period, 20 indefinite term contracts were converted to fixed term with price variation provisions, at a cost of $ 1 3,497. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
ARE II is a crossbar exchange with a limited form of computer control. The AXE system, on the other hand, is a fully computer-controlled switching system. 
Various forms of computer-controlled switching systems have been in operation in the United States and Canada for many years. Also most European administrations are installing one form or another of stored program control equipment. In the Middle East many developing countries are letting contracts for similar equipment. Indeed all around the world, the trend is towards stored program controlled switching systems. In Australia, Telecom has had experience with stored program controlled trunk exchanges which are in operation in a number of major cities. 
Telecom's decision to move to stored program controlled exchanges was based on surveys of world-wide developments and overseas visits by technical experts to assess different systems. For the AXE system international tenders were called. There were seven tenderers from major equipment suppliers. After an exhaustive analysis it was decided that AXE offered the greatest advantages. 
At the 30 June 1978 there were 4.1m subscribers. The estimated figure for 1990 is 7.2m. A continuing program of exchange installation is necessary to meet this development. Also, Telecom is modifying large capital city and provincial exchanges by the addition of ARE II thus extending service life and improving and increasing facilities and reducing operating costs. Currently, much of the growth is being met by ARE II but will progressively be met by AXE as the ARE II program tapers off. 
The purchase and installation of exchange switching equipment of the various types for development of the telecommunications network up to the late 1980s will require an expenditure of about $2,000m. It should be stressed that this figure is lower than the amount which would need to be spent if Telecom continued to install the existing crossbar equipment. 
3 ) There is a reduced need in the exchange equipment installation and maintenance field as a result of the introduction of ARE II and AXE equipment. Detailed studies have been completed in respect of the former and it has been assessed that approximately 600 less technical staff will be required for maintenance work by 1985 as compared with the present staffing levels. However, no overall staff reductions will take place as staff will be redeployed into other work areas. AXE equipment will not be introduced in any quantity before 1983 and the assessment of the overall staffing effect is still under review. Staff associations covering technical staff have been advised that there will be no redundancy due to ARE II. In addition, they have been advised that there will be no redundancy for ten years as a result of the introduction of new technology such as AXE. 
Facilities available with the new equipment will include: 
Automatic Message Accounting for International Subscriber Dialling and later as an optional service for Subscriber Trunk Dialling (STD) within Australia. 
Centralised Interception of Services including: automatic redirection of calls; tracing of malicious calls. 
Push Button telephones using tone signalling with greater speed of operation. 
The capability to introduce new services for customers. For example: 
Abbreviated dialling. 
Tariffs for new facilities potentially available with the new equipment have not yet been determined. In most cases, introduction of a new facility follows a market survey, and an appropriate tariff rate is set, based on cost of provision and likely customer demand. 
There would be no charge applied for certain facilities such as tracing of malicious calls. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to Question on Notice No. 863 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  22 November 1978, pages 3252-3). 
The planning and development of public broadcasting services is a vital, new aspect of the broadcasting system and is undertaken only after careful consideration by government, after consultation with representatives of existing broadcasters and potential public broadcasters, and after close scrutiny, through the public inquiry process, by the general public. 
Planning proposals for new or improved broadcasting services in all three sectors- national, commercial and publiccommonly originate with representations to the Minister, local Members of Parliament, the Postal and Telecommunications Department, or associated statutory bodies such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal or the Special Broadcasting Service. Such representations usually maintain that one or other community need or interest is not being adequately met by existing broadcasting services. 
If the representations present a prima facie case for an inquiry into the provision of new services, a draft planning proposal is prepared by the Postal and Telecommunications Department. 
The Minister's decision to approve a planning proposal is based upon the Department's recommendations and industry comments arising from consultation processes required under section 1 1 lc of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. 
However, full ascertainment of the extent and nature of community needs at the level demanded by the public inquiry process is the responsibility of applicants for a licence. If their application is to succeed, they should satisfy the Tribunal that there is a need for a new service, that their programs are directed towards that need, and that they can present these programs more effectively than rival applicants. 
Nuclear Waste (Question No. 21S0) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 1504 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  22 November 1978, page 3254). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The ABC decided it would progressively adopt the metric system as each stage of the conversion was implemented. This practice accords with the system chosen by the General Conference of Weights and Measures in 1960, Australia being a member nation of that international organisation. The Federal Government in turn set up the Metric Conversion Board, with which the ABC has cooperated from the outset. 
No specific guidelines concerning the use of metric terminology were issued by the Commission itself. However, the publications of the Metric Conversion Board dealing with conversion and reporting have been issued to ABC staff with the instruction that the guidelines contained therein should be observed by them. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 2075 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  24 October 1978, page 2246). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 946 (House of Representatives Hansard, 9 November 1978, pages 2707-8). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 1296 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  22 November 1978, page 3253). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Transcripts of Radio Australia's nightly news bulletins to North America and Europe are available at Australian Embassies. These bulletins comprise wholly Australian content as distinct from Radio Australia's World News on the hour every hour. 
On Wednesday, 6 September the evening roundup of Australian news carried a situation report on a number of strikes ... a Melbourne waterfront stoppage threatening to escalate to a national strike ... a train strike settled in New South Wales but trams and buses halted in Melbourne . . . and a threatened national truck drivers strike following a breakdown in negotiations over demands for wage rises. 
There were seven other stories in the same bulletin ranging from the latest information on uranium mining to the doping of racehorses. The general tenor of Radio Australia 's news bulletins reflects accurately what is happening in Australia. 
Nation-wide strikes and other major industrial disputes cannot be ignored by Radio Australia but their importance in a news bulletin is assessed in the same news value terms as other news stories. It would not be lost on foreign audiences, particularly in Asia, that Australia's overseas service is free to report the good and the bad. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) has a continuing need for the high frequency radio transmitting facilities at its station at Doonside, New South Wales, and therefore, has no plans for the closure of the facility. 
Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) None. 
1975-1; 1976-70; 1977-18; 1978-(to 30 September) 5. 
1975-No record. 1976- 1 Internal Auditor; 1 Concert Officer; 5 Typists; 2 Regional Assistants; 1 Administrative Assistant; 7 Clerical Officers; 4 Cleaners; 1 Clerk Grade 1; 1 Clerk Grade 2; 3 Announcers; 1 Talks Assistant Grade 2; 1 Staging Assistant; 1 Education Producer; 1 Cinecameraman; 3 Production Assistants; 2 Clerks Grade 3; 1 Film Clerk Grade 1; 1 Sound Recordist; 1 Sound Effects Officer; 1 Film Editor Assistant; 1 Program Officer Grade 1; 1 Designer (Regionals); 6 Unable to determine classifications and designations; 6 Operations Officers Grade 1; 5 Broadcast Technical Officers; 1 Broadcast Tradesman; 1 Journalist; 3 News Operations Assistants; 7 Musicians. 1977- 1 Clerk Grade 2; 2 Cleaners; 1 Program Officer Grade 1; 2 Education Officers; 1 Conductor; 1 Staging Assistant; 1 Graphics Artist; 1 Producer; 2 Announcers; 1 Rural Officer; 1 Sports Reader; 1 Reporter; 1 Clerk Grade 3; 6 Operations Officers Grade 1; 1 Broadcast Technician Trainee; 1 Broadcast Engineer Officer 1; 2 Musicians. (Eight additional positions in the Program and News areas were filled). 1978- 2 Cleaners; 3 Clerical Officers Class 1; 4 Typists; 1 Clerk Grade 1; 1 Film Editor; 2 Film Editor Assistants; 1 Film Clerk Grade 1; 1 Cinecamera Assistant; 1 Rural Officer; 1 Program Assistant; 1 Plant Mechanic; 1 Broadcast Technician; 2 Broadcast Trainees; 1 Broadcast Engineer Officer Grade 1; 1 Journalist; 1 News Operations Assistant. (19 additional positions in the Program, Engineering, Management and Orchestral areas were filled). 
Australian Broadcasting Commission: Staffing  (Question No. 23S4) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1975-(a), (b) and (c) 679 (no break-up available); 1976-(a) 393 (b) and (c) 217; 1977-(a) 390 (b) and (c) 205; 1978-(a) 375(b) and (c) 219. 
At 30 September 1978-588. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Manager Queensland; Assistant Manager Queensland; Concert Manager; Accountant; Investigator, Budgets; Chief Clerk; Paymaster; Supervisor Administrative Services; Personnel Officer; Premises and Property Officer; OIC Branch Registry; Program Director; Assistant Programer D(R); Assistant Programer D(TV); Supervisor Publicity; Supervisor TVPres; Music Supervisor; Supervisor Talks; Supervisor Sport; Supervisor Rural; Supervisor Education; Sound Librarian; Supervisor Production Facilities; Senior Film Officer, Presentation Sup(R); Executive Producer; News Editor; Chief of Staff; Heads of News Gathering (R &amp; TV); Director Engineering; Supervisor Training; Supervisor Technical Operations; Supervisor TV Production Operations; Supervisor TVTrans Operations; Supervisor Radio Operations; Supervisor Installations; Supervisor Maintenance; Area Supervisor; Assistant Director Engineering (TV); Assistant Director Engineering ( R); Senior Draftsman; Workshop Foreman; Engineer Supply Officer. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
Smoking in Government Offices (Question No. 2356) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My attention has been drawn only to the fact that three complaints about smoking in offices have been made by employees of Australia Post. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
No. 
There are no plans to place restrictions on smoking in my Department As to those authorities within my portfolio, these are matters for independent management decision. 
Australia Post policy, for example, is that smoking on duty is acceptable, provided that it is not offensive to others andis not a fire risk, and that officers in contact with the public do not smoke when working in view of or in contact with customers. Also, the issue will be considered during the development of Australia Post's Occupational Health program. Telecom's Occupational Health Advisor is similarly currently working on a program aimed at informing employees of the health hazards associated with smoking, and the question of retaining cigarette vending machines on official premises is under review as part of Telecom's Occupational Health Plan. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The numbers of successful applicants for apprenticeships in the former Postal Services Division of the Postmaster-General's Department, for the years 1969 to 1975, and in Australia Post, for the years 1976 to 1978, are shown in the table below: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Neither Australia Post nor its predecessor, the Postmaster-General's Department used commercial road carriers to carry mails between Melbourne and Sydney. Vehicles owned by the former Postmaster-General's Department did carry surface mail between Melbourne and Sydney during the period 14 September 1971 and 19 December 1971. 
Yes. 
Not applicable since PMG road transport was used only as a temporary measure for three months. 
Sampling studies indicate that for the period JulySeptember 1978, 84 per cent of surface conveyed packets and publications and 70 per cent of surface conveyed parcels, were delivered in Melbourne by the second day after posting in Sydney. 
In Australia Post.'s transport fleet, there are trucks and trailers which are suitable for road deliveries. However, these vehicles are committed to specific intra-state work. 
During period 14 September 1971 to 19 December 1971, the former Postmaster-General's Department did not pay road tax and petrol was purchased at the then Commonwealth Government contract rate. Details are not available on the value of savings made. 
, (8) and (9) Australia Post, like its predecessor the Postmaster-General's Department, does not maintain records on the profitability of particular mail routes. 
The detailed figures sought are not available. During the period from 1 January to 30 June 1978, however, $8 1,860 was paid to the New South Wales Public Transport Commission for the carriage of mail from Sydney to Melbourne. The New South Wales Public Transport Commission makes an appropriate payment to the Victorian Railways, but the financial arrangements between these two organisations are not known to Australia Post. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 4,017 contractors who hold road mail service contracts with Australia Post. Contractors hold either Fixed Term contracts which are let for periods ranging from one to five years or Indefinite Term contracts which are let for unspecified periods, but which are subject to review every three years. 
In September 1977, the Australian Mail Contractors Association submitted to Australia Post several matters for consideration during the next review of the mail contracting system, including a proposal that all Fixed Term contracts be let for five years only with the option of a further five years. The next review is to be undertaken during 1979 and the proposal will be considered as part of the review. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In Melbourne and Sydney, the inner zone embraces exchanges within 24 km of the General Post Office while in Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth the inner zone embraces exchanges within a 16 km radius of the GPO. In all capital cities, the outer metropolitan zones extend for a distance of about 16 km from the boundary of the inner metropolitan zone. The configuration of the metropolitan zoning system is illustrated in the information section of metropolitan telephone directories. 
Exactly the same charging principles apply to the inner and outer metropolitan zones in all capital cities. Calls within each zone as well as those between the outer zones and the inner zone are charged at the local call rate. Local calls also apply between adjoining outer zones but trunk rates apply between non-adjoining outer zones. This is in keeping with the group charging arrangements which apply at all centres, metropolitan and country alike. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2903 (House of Representatives Weekly  Hansard,  24 November 1978, page 3577). 
(a) None; (b) None; (c) None. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Telecom Australia advises that asbestos is not used widely in telephone exchanges. However, where it has been used, all known surfaces have been sealed withPVA emulsion and areas are constantly monitored to ensure that dust hazard does not develop. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to the answers provided by the Prime Minister to Question on Notice No. 2638  (Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3156) and Question No. 3065. 
Because I have no personal knowledge of these matters, I ask that the question be placed on notice. An answer will be provided as soon as possible. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (4) School authorities in Australia, both government and non-government, are very conscious of the possible risks to health posed by the use of asbestos as a ceiling insulant in school buildings. Asbestos material was used mainly in the period 1955-65. 
The use of asbestos for this purpose varied from State to State. It was not used in Queensland, Tasmanian and Northern Territory government schools, and its use in South Australia, Western Australia and the Australian Capital Territory was very limited. In all cases, schools have been thoroughly inspected, and remedial action has been undertaken on a priority basis. Some fifty schools are involved. 
Relatively few non-government schools were built from 1955-65, and the health risk from asbestos insulation is consequently low. Some non-government systemic authorities, aware of potential problems, have sought the advice of health authorities in specific cases. 
Apprentices  (Question No.: HI) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. In relation to Part (d) of the question I understand  Mr Cottee  has held various positions at the Branch and Local Electorate Council Level. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following commercial radio and television stations are scheduled to appear before the Tribunal at public hearings for licence renewals before 30 June 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As I have stated publicly the Government does not believe that the election of members of staff to commissions is the most appropriate way, either to ensure an effective Commission or to further the relationship between staff and management. 
The ABC management, together with those unions representing the staff, have developed a joint statement of their position on this issue. This was discussed by the Commission at its meeting on 8 December 1978, and the  Chairman  issued a media release on the matter on that day. 
Government consultation with the ABC on staff ceilings is proceeding. 
See (3) above. 
I remember my experiences with the honourable member in his electorate and in other electorates throughout central, western and northern Queensland. That visit brought home to me the importance of rural mail deliveries. It was at that time that the Australian Postal Commission agreed to consider the possibility of providing a minimum of two mail deliveries a week wherever practicable. I am delighted to say that the Postal Commission will now be aiming to provide a minimum of two mail deliveries a week wherever that is practicable. This basic standard of service has now been accepted. The  Chairman  of Australia Post has pointed out that this will involve additional expenditure amounting to $700,000 per annum by 1980-81. Consequently, over the next three years mail deliveries to approximately half of the households in rural and remote areas which now receive mail less than twice weekly will be improved. 
I have made it plain enough on a number of occasions that no decisions have been made by the Government on the recommendations of the task force. The report of the task force is at the moment the subject of public consideration and debate, quite properly. It is a matter for deliberate decision by this Government. Six months is being allowed for that debate. I want to make it absoultely clear in the context of that debate that this Government believes in the value of regional television. Indeed, Liberal and National Country Party governments developed the system of regional television in this country. We will, as a Government, not be making any decisions which fail to recognise the importance of providing regional television services with strong local identity. We will certainly not be a party to developments which would allow any one broadcasting interest to control commercial television in this country. 
-At the very least, as to the last part, I will have another talk to the honourable member. All members of this House know how tremendously persistent the honourable member for Macquarie has been. He has constantly pressed for the inclusion of his electorate in the Sydney local call zone. As a result of representations by the honourable member and a number of other members of this House, the Government decided just over a year ago to ask- 
There are too many for me to name them individually. The Government decided just over a year ago to ask Telecom to review and report on possible changes to the telephone call charge zoning system. This review has regrettably taken longer than originally expected because of the complexity of the matter and because of the need to consider the issues on a national basis. Telecom officials hope to complete the review by the end of this month, after which the Australian Telecommunications Commission will receive a report from the officials. The Government will receive its report when the Commission has completed its consideration of the matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Tribunal is at present preparing a consolidated report on all its recent inquiries into applications for public broadcasting station licences. 
Copies of this report, which will contain the Tribunal's reasons for its decisions, will be available, when published, to members of the public. 
Transcripts of the Tribunal's hearings are protected by copyright. However, copies of transcripts are available for public examination at the Tribunal's offices in all State capital cities. They may also be purchased from the Commonwealth Reporting Service. 
No further applications for medium coverage public broadcasting licences will be invited in Melbourne until known demand for Category C, low coverage public licences in the capital cities, and for public broadcasting licences generally in provincial and country areas, has been met. Soon after the Government makes its decision on the development of commercial FM broadcasting, I expect to announce a timetable for the further invitation of applications for these types of licences. 
I understand that the rumour which the honourable member has heard is not correct. I understand that the Australian Cricket 
Board has written to both commercial television organisations and the ABC inviting bids for the future television coverage of traditional cricket. I understand that bids have been invited on either an exclusive or a non-exclusive basis and that they are expected in three or four weeks. In a general way, I believe that where major sporting telecasts are won by commercial organisations which cover only part of the country, it is important for the ABC to be able to secure rights to cover those parts of the country which are not covered by commercial organisations. 
I will check on some of the precise details in the honourable member's question. Let me simply say that the Government did agree to the raising of staff ceilings in this area. We have been proceeding to employ a significant number of new radio inspectors in order to ensure that there is proper adherence to the rules and regulations governing radio communications in Australia. I have this matter under review. At the moment a review is being undertaken by the Public Service Board of staff ceilings in this area and in a number of other areas but I do not yet have the result of the latest review. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim report of the Curriculum Development Centre for the year ended 30 June 1978. The final report will be presented once the form of financial statements has been determined and approved by the Minister for Finance and a report is received from the Auditor-General on the audit of the statements. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Education and the Schools Commission are studying the Warnock Report. 
The Government has not taken any initiatives arising specifically from the Warnock Report. While the Report is of course concerned with needs in the United Kingdom, preliminary consideration of its findings suggest that they are relevant to Australian circumstances in a number of respects. However, given the responsibilities of State Governments in education in Australia, much of the Report will be of more direct relevance to the activities of State Education Departments than to those of the Commonwealth education authorities. 
Whether in a legal sense professionals who make an assessment of a child's health or education problem have a right to withhold information from the child' s parents could only be answered by reference to the variety of authorities employing these professionals and to the professional associations to which they belong. In the practical circumstances of professional health and education workers dealing with parents this is an important and complex issue, but I doubt whether a simple answer can be given in terms of moral rights and duties. The Warnock Report addresses this question and its findings deserve study by professionals who have to face the issue. In part, the Report suggests that the discovery of a handicapping condition in a child should usually be revealed to the parents without delay. Where such a condition is only suspected and not confirmed, discretion will need to be exercised in deciding whether to tell the parents of the suspicions and at what stage. The Report makes suggestions about the conditions which should be arranged for parents to be told of their child's handicap and for guidance to be given to them. 
The Government has under constant review special measures to assist young people who are finding it difficult to obtain employment, including those with learning disabilities. The Education Program for Unemployed Youth which was introduced in 1 977 to assist young people for whom educational disadvantage  is  a barrier to their obtaining stable employment has been considerably expanded since its introduction and is currently being evaluated by the Australian Council for Educational Research. The need for further development will be considered in the light of the evaluation report expected later in 1979. The Commonwealth Government, in consultation with the States, is currently giving particular attention to development of improved services to facilitate the transition of young people from school to employment 
5 ) I assume that the conference referred to is a Seminar of Reading Disabilities held in 1978 and sponsored by the Education Research and Development Committee. The Seminar brought together education research workers and administrators and included, as one of the keynote speakers, Professor Satz of the University of Florida who was visiting Australia as a guest of the Dyslexia Research Foundation. One purpose of the seminar was to provide an opportunity for an exchange of information and views between eminent researchers in the special education area and appropriate representatives from each State Education Department; its second purpose was as a vehicle for identifying research and development needs to assist ERDC in any future activities particularly in relation to its commissioned research programs. I understand that the ERDC is taking the views expressed at the Seminar into account in considering the future development of programs. 
Proposals for courses in colleges of advanced education originate in the colleges themselves. Colleges are autonomous institutions and the Government would not wish to influence the content of the courses provided. All courses require the support of the relevant State coordinating authority in advanced education before they can be approved for funding purposes by the Tertiary Education Commission. These State authorities and the individual institutions are well placed to meet community needs and are constantly revising courses for this purpose. Some teacher education courses containing elements on learning disabilities are already conductedin a number of colleges of advanced education. The Government recognises the importance of this subject, as indicated by the fact that it has asked that the National Inquiry into Teacher Education should have particular regard to training in the early detection, diagnosis and remediation of learning difficulties and handicaps. Furthermore, the Report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties has been referred to the Australian Education Council for a joint Commonwealth/State approach to the problem. 
The Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training has been received and will be tabled as soon as printed copies are available. 

 - Mr Speaker, can I thank the honourable member for that question? I would think that the people who live in the remote parts of Australia, right through the outback of this country, would be astonished to find the Labor Opposition in this Parliament against the extension of television services to areas of Australia which presently have no television service. 
-There is no. great effort in understanding the honourable member's question. I would add to what I have already said by saying that the fact of the matter- no amount of Opposition mumbo-jumbo can confuse this- is that the satellite proposal which the Government has approved is no more expensive than the earlier and vastly inferior proposal that we should extend the service by way of repeater stations. So in the satellite proposal we have a proposal to provide real-time television to areas of Australia which at present have no television whatsoever. Many of those areas, of course, already have some form of radio-telephone communication or are linked in some other fashion with the telephone communications system of this country. Some are without the sort of modern telecommunications system which this Government desires to see achieved in those areas. The Australian Telecommunications Commission has underway a $300m program for the provision of automatic telephones throughout the outback of this country which in the space of about ten years will provide first class automatic telephones to virtually the entire Australian community. 
Honourable members will know that it is not the practice for Ministers to comment on matters which are currently before the Government. 
I will be happy to ask the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to take this matter up with the ABC management. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Non-Government Schools (Loans Guarantee) Act 1977 I present a report concerning guarantees and payments made under guarantees pursuant to the Act for the period 19 October 1977 to 31 December 1978. 
I informed the House a couple of weeks ago that it was the Liberal-National Country Party Governments which had developed the system of regional television throughout Australia. I said that the Government regarded local and regional identity in television and, indeed, radio broadcasting, as important- as vital- and that those considerations are uppermost in our minds. I said that those factors would be quite significant and quite crucial when we consider the recommendations made by the Satellite Task Force Report Group. I re-emphasise those remarks. Having said that, I do not think I need to add anything. 
I am aware of the fact that proceedings did not continue yesterday in the law courts. I have to say that matters relating to legal challenges should not be directed to me but, I would imagine, should properly be directed to the Attorney-General. 
It is gratifying to know that some commercial stations like to take the ABC news in preference to any commercial news service. I indicate to the honourable member that the increases are stiff increases and I have therefore arranged to take the matter up with the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to ask him to review them. 
-The Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission will take action to stop the pay of employees who refuse to perform their normal duties. They agree with the Government's principle of no work, no pay. In addition, where employees of the Commissions are made idle as a result of industrial action, stand-down action will be taken. In pursuit of this policy, last night Australia Post stopped the pay of employees who refused to work as directed. Telecom will indicate to the union this morning that if work bans are not lifted immediately it will act on the principle that workers who will not work as directed will not be paid. The Australian people are fairminded and they will agree with the Government's view that, if a person refuses to perform his normal duties, there is no earthly reason why he should be paid. This principle applies particularly where vital public services are at stake, as they are in regard to these postal and telecommunications matters. We believe deeply in arbitration, but we are determined to act against industrial anarchy. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. I visited the CREST headquarters at North Sydney some time ago and was able to observe the excellent work which was being done there by the emergency service organisation. It is providing a variety of services to the community. I publicly acknowledge the work it is doing. We recently amended the Wireless Telegraphy Regulations and we set aside a special channel- channel 5- for use as an emergency calling channel within the citizen's Band Radio Service. This channel is monitored by several organisations for emergency purposes. 
Within the limits of resources all CB channels are monitored for conformity with the operating conditions of the licences granted to operators. The revised regulations identify types of prohibited communications, such as bad language, intentional interference, music and advertising. Operators who cause interference must co-operate in efforts to rectify problems. It is regular practice for the emergency organisations to use the telephone network to relay messages received through the CB radio system. It is my hope that the new regulations which have been drawn up will improve efficiency and reduce interference in CB. Interference is a matter which has given us considerable cause for concern and, of course, it was to cope with this problem that we introduced the new regulations. 
I think it would not be an exaggeration to say that at some time every member of the House has brought to my attention or that of my predecessors matters relating to charging by Telecom Australia. The present position is plainly unsatisfactory, and that is recognised by Telecom and by me. Difficulties arise when Telecom believes one thing and the subscriber believes another. There is no way in which either side can convince the other of the correctness of his case. The equipment in use simply does not allow the matter to be proved beyond all reasonable doubt, if I may put it that way. So the situation is plainly unsatisfactory when neither party can convince the other of his cause. 
On a recent visit overseas, I observed in the United States of America, where detailed accounts are provided for all long distance calls, that the level of complaint against the system was almost non-existent. I am quite certain that a system something like that could do a great deal to overcome the problem which concerns so many members of this House and so many people in the community. The present position is that the Australian Telecommunications Commission proposes to offer to customers optional subscriber trunk dialling automatic message accounting as a choice on any suitable equipment. This would contain expenditure and would offer the service to customers over a wide area of the network. The capital cost of the optional service over a 10-year period is estimated at $56m. Operating costs per annum are estimated at an additional $ 15 m. Telecom expects that this automatic message accounting system could be available in metropolitan areas by 1984, but it is likely to take longer to provide it in other areas because new equipment would need to be introduced. The matter of introducing AMA is under study by the Government. There is a number of matters on which it is necessary to seek further information from Telecom. Of course, the Government will be looking in particular at the possibility of accelerating the introduction of automatic message accounting. 
I point out that procedures governing the conduct of public inquiries are laid down in the Broadcasting and Television Act and under the Act it is for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to make decisions about such matters. Included among such matters, of course, are the presentation and reception of submissions by the Tribunal and the hearing of witnesses. In the course of its duties under the Actand wide powers are vested in the Tribunal for deciding about procedures- the Tribunal will make such decisions. Of course, it will not always make decisions which appeal to all members of the public or to broadcasting interests. Matters have been raised along the lines of the question asked by the honourable member. At this stage, I would simply say this: The Tribunal is committed, as is the Government, to public accountability for broadcasters and to the opportunity for the public to have a say on important aspects of the broadcasting system and the performance of particular broadcasting stations. 
The  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has indicated that he thinks that there may be a need to review some aspects of the procedures which were decided upon and instituted in the Broadcasting and Television Act. I believe that it will be possible to make out such a case. When the Sydney hearings of the Tribunal are over I will hold discussions with the Government about matters relating to public accountability and procedures of the Tribunal. 
-The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has the responsibility to report in writing on all decisions it makes pursuant to licence applications. It is overburdened with work and I believe that would be the only reason which would have deterred it from presenting a report after the Adelaide inquiries. However, I will follow the matter up with the Tribunal and seek the earliest possible release of the written report. 
One could imagine all sorts of happenings in telephone booths if the doors were able to be locked. I am always unhappy to hear about young ladies being dragged forcibly anywhere by anyone. I certainly did have my attention drawn by the honourable member to the case of that young lady. All I can say at this stage is that Telecom Australia has been providing these see-through booths in recent years and it may be that some consideration should be given to whether there should be a return to the old fashioned telephone booths which were not quite so see-through. I shall raise the matter with Telecom. 
I thank the honourable member for his question and for drawing my attention to this important matter. As he rightly recognises, it is not the sort of thing which should be taken on the run in Question Time but rather it should be considered fully and properly in the context of any future amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act. I thank him for his question and indicate that that is the way in which it will be considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2). Yes. This matter has been brought to my attention by the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, QC. 
Certain Aboriginal Communities on Cape York Peninsula and Torres Strait Islands settlements are among remote areas to which it has not yet been practicable to extend the national telecommunications system. 
At present, the network terminates at Thursday Island and messages sent from or to Aboriginal and Islander Communities in the area are passed on via the licensed radio telephone network operated by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement for its own business. The radio network licenses do not make it obligatory for the licensee to handle private messages and the manner in which third party messages are retransmitted is at the discretion of the licensee. 
The Government has decided to extend the national telecommunications network to 1 3 of the Torres Strait Islands. It is expected that the extension of the network will be completed by about mid- 1 979. 
Television: Channel 5A (Question No. 1913) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 )I am aware of the problems that may arise from the use of the Channel 5A television frequency and that its use does not accord with international practice. However, its more extensive use in Australia in recent years has been due to the increasing demand for television services and the allocation of certain VHF frequencies for FM broadcasting. 
Alternatives to the use of Channel 5A involve complex considerations in regard to the allocation and use of the radio frequency spectrum, and particularly the use of mobile radio services. The issues have been explored in some depth in relation to the forthcoming 1979 World Administrative Radio Conference where the future use of the VHF band will be considered. In preparing for WARC Australia is presently taking the position that the use of Channel 5A for television will be phased out when a suitable alternative channel can be made available. 
The withdrawal of Channel 5A usage from the Australian television service, particularly if it is to be replaced by a UHF channel, must be planned on a very long time scale if Australian television viewers are to be protected from unnecessary cost penalties. However, VHF channels are now almost fully exploited, particularly in the major capital cities, and plans for further television development must inevitably turn to the UHF band to a greater extent. 
The Ethnic Television Service to which the Government is committed will utilise the UHF band. There are also plans at an advanced stage for the introduction of translator stations in Sydney and Adelaide in the UHF band. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question No. 2074 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  20 February 1979, page 86). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is not expected that any adoption of the report of the Task Force, which was set up to inquire into all aspects of a national communications satellite system for Australia, will have any bearing on programs which have already been announced or timetables for the extension of television services to remote areas. 
However, the honourable member will be aware from my letters to him of 26 January 1979 and 22 February 1979 that not all programs which have been announced propose the extension of services by conventional means. 
In fact, an international communications satellite is to be utilised as part of the Government's existing program to bring television services to remote communities in Australia. The use of INTELSAT IV will enable viewers in remote areas to receive simultaneously the national (ABC) television programs being shown in capital cities. 
Briefly, the program provides for 56 stations to be established in 1979-80 and 1980-81 at a capital and operating cost of $8. 8m. A further 20 stations which will be the subject of a separate funding approval during 1980 are envisaged for 1 98 1 -82. Of the 56 stations scheduled for the first two years, there will be 41 earth stations receiving programs transmitted to the satellite via the OTC earth stations at Carnarvon and Moree. 
In the honourable member's own electorate, earth stations are scheduled for construction at Andamooka, Coober Pedy and Maree. Quorn and Hawker are also included in the program but will probably be served by conventional means. 
The Eyre Peninsula is not part of the remote areas program but has been included in the on-going three-year capital works program. I have provided the honourable member with details of projects planned for the Eyre Peninsula separately. 
The Government is currently considering the recommendations of the Task Force. No decision has been made on whether or not a satellite system is to be developed and, therefore, it is not possible to predict when a national communications satellite might be operating. The Task Force Report indicated that, should a decision to go ahead with its recommendations be made, the earliest practicable time would be 1985. 
However, programing via Intelsat as part of the remote areas television program should be progressively introduced from mid- 1980. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No mail has been returned from the Blackburn Mail Centre in the three years of its operation. 
On two occasions since the opening of the Clayton South Mail Centre in October 1978, a high volume of mail has resulted in some mail being returned to the Central Mail Exchange (CME) for processing. The first occasion was immediately after the opening of the Mail Centre. The second was in December 1978, when a power failure at the Mail Centre coincided with high mail volumes and mail was returned to the CME in an endeavour to meet service standards. 
Regional mail centres have improved the mail service in Victoria. Service standards have been revised and improved in most areas since the commencement of implementation of the Victorian Mail Network Plan. Sampling studies have indicated that Australia Post has been successful in meeting these improved standards of service. 
The following statistics show the delivery service performance in Victoria in the three months prior to establishment of the first regional mail centre in 1975, compared with three months in 1978: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)(i)No. 
I have stated publicly that the Government does not believe that the election of members of staff to commissions is the most appropriate way, either to ensure an effective Commission or further the relationship between staff and management. 
See above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telecom Australia has now submitted a report to the Government on its rural line upgrading policy and some aspects of the free line entitlement for subscribers connected to rural manual exchanges. That report is presently being considered by the Government and an announcement will be made at an appropriate time. 
-The Minister for Education -has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Statistics published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in 'School Enrolments 1978 (Preliminary)' (Catalogue No. 420 1 .0) show that of all students undergoing secondary education in 1978: 
a ) 7.7 per cent were attending private schools other than Catholic schools, 
b) 1 7.3 per cent were attending Catholic schools, and 
75. 1 per cent were attending Government schools. 
Information is not currently available to answer pan (2) of the question. However, I understand that the Australian Bureau of Statistics plans to conduct a household survey later this year which may provide the information requested by the honourable member. 
Note: The figures in ( I ) above have been rounded for statistical purposes. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Education Act 1 970, 1 present the annual report of the Education Research and Development Committee for the year ended 30 June 1 978, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the report. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2 ) It is not possible to provide information in respect of payments to individual government schools except in relation to grants made under the Special Projects (Innovations) Program of the Schools Commission. The Commonwealth Government, through Schools Commission programs, provides bulk funding to the Victorian Government for government school programs to disburse as it sees fit. 
Funds for non-government schools in the electorate of Murray have been made available under programs administered by the Schools Commission. Payments for the years 1 975- 1 977 are set out in the reports which were tabled in the Senate on the dates listed below- 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1 972- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1974-75- 19 May 1976 
Report-States Grants (Schools) Act 1972- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1975-76-2 November 1977 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1972- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1 976-77-23 February 1978 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1973- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1975-30 November 1976 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1973- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1 976- 25 August 1 977 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1976- Financial Assistance granted to each State- 23 February 1978 
Report- States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1976-24 November 1978. 
Information in respect of 1 978 is not covered in the above reports. In relation to non-government schools it is set out in the schedule below. 
The following funds were allocated to government schools in Victoria through Schools Commission programs in 1 978: 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The monitoring of the effectiveness of arrangements for orientation courses for teachers going to Aboriginal schools in the Northern Territory for the first time indicates that such courses are extremely valuable. European teachers going into an Aboriginal community for the first time are made aware of the cultural gap between their lifestyle and that of the community and are better prepared to do their job without offending the community's wishes and attitudes. The courses have become an integral part of the training process for teachers going to Aboriginal schools. 
The follow-up course at the end of the first term was a voluntary course. In the opinion of the Director of Education in the Northern Territory the follow-up course will enhance the effectiveness of the training to such an extent that the course will be made compulsory from this year. Teachers involved will have experienced common problems and will be able to share experiences and pass on advice. 
The proposition that the Australian Broadcasting Commission televise cricket tests to parts of Australia only involves some programming and technical difficulties. I am advised by the ABC that it is technically impossible, for instance, to carry the tests to only a very small percentage of the population- say 3 or 4 per cent in the really remote areas. But the ABC Chairman has assured me that the Commission would, if approached, be prepared to reconsider the proposal that the ABC telecast the cricket more broadly in regional and remote areas. 
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has faced not unnatural difficulties in attempting to ensure that public accountability ensues and that broadcasters have a proper opportunity to respond to the views of the public in licence renewal proceedings. The procedures which the Tribunal has followed therefore have been obviously evolutionary. Since the Sydney hearings I have met the Tribunal and the Tribunal has been in close touch with the Government's legal advisers. The Tribunal is of a mind to alter the procedures somewhat in order to ensure that, as far as possible, the procedures reflect the desire of the Tribunal to provide proper public accountability. 
I would add that the Tribunal and the Government have had some discussions about the powers of the Tribunal and procedures in general. I should emphasise that the powers which the Tribunal possesses under the Broadcasting and Television Act to conduct its own procedures are wide powers and enable, I believe, public accountability to be a fact. Nonetheless the Government and the Tribunal have been discussing the procedures and powers with a view to the possibility of legislation, if it is thought necessary, in the Budget session of Parliament. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 1 present the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act 1967 1 present a report by the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education on the operations for the year ended 31 December 1977 together with financial statements in respect of that year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
Station 3CR is monitored on a limited random basis by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal along with all other broadcasting and television stations. 
and (4) I am aware of complaints, particularly by the Victorian Jewish Board of Deputies, regarding certain programs broadcast by station 3CR. The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal which is to conduct a public inquiry into the allegations which have been made against the station in May has kept me informed of developments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Postal and Telecommunications Department- no; Special Broadcasting Service- no; Australian Broadcasting Tribunal-no; Australian Broadcasting Commission- no; Australian Telecommunications Commission- yes; Australian Postal Commission- yes; Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia)- yes. 
(a) Postal and Telecommunications Department- not applicable. 
Special Broadcasting Service- not applicable; Australian Broadcasting Tribunal- not applicable; Australian Broadcasting Commission- one in 1977. 
Apart from formally indentured apprentices, an extensive training system exists in the ABC's Engineering Division for both formal and on-the-job training of recruits- usually school-leavers- to meet the specified qualifications for Operations Officers and Broadcasting Engineering Officers. The number of trainees recruited over the past six years are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Mr M. A. K. Thompson, MIMechE, MIEAust; ( b ) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 293, Brisbane, Queensland 400 1; (c) Civil Engineer; (d) 2 1.9.72-20.9.75. 

 Mr J. Tehan, MA, LLB; (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 1686, Melbourne, Vic. 3001; (c) Grazier; (d) 
7.9.71- 6.9.74. 

 Mr A. J. Smith, OBE; (b) C/o Regional Manager, ABC, P.O. Box 694, Townsville, Queensland 4810; (c) Company Director; (d) 1.7.67-31.12.68, 1.1.69-31.12.71, 
1.1.72- 31.12.74. 

 Mr G. A. Richardson, MA (Oxon); (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 1686, Melbourne, Vic. 3001; (c) Sharebroker; (d) 1.7.67-31.12.69, 1.1.70-31.12.72. 

 Mr A. M. Ramsay, CBE BEc (b) Deceased (died 25.5.78); (c) General Manager, South Australian Housing Trust; (d) 20.7.67- 1 9.7.70, 20.7.70-19.7.73. 

 Sir John (then  Mr J.  T.) Reid, CMG, LLD, DASc; (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 1686, Melbourne, Vic. 3001; (c) Company Director; (d) 1.1.61-30.6.62, 1.7.62-30.6.65, 7.9.65-6.9.68, 7.9.68-6.9.71. 

 Mr P. Masel, OBE, ED; (b) Deceased (died 27.2.72); (c) General Manager (Retail); (d) 1.7.67-30.6.70, 1.7.70-27.2.72. 

 Sir Robert Madgwick OBE, MEc, DPhil, DLitt LLD, FACE; (b) C/o General Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 487, Sydney, NSW 2001; (c) Vice-Chancellor; (d) 1.7.67-30.6.70,1.7.70-30.6.73. 

 Mr H. S. Lodge, LLB, AFAIM (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box D190, Perth, WA 6001; (c) Barrister; (d) 3.8.72-2.8.75. 

 Mr A. G. Lowndes, CBE MSc; (b) C/o General Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 487, Sydney, NSW 2001; (c) Business Executive; (d) 1.7.56-30.6.59, 1.7.59-30.6.62, 
1.7.62- 30.6.65, 7.9.65-6.9.68, 7.9.68-6.9.71, 7.9.71-6.9.74. 

 Mr H. F. Lashwood, JP (b) C/o General Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 487, Sydney, NSW 200 1; (c) Trade Union Executive; (d) 9.1.73-8.1.76. 
Miss R. M. Felgate, MBE; (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 293, Brisbane, Qld 4001; (c) Tutor and Examiner in Speech and Drama; (d) 1.7.60-30.6.63, 
1.7.63- 30.6.66, 1.7.66-30.6.69, 1.7.69-30.6.72. 

 Mrs D. E. Edwards, OBE, BA; (b) C/o Regional Manager, ABC, P.O. Box 201, Launceston, Tas. 7250; (c) Community and Civic Affairs; (d) 16.8.62-30.6.63, 1.7.63-30.6.66, 1.7.66-30.6.69, 1.7.69-30.6.72, 1.7.72-30.6.75. 
Prof. R. I. Downing, BA, DipEc; (b) Deceased (died 10.1 1.75); (c) Professor of Economics; (d) 1.7.73-10.1 1.75. 

 Dr E. Hackett, MA, MD(Dubl), FRCPA, FRACP, FACMA: (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 1419, Adelaide, SA 5001; (c) Senior Pathologist; (d) 26.7.73-25.7.76. 

 Sir Henry Bland, CBE LLB, FRSA (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 1686, Melbourne, Vic. 3001; (c) Company Director; (d) 26.7.76-3 1. 12.76. 

 Mr A. E. Harris, FAIM; (b) C/o General Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 487, Sydney, NSW 2001; (c) Company Director; (d) 7.9.74-6.9.77. 

 Mr K. Jacobsen: (b) C/o General Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 487, Sydney, NSW 2001; (c) Entrepreneur; (d) 7.9.74-6.9.77. 

 Mr T. J. Smith; (b) C/o Manager, ABC G.P.O. Box 293, Brisbane, Qld 4001; (c) General Manager (Retail); (d) 16.1.75-15.1.78. 

 Mrs C. Benn, BA, DipSocStud; (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 1686, Melbourne, Vic. 3001; (c) Associate Director (Social Work); (d) 22.7.75-2 1.7.78. 

 Mr M. J. Webb, BA; (b) C/o General Manager, G.P.O. Box 487, Sydney, N.S.W. 2001; (c) Producer, Radio Programs; (d)23.I0.75-22.!0.78. 
Professor R. W. Harding, LLM; (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box DI90, Perth, WA 6001; (c) Associate Professor of Law; (d) 23. 10.75-22. 10.78. 

 Mr L. E. Short, OBE; (b) C/o General Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 487, Sydney, N.S.W. 2001; (c) Trade Union National Secretary; (c) 12.2.76-11.2.79, 12.2.79-11.2.82. 

 Mr D. K. Williamson, BE(Mech) (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 1686, Melbourne, Vic. 3001; (c) Playwright; (d ) 23. 10.78-22. 10.8 1 . 

 Mr K. W. Tribe, LLB; (b) C/o General Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 487, Sydney, N.S.W. 2001; (c) Solicitor; (d)23.10.78-22.1O.8l. 

 Mr H. J. Elliott, MBE, MA( Cantab.); (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box D190, Perth, WA 6001; (c) Company Director; (d) 23. 10.78-22. 10.81. 

 Mrs R. Roe, CBE (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box D190, Perth, WA 6001; (c) Community and Civic Affairs; (d) 11.8.78-10.8.81. 

 Dr R. D. Goodman, BA, BEd, Phd, FACE; (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 293, Brisbane, Qld 4001; (c) Reader in Education; (d) 8.9.77-7.9.82. Resigned 1 1.8.78 and appointed as Commissioner in respect of the State of Queensland 11.8.78-7.9.82. 

 Sir Bernard Callinan, CBE DSO MC, BCE, DipTRP, FIEAust, F1CE, FRAPI, FRTPI, FIArbA (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 1686, Melbourne, Via 300 1 ; (c) Civil Engineering Consultant; (d) 8.9.77-7.9.82. Resigned 1 1.8.78 and appointed as Commissioner in respect of the State of Victoria 1 1.8.78-7.9.82. 

 Mr D. V. Gunn; (b) C/o Regional Manager, ABC, P.O. Box 201, Launceston, Tas. 7250; (c) Company Director; (d) 1.1.77-31.12.79. 

 Mr R. M. Glastonbury, JP (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 1419, Adelaide, SA 5001; (c) Trade Union Secretary; (d) 1. 1.77-3 1. 12.79. 
Prof. L. Kramer, OBE, BA(Melb), DPhil (Oxon) HonDLitt (Tasmania), FAHA, MACE; (b) C/o General Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 487, Sydney, NSW 2001; (c) Professor of Australian Literature; (d) 1.1.77-31.12.79. 

 Mr J. D. Norgard, BE, FSASM(Met), ASASM (b) C/o Manager, ABC, G.P.O. Box 1686, Melbourne, Vic. 3001; (c)  Chairman  of Metric Conversion Board  Chairman  of the Pipeline Authority; (d) 1.7.77-31.12.79. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
AUSTRALIAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION-COMMISSIONERS SINCE I JULY 1975 
(a)  Mr A.  G. Gibbs, A.O., (Chairman); (b) Railway Administrative Offices, 67 Spencer Street, Melbourne, Vic. 3000; (c)  Chairman  Victorian Railways; (d) 30.6.75-10.9.75. 

 Mr R. D. Somervaille  (Chairman as from 10.9.75);  (b) c/o Dawson Waldron, Solicitors, 22nu  Level,  6G Martin Place, Sydney, NSW 2000; (c) Solicitor, Company Director and Chairman, Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia); (d) 30.6.75-29.6.80. 

 Mr T. E. May,  (Deputy Chairman as from 1 1.6.76); 
P.O. Box 167, Wahroonga, NSW 2076; (c) Company Director; (d) 30.6.75-29.6.80. 

 Mr J. H. Curtis; (b) Communications House, 199 William Street, Melbourne, Vic. 3000; (c) Managing Director, Australian Telecommunications Commission; (d) 30.6.75-29.6.80. 

 Mrs J. Hancock; (b) P.O. Box 295, Glenelg, SA 5045; 
Research Assistant; (d) 30.6.75-29.6.80. 

 Mr K. C. Turbet (b) 451 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic. 3000; (c) General Secretary, Australian Telecommunications Employees Association; (d) 1.7.75-10.11.77. 

 Mr F. J. Green, CBE (b) Postal and Telecommunications Department, P.O. Box 84, O'Connor, ACT 2601; (c) Secretary, Postal and Telecommunications Department; (d) 29.7.75-28.7.80. 

 Mr P. 1. Nolan; (b) 254 La Trobe Street, Melbourne, Vic. 3000; (c) Secretary, Australian Council of Trade Unions; (d) 30.8.78-29.8.83. 

 Mr C. B. Quartermaine, DFC (b) Welcome Station, Laura, Qld 4871; (c) Cattleman; (d) 30.8.78-29.8.83. 
*  Mr F.  J. Green is presently on sick leave pending retirement.  Mr E.  E. Payne, Acting Secretary, Postal and Telecommunications Department, has been appointed Acting Commissioner. 
OVERSEAS TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (AUSTRALIA)-COMMISSIONERS SINCE 1 JULY 1975 
(a)  Mr A.  G. Gibbs, A.O., (Chairman); (b) Railway Administrative Offices, 67 Spencer Street, Melbourne, Vic. 3000; (c)  Chairman,  Victorian Railways; (d) 31.10.74-10.9.75. 

 Mr R. D. Somervaille, (Chairman); (b) c/- Dawson Waldron, Solicitors, 22nd Level, 60 Martin Place. Sydney, NSW 2000; (c) Solicitor, Company Director and  Chairman,  Australian Telecommunications Commission; (d) 10.9.75-29.6.81. 

 Mr T. E. May, (Vice-Chairman from 1 1.6.76-9.9.78); (b) PO Box 167, Wahroonga, NSW 2076; (c) Company Director and  Deputy Chairman,  Australian Telecommunications Commission; (d) 10.9.75-9.9.78. 

 Mr N. F. Stevens, OBE, (Vice-Chairman since 21.9.78); (b) c/- Arthur Young and Co., 50 Bridge Street, Sydney, NSW 2000; (c) Chartered Accountant, Company 
Director and Chairman, Defence Industry Committee; (d) 11.6.76-10.6.79. 

 Sir G. B. Kater (Deceased); (b) -: (c) Formerly Chartered Electrical Engineer and Grazier; (d) 3.3.66-22.8.75. 

 Mr R. W. Turnbull, MBE; (b) Communications House, 199 William Street, Melbourne, Vic. 3000; (c) Formerly Senior Assistant Director-General, PostmasterGeneral 's Department (d) 1.2.73-1.10.75. 

 Mr J. H. Curtis; (b) Communications House, 199 William Street, Melbourne, Vic. 3000; (c) Managing Director, Australian Telecommunications Commission; (d) 22.11.74-28.7.81. 

 Mr F. J. Green, CBE (b) Postal and Telecommunications Department. PO Box 84, O'Connor, ACT 260 1: (c) Secretary, Postal and Telecommunications Department; (d) 29.7.75-28.7.81. 

 Mr H. S. Cottee (b) 448 Old Northern Road, Castle Hill, NSW 2154; (c) Company Director; (d) 21.9.78-20.9.81. 
*  Mr F.  J. Green is presently on sick leave pending retirement.  Mr E.  E. Payne, Acting Secretary, Postal and Telecommunications Department, has been appointed Acting Commissioner. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am unaware of any organisations which are unable to continue publication and distribution of essential literature as a result of the postal increases on 1 January 1 979. 
1  asked Australia Post to re-examine the new charges and after careful consideration of all the issues involved, Australia Post reaffirmed its advice that charges for the Registered Publications Service should be increased. Under the Postal Services Act 1975, Australia Post is required to set charges at a level which enable it to meet all its operating costs and at least fifty per cent of its capital expenditure. Ian sure it will be appreciated that, if concessions are given to one class or user, charges paid by other users would have to be increased, or services reduced, if Australia Post is to meet its financial objectives. 
Australia Post expects that the increased charges which came into effect for registered publications on 1 January will do no more than contain the shortfall between revenue and costs for this service to the same level as in previous years. In effect, then, the users of this service are continuing to be subsidised quite substantially at the expense of other postal users. 
Australia Post tariff charges, including the charges for registered publications, are reviewed each year. When the review is undertaken this year, I will closely examine the proposals put forward by the Commission for charges for registered publications. Of course, such an examination of the charges will have to be made in the context of the overall budgetary situation and the prospective trading climate for Australia Post. 
My reply to the Reverend Canon Lowe, Secretary of the Australian Religious Press Association was along the lines of my reply to pan (2 ) of this question. 
With respect to the first part of the honourable member's question, the Government has made it clear on a number of occasions that it will not be making decisions about a communications satellite for Australia which will have the effect of destroying the good work done over many years in building up a system of regional commercial stations which enables local and regional identity to be effected in the telecasting in a particular area. With respect to the last parts of the honourable member's question, I do not know the sorts of conditions on which  Mr Packer's  organisation has offered telecasts to commercial regional organisations. As I understand it, the question of any relationship with the Australian Broadcasting Commission has not arisen at this stage, although the ABC has stated that in the event of an approach it would be prepared to reconsider its position. The Commission will meet on Friday of this week. Of course the details are not my responsibility. I simply say that the Government believes that if a commercial organisation or any organisation wins sporting telecast contracts for a certain area of Australia, it is in the national interest for great sporting events to be carried to the whole of Australia if at all possible. For that reason, the Government has asked the Australian Broadcasting Commission to consider what it might do in these circumstances. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  made a quite extraordinary speech in which he made hardly any positive proposals for the development of broadcasting in Australia. He concentrated on wild and remarkable attacks on people, which I would have thought hardly became his office or the nature of the subject under discussion. I would like to give him the benefit of the doubt, but it seems to me that his approach is marked by ideology- an old-fashioned socialist ideology at that- and an antagonism towards commercial radio and television. If there was one thing that came through his remarks it was that he has an apparent dislike, almost hatred of commercial radio and television. 
To use the comment of one of my colleagues in the House, it seems to be an obsession. Much of what he said can easily be passed by as irrelevant to current broadcasting practice in this country and, I would have thought, to the sensible development of a philosophy for broadcasting in this country. The way in which he spoke reminded me of the way in which he and his colleagues governed when in office. They took a quite definite set against the development of commercial interest in the frequency modulation spectrum and decided that there would be no commercial FM broadcasting. The Government rejects that approach entirely and I think that there may be some questioning about that approach in the Opposition ranks today. We believe that Australia has a good broadcasting system. It may be fair to say that Australia has one of the best broadcasting systems in the world, because within it we combine elements of commercialism with a national service and with a non-profit public sector in a fashion which is unusual and which, I think it is fair to say from my experiences around the world, is admired throughout the Western world. 
Might I spend a moment or two nailing some of the extraordinary propositions which the Leader of the Opposition put forward to show how little support his cause merits? For instance, he said that I advocated a royal commission into the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 1 did not advocate a royal commission into the ABC. What I advocated and what the Government believes in and asserts as a matter of definite policy is that there should be regular public inquiry into the ABC. I said that I would consider whether the best mechanism would be by way of a royal commission. I did not say that there should be a royal commission into the ABC. I have always said that there should be regular public inquiry into the ABC, as there is, quite properly, into other aspects of the broadcasting system. At the moment the Government is considering the nature and the timing of the inquiry into the ABC which it has decided will be held. 
In the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition there was some interesting stuff about the communications satellite issue. I think that the people who live in rural and remote parts of Australia would be astonished to find that the Labor Party Opposition in this country is so careless about the communications needs of people in remote and rural areas. One can hardly believe this when one sees the Opposition sitting in this place with hardly any rural representation and obviously determined that the rural representation which it does enjoy in this House shall be reduced to nothing in the future. There is no question that when the people who live throughout the rural and remote parts of Australia consider the issue, they will see that there is only one political force in this country, that is, the force of the Government, which is considering seriously the ways in which proper, relevant and contemporary communications needs and services can be provided in such areas. 
We have not Ye, made a decision about the task force recommendation, and there are matters to consider. Among those matters are matters of finance, such as those raised by the Leader of the Opposition. But in the midst of his remarks he stated that any decision to have a communications satellite for Australia would be a knockout blow to regional television. On behalf of the Government I have said- and my colleagues have repeated it again and again- that we will not be making decisions which will lead to the destruction of those commercial regional television interests which we as a government have developed and nurtured over the years. Their very existence is, I think, testimony of the desire of Liberal-National Country Party governments over many years to provide a sense of local and regional identity in broadcasting in this country. That is a cardinal aspect of our broadcasting policy and it will not be swept away by anything- be it satellite considerations or anything else. 
The Leader of the Opposition stated also that the Australian Broadcasting Commission decided that its projected 13-part historical series on Australia would be cancelled and that, therefore, a considerable amount of money which had been expended would be wasted. I have been advised for some considerable time that whilst the costs in that project have escalated greatlymaking it a much greater project and potentially a much more significant project in the cultural life of this country and in the work of the ABC and its contribution to the cultural life of the country- the project has not been cancelled. The project is under consideration and certainly will be considered for the coming financial year and I understand, considered with a great deal of sympathy. So it is quite untrue to say that the project has been cancelled. What was originally a relatively modest project grew into a very much greater one. The time scale needed to consider these issues is considerable. That project is under consideration at the moment. So, once again, what the Leader of the Opposition said on this project merits no further attention. 
The Leader of the Opposition went on to say that I as Minister- and therefore I take it the Government- have reversed my commitments. I find it fascinating that the Leader of the Opposition talked about that but did not give a single documented illustration of any commitment which I have made or the Government has made about broadcasting practice or policy which has been reversed. If he was meaning to say that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has taken some time to implement some of the policies which we as a government approved in principle that would be fair comment and I would accept it. I would not necessarily feel greatly chastened by such a suggestion because these matters take time and the Broadcasting Tribunal must give proper time to and must, in its considerations, involve the broadcasters, interested members of the public and interested community groups in the process of decision-making about great matters, such as Australian content, children's programs and advertising standards. These matters simply cannot be left wholly to broadcasters or, in other respects, wholly to parents. 
There is no way in which any government in this country can say that it is careless of the needs of children and of the impact of television on our children. There is no way that we can wash our hands and say that it is simply up to the parents to guide their children and to ensure that the television set is switched on and off as appropriate to the children's needs. It is that recognition which led the Government to accept the recommendation of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal that a children's television committee should be established in order to oversee the matter of children's programs and, in particular, the provision of programs specially for children in what is to be set aside as a children 's hour. The Australian Children's Television Committee was established many months ago and, I understand from all parties, has been working effectively and in the interests of the production by commercial television of appropriate programs which are produced with the interests of children at heartprograms, therefore, which can be relied upon by parents. 
It is churlish to suggest that all this can be done overnight. The Children's Television Committee was established quickly under the chairmanship of  Dr Patricia  Edgar, who had been a member of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board during the term of office of the Australian Labor Party. I understand that that Committee is working well and that it will be making definite recommendations on a range of important matters relating to children's programs in the very near future. At the same time, those approaches are being met also by significant moves being made in commercial broadcasting. Money is being set aside for research and special people are being placed in charge of children's program development. There is a great deal of interest and experimentation in how to satisfy the needs of children. I think that it is agreed all around the community that efforts made in the past simply have not been good enough. But, of course, Rome was not built in a day. 
I refer to an other illustration of the odd approach of the Leader of the Opposition. He talked about the Broadcasting Tribunal in a general fashion. He used a great deal of personal invective and displayed a tendency to put people into boxes- to write them off as standing for this or that interest. I desire to see in the Broadcasting Tribunal people of quality who can play a part in such a significant body, but not necessarily people who represent this or that interest group. Indeed, I would have thought that the very way in which the Leader of the Opposition was reaching for the concept of appointing a judge or a retired judge as  Chairman  of the Tribunal is indicative of the sort of person he would want included in that body. But then we were told that we ought to have on the Tribunal two representatives of broadcasters and two representatives of consumer groups. I think that we ought to have people of quality. I instance the latest appointment to the Broadcasting Tribunal to underline the approach I have taken. I have obtained the Government's approval of the proposition that  Dr Robin  Sharwood, a former professor of law at the Australian National University, should be appointed as an acting member of the Tribunal, in particular to sit on the 3CR inquiry in Melbourne. This is a most significant inquiry about which I will not speak at length at this stage because the matter in effect is sub judice, being at the moment under inquiry. The inquiry has been adjourned for some weeks. 
It is fair to say, as I have said before, that it takes time for many of the vital matters which are under consideration by the Broadcasting Tribunal effectively to be implemented. The Tribunal is serious about the matter of accountability of broadcasters. It wants to find the right, sensible balance between the proper rights and interests of broadcasters to answer claims which might be made about their performance and the interests of the public in ensuring that this country has better television and that the publichas a proper voice. Only recently after the Sydney hearings I had discussions with the Broadcasting Tribunal about procedures in general. I make it quite clear that the Broadcasting and Television Act provides that the matter of procedures is for the Tribunal to determine. But I believed that it was important for me to have a talk with the  Chairman  and members of the Tribunal about the general nature of procedures relating to broadcasting licence renewal procedures. The Tribunal has sought legal advice and, I believe it is fair to say, it has modified some of the approaches which it adopted in the Sydney hearings in an attempt to ensure that there is fair play all round. I have said before in this House that these are vital matters, which should concern all Australians, on which I will seek the views of the Tribunal and interested members of the community. If it appears that further modification to the legislation is necessary later this year, I will have no hesitation in bringing forward that modification. 
-The answer to the first part of the honourable member's question is no and the answer to the second part of the question is that it is a budgetary matter. 
I would be happy to ask the Australian Broadcasting Commission to consider this matter. Obviously, farmers are always interested in clouds. It would seem to me to be highly desirable for them to be able to see on television whatever pictures of clouds they can. I will not only ask the ABC to consider sympathetically the honourable member's request but also, if the Minister for Science is involved, I will see whether he can be kind about costs. 
Two amendments have been circulated by the Government. I seek leave to move them together. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
In the absence of  Mr Ellicott  the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) and (b) The number of notices terminating tenancies of Government-owned dwellings in the ACT for the period in question was as follows: 1 976- January, 8; February, - ; March, 3; April, 73; May, 39; June, 10; July, 5; August,1; September, 47: October, 72; November, 56; December, 39. 1977- January, 11; February, 20; March, 4; April, 18; May, 42; June, 26; July, 31; August, 84; September, 64; October, 45; November, 66; December, 63. 1978- January, 85; February, 73; March, 53; April, 29; May, 85; June, 32; July, 32; August, 38; September, 48; October, 62; November, - ; December, 25. 1979- January, 70; February, 73; March, 92. 
In the vast majority of instances the issue of such notices resulted in the tenants arranging to pay outstanding rent and eviction action was not further pursued. For example during the period October 1977 to March 1979 only 3 tenants were actually evicted, another 15 having vacated before such action became necessary. 
) The information is not available. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to adjust grants to the States for government and non-government schools in respect of cost increases which have occurred since this legislation was last before the Parliament. The amendment to the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1977 will be the final adjustment as it makes provision for increases in the salary and wage content of 1978 recurrent programs to December 1978. The States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1978 will be amended again in the Budget sittings of the Parliament to take account of further cost increases in accordance with the Government's announced policy. This Bill does not increase any of the nongovernment schools general recurrent and migrant education grants as the necessary adjust-, ments to these grants have been effected previously. To finalise 1978 grants, an additional appropriation of $ 1.6m will be necessary making a total allocation for that year of $639.6m. The adjustment of 1979 grants involves a further appropriation of $ 1 1 m which increases the commitment of the Commonwealth for this year to $673.6m. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Act 1977 and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Act 1978. The Bill adjusts the approved programs of grants to the States for tertiary education for the years 1978 and 1979 by providing additional amounts in the light of variations in costs between June and December 1978. In addition to supplementing the grants for 1979 in respect of approved advanced education level courses in Technical and Further Education institutions, the Bill provides a further $485,000 for these courses. It also modifies the conditions relating to the provision of funds for special initiatives in the training of TAFE teachers in order that State instrumentalities as well as colleges of advanced education may become eligible to receive grants. 
In his statement to the Senate on 19 October 1978, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  noted that a shortfall in expenditure of the 1978 tertiary education capital programs would enable additional university and college of advanced education capital projects to commence in the second half of 1 979. This Bill makes provision for expenditure of up to $4.1m on the additional projects in respect of 1979, including $1,288,000 for commencement of the Australian Graduate School of Management building. With the additional amounts that the Bill provides in respect of 1978 and 1979, the total programs of grants to the States for each sector are as follows: 
In accordance with the Government's decision to restore fixed triennial funding for recurrent expenditure the Bill also provides recurrent grants for colleges of advanced education in respect of the years 1980 and 1981 at the same real level as for 1 979, and supplements the recurrent grants to universities, for these years, which were provided previously in the principal Act. The total provisions for recurrent expenditure, other than for equipment, for universities and colleges of advanced education are $6 15.8m and $422.2m respectively for each of the years 1980 and 1 98 1 . It is expected that arrangements for recurrent grants for technical and further education in respect of 1980 and 1981 will be announced during the Budget sittings after the Government has considered the report of the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. In accordance with the new arrangements for funding non-government business colleges, announced by the Minister for Education on 6 December 1978, the Bill makes provisions for grants to the States for assistance to non-government business colleges in the 1979-81 triennium. The proposed level of assistance, $55 per student per month at December quarter 1978 cost levels up to a maximum of $550 per student per annum, is the rate which was recommended by the Tertiary Education Commission in its report on non-government business colleges. It will be adjusted to take account of cost increases. 
Assistance in 1979 is being provided in respect of courses which were in existence in 1978 and met the guidelines recommended by the Tertiary Education Commission. Colleges will be required to achieve non-profit status by the end of 1979. In approving courses beyond 1979, the Minister for Education will be advised by a small standing committee. Assistance in general is to be restricted to courses involving more than 20 hours of teacher-class contact a week and of more than 20 but no more than 44 weeks duration. This would not include courses leading to registrable academic awards. Assistance will not be provided for courses in colleges which have not been recognised by a relevant State regulatory authority. The provisions will provide assistance on an equitable basis in an important area of training. However, the Government is opposed to the proliferation of small business colleges, and to any development of business colleges annexes by non-government secondary schools. The approval of individual courses is to be reviewed after three years and the overall scheme of assistance is to be reviewed after it has been in operation for five years. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
In the absence of  Mr Ellicott  the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) No. The existing Cotter system which includes the Bendora and Corin Dams can serve a population of 225,000 persons. The population of Queanbeyan and Canberra as at June1 979 is expected to be 242,000 persons. 
Costs associated with amortization, interest and operating costs of the Googong system on the basis of the capacity which is being utilized by the present population will be reflected in water charges determined for the1979-80 financial year. The actual level of these charges has not yet been determined. 
$46.1m. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Although OECD statistics are available which enable the information sought by the honourable member to be calculated, it should be noted that the statistics are not generally comparable because of deficiencies in their scope and coverage. For example, the OECD statistics for Australia exclude persons attending teachers colleges and technical and further education institutions, while those for several of the other OECD countries are based on an incomplete coverage of between 80 and 90 per cent of tertiary education. Statistics for Japan are estimated. The different emphasis placed on parttime education is also of considerable importance when interpreting the data since the OECD statistics refer only to full-time students, as are the general differences in education systems. A description of how the education systems in each country are classified is contained in 'Classification of Educational Systems- Summary Volume' OECD Paris1 975. 
Bearing the above cautionary notes in mind, the table below shows the proportion of the population aged from1 7 to 22 inclusive undertaking full-time tertiary education according to the most recent available OECD statistics. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Postal and Telecommunications Department did not make a submission to the Review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy; the Australian Postal Commission, however, did provide a submission. 
A copy of the submission has been forwarded to the honourable member. 
Television: Effects on Children  (Question No. 3205) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government is presently considering the Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts titled  Children and Television.  No decision has yet been made by the Government on the Report's recommendations. 
to(4)See(l). 
Recommendations on Children's Television  (Question No. 3206) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government is presently considering the Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts titled  Children and Television.  No decision has yet been made by the Government on the Report's recommendations. 
See (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The level of usage by customers is not the sole criterion in deciding whether a non-official post office should continue to operate. 
The network of post offices and mail delivery services is reviewed continually to ensure that the facilities and services provided best meet the needs of customers, having regard to economy in operation. In reaching a decision to close a nonofficial post office, Australia Post takes into account a variety of factors, including the volume of business handled at the office, the likely level of business in the future, the general trend of development in the area, the effect the closure is likely to have on the local community and the non-official postmaster and the capacity of the postal network and the alternative facilities in the area to meet the needs of local residents. 
Action to close a non-official post office may be taken in isolation but, generally, closure would coincide with some other event such as the retirement or resignation of the nonofficial postmaster, the conversion to automatic operation of the manual telephone exchange or the expiry of the lease of the premises in which the post office operates. It is normal practice for a proposal to close a post office to be discussed with local representative bodies and for State and Federal Members of Parliament to be advised in advance of the proposed action. 
Not applicable. See ( 1 ) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Duncans Road/Yalonga Avenue corner was initially preferred to the Chirnside Avenue/Walwa Place corner as the site for a posting box because it was considered that the former location would cater for residents on both sides of Duncans Road. It was considered also that the location would be convenient for most local residents as Duncans Road is a major access road to the area. A subsequent review of the use being made of the posting box at the Duncans Road/Yalonga Avenue corner snowed that, in fact, little use was being made of it and Australia Post has now relocated the posting box at the Chirnside Avenue/Walwa Place corner. 
Prior to the relocation of the posting box, the nearest house was about 130 metres away. 
The initial site was the subject of some such criticism. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) As a public trading enterprise which endeavours to recover the total operating cost of the services it supplies by levying direct charges on the users of those services, Telecom Australia employs cost benefit analysis to evaluate the financial impact of potential investment projects on Telecom and users of the services. Financial evaluation is only one input to overall consideration of a project. Other inputs are availability of resources, the effect on other programmes and social implications. 
Telecom does not regard social cost benefit analysis, as generally understood, to be the most appropriate method, in its circumstances, of evaluating the social implications of a proposed course of action. It assesses these by interactions and discussions not only wth interested sectors, but also with the broad community as was exemplified in the activities leading to the publications  Telecom 2000  and  Outcomes of Telecom 2000.  The Telecommunications Consultative Council and frequent interactions with Staff Associations provide an opportunity to gauge the effect on staff. In addition, environmental impact statements are prepared where relevant. 
Not applicable. 
In general the techniques used for appraising the financial aspects of an investment proposal are the same as they were in June 1973. There have, however, been a dumber of initiatives taken to improve the application of the techniques and to assist in their uniform application throughout Telecom. For example, regular training courses on investment appraisal techniques have been established and a number of guidelines and instructions have been issued which specify various inputs which are to be used in any appraisal and the way in which the techniques are to be applied. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
Security at key telephone exchanges is regularly reviewed and following a recent survey of the Barton exchange a number of additional security measures have been taken. 
The special national significance of some of the involved PABX's has led to diverse arrangements being progressively implemented. These are designed to minimise the effect of a failure at Barton. 
See(2)above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is standard practice to have only one Telex exchange in a city where the number of services justifies provision of an exchange, and the Canberra Telex exchange is located in the Civic building. However, Black Mountain Tower is only one of a number of diverse paths for telex traffic through that exchange. 
Civic exchange has been the subject of a security survey and the recommendations of that survey are being implemented. This action will provide a standard of security appropriate to the status of the building and its equipment in the national telecommunications network. 
Many equipment locations are involved in signalling to and from Black Mountain Tower. However, the planned diversity of the national network minimises the impact of traumatic failure at any particular equipment location. 
I can assure the honourable member that Telecom Australia is conscious of the continuing need for security of the telecommunications network, and that security is a matter given continual review. 
Without assuming that some of the assumptions in the honourable member's question are accurate, I will seek a response from the Minister in the other place and let the honourable member have it as soon as possible. 
by leave- I wish to advise the House of the Government's decision to hold an independent review of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In accordance with that decision, a three-member committee of review will be appointed to consider and report to the Government on the services, policies and performance of the Commission under its present statutory charter, and recommend appropriate future objectives, functions, statutory powers and policies of the Commission. It will be obvious from the terms of reference, which I will shortly detail, that this is a wide-ranging review of the Australian Broadcasting Commission which will not only identify current problems but, hopefully, will offer solutions to maintain the ABC as an essential part of the Australian broadcasting system in the years ahead. 
There has not been a review of the ABC's role since the Commission was established in 1932. In other countries, publicly funded national broadcasting services have been subject to such public inquiries. In 1 976 the Green inquiry into the Australian broadcasting system came to the conclusion that the policies and performance of the ABC should be subject to review every seven years, starting in 1980. The Government at that time adopted in principle the concept of an inquiry into the ABC, and has now decided that this review should begin later this year. It has also decided that the committee of review should report by March 1981. The Government has given careful consideration to the appropriate type of inquiry required, and has decided that the most satisfactory approach is for an objective and independent review conducted by a chairman and two other members specially appointed for the task. The Government believes that this will provide the necessary flexibility and informality, particularly in view of the Green Inquiry recommendation that such reviews of the ABC should be held periodically. 
The committee of review will invite submissions from all sectors of the community. The invitation for comment will extend to staff of the Commission who will be encouraged to put forward their views. Whether discussions should be sought with persons or organisations making submissions will be for the committee to judge. During the Green inquiry, concern was expressed that the Commission's policies and performance were constrained by the legislative, administrative, regulatory and funding framework within which it operated. It was submitted that the ABC's ability to hold its place as an essential and innovative force within Australian broadcasting was made difficult under the present broad terms of its charter, and a definitive description of the ABC's role and responsibility to the community was long overdue. The Government has therefore decided that the terms of reference for the review should be as follows: 
Having regard to the statutory powers and functions of the ABC as set out in Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, the Committee of Review shall examine and report on the services, policies and performances of the Commission. 
The Committee shall examine and make recommendations on the appropriate future objectives, functions, statutory powers and policies of the Commission, with particular reference to its provision of national, State and regional services, having regard to the extent of likely available resources, reports relevant to the field of broadcasting and the services provided by public and commercial broadcasters. 
Without otherwise limiting its scope, the Committee shall also review, comment on the effectiveness of and make recommendations as necessary on the Commission 's: 
relationships with other Government bodies; 
b) programming policies and procedures for the maintenance of program standards; 
funding arrangements, including forward planning, budgeting and revenue; 
management systems, including: 
the relationship between the statutory Commission and the management structure which services it; 
lines of authority in management and constraints on managerial effectiveness; 
manpower planning and staff utilisation; 
recruitment, staff development, tenure of appointment and training; 
industrial relations; 
arrangements for management improvement, review and systems development; and 
resource allocation practices and planning for technological developments. 
The Government is committed to the continued existence of the ABC as a vital and innovative force within Australian broadcasting. It looks to this review as a vehicle whereby the ABC can be made fully aware of the success or otherwise it has had in serving the Australian community. It is an important initiative both for the ABC and it is an important initiative for the future of broadcasting in Australia. 
In the absence of  Mr Ellicott,  the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Two litre cartons of milk are not marketed in the ACT. The retail prices of milk home delivered and through shops are identical. There is no 'delivery fee'. The industry margins making up the current retail price of a 600 ml bottle, a 600 ml canon and a 1 litre carton of milk are as follows: 
In the absence of  Mr Ellicott,  the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The prices paid to farmers is not a matter in which I am involved. It is a matter between farmers and supply companies. The current price paid for milk landed in Canberra is lower than supplying companies would receive for milk landed in other capital cities at the rates presently prevailing in those cities. It is true that the average weekly earnings of persons in the ACT is higher than the comparable average in any State. However, the term 'comparable average' is somewhat misleading as it does not identify those persons in the ACT whose weekly earnings are much less than the Territory average. Such persons include the unemployed, (who now represent 6.8 per cent of the workforce) plus juniors, pensioners, and other low income earners. 
) Yes. Milk supplied to the ACT is cheaper because supplying companies are prepared to offer and receive lower prices for such supply. The decision whether or not to participate in milk supply to the ACT is a matter for the commercial judgment of individual companies. 
Milk Consumption in Canberra (Question No. 3398) 
In the absence of  Mr Ellicott,  the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no specific contracted amount of milk for the current milk supply contract period. Milk contracts have been let for a percentage of the market and not for a fixed volume. 
Milk Promotion in Canberra  (Question No. 3399) 
In the absence of  Mr Ellicott,  the answer to the honourable member's questions is a follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The ACT Milk Authority. 
An amount approaching $30,000 is expected to be outlayed on promotion in the current financial year. 
With funds accumulated by the Authority from its various trading activities. 
Yes, in the  Milk It Instead and Moose  promotions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 979-4, three of which have not been completed. 
Project 1- (a) Women's Research Group, Knox Community Relations Centre, Melbourne. 
Examination of the economic, social and physical situation of women in the home and their perception of their role. 
$22,635. 
Project 2- (a) Roy Morgan Research Centre Pty Ltd. Completed. 
'Life. Be In It'. Awareness and purposes study. 
$2,720. 
Project 3- (a) Consensus Research Pty Ltd. 
'Life. Be In It' television commercial- pre and post testing. 
$4,000. 
Project 4- (a) Survey Centre. 
b) Evaluation of effects of national 'Life. Be In It' study. 
$40,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
I have been informed by officers of the AttorneyGeneral's Department that the information available to them in relation to the matter raised in part (1 ) of the question does not disclose that an offence against the Telecommunications ( Interception ) Act 1 960 has been committed. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Immigration (Education) Act 1971 I present a report on provisions for child migrant education for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
by leave- In making this statement I acknowledge fully the importance of the strenuous representations of so many of my colleagues in this House and in the Senate. I have been constantly reminded by members in both metropolitan and country areas of the communications problems which exist in Australia. A number of my colleagues, including the honourable member for Kennedy (  Mr Katter),  who is in the House now, have invited me to the more remote parts of Australia where I have been able to see the problems for myself, and seeing is believing. My colleagues' representations have led to these changes, which mean big cuts in telephone costs throughout Australia. Without the dedicated work of honourable members such as the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  such major changes would not have been made. 
There have been representations from both sides of the House. I wish to advise the House of the decisions which will reduce certain categories of telephone call charges across Australia. There will be direct and big financial benefits for those who live adjacent to outer metropolitan telephone zones as well as for people in isolated rural areas and the more distant country towns. In addition, there are potential savings for every Australian telephone user. 
The reductions result from a comprehensive investigation undertaken by the Australian Telecommunications Commission at the request of this Government into its zoning and charging practices, particularly in relation to local call areas. Telecom was asked by the Government to determine, among other things, the possibility of providing cheaper access for customers with telephone services in those areas of Australia which do not have access to a basic service centre at local call rates. The review has been completed and the changes to take place in the charging structure represent a major progressive reform which will have a significant and beneficial impact on those sectors of the Australian population which do not have comparable access to some business and community services taken for granted by metropolitan subscribers. Telecom has found it possible to give all people in rural areas access to a service town at very cheap rates, in line with government policy, and also to introduce this new charging system for people living adjacent to metropolitan areas. This will enable calls to be made to and from the centres of interest and the cities in the case of outer metropolitan people, at a rate of 9c for three minutes where local calling does not already apply. Telecom will also cut certain other trunk charges. 
The reductions will operate from May next year under a scheme to be launched by Telecom called 'Community Access 80 '. It is a bold and innovative step towards helping Australians, particularly those in rural areas, who currently pay more for their communications than the Government would desire. Telecom has responded splendidly to the Government initiative in this matter. Under the new scheme- this is a very important feature- distance will no longer be a barrier to country people's ability to communicate with their nearest service town. A community call is to be introduced at a charging rate of 9c for each three minutes and this will apply between a telephone subscriber and the nearest community service centre, irrespective of distance and whenever that centre is not in the normal local call area. This will be of substantial benefit to people in many rural areas. At present, local call charges usually cut out beyond about 30 kilometres and sometimes even less. 
Under the new scheme, 9c community charge for each three minutes will apply both ways between a subscriber and the nearest service centre, even if that centre is 300 or 400 kilometres away. In one particular case in the electorate of my friend the distinguished honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  there is a customer on the Nullarbor Plain whose nearest service centre is Kalgoorlie, nearly 700 kilometres away. The extent of his benefit under community calling, which is given despite the distance, is that by day he will save $2.61 on every three minute conversation. The tyranny of distance which has for so long added considerably to the costs of running a farm or property will be significantly overcome by these cuts. A reasonably flexible approach has been taken by Telecom in identifying the nearest service centres, and factors such as medical services, schools, shops, banks, garages, transport and special business facilities have been taken into account. 
Community access 80 recognises that today appropriate services are usually concentrated in the larger country centres, and smaller towns closer to the subscriber cannot provide all of the support necessary for farm and property management and for personal needs. It is not expected that the new concessions will alter the established pattern of communication between a rural landholder and his service centre; instead he will be making the same calls he currently needs but as community calls with considerable saving. It should be stressed also that the savings work in reverse; the service centres will have the same community call concession when contacting the landholder. This will ease some of the costs of running a town business. 
In addition to this new community call service, there will be further benefits for people living in those rural communities with large distances between them. Trunk call charges within the one charging district will be set at a maximum of 8 lc for three minutes (day rate)- the night rate is of course much cheaper after the changes the Government introduced last November- and between exchanges in adjoining districts at a maximum of $1.35 for three minutes (day rate) irrespective of distance. 
In our remote and isolated areas, where charging districts cover thousands of square kilometres, this new concession incorporating a maximum charge means that the cost of the longer distance trunk calls where population density is low will fall substantially. At the same time, the trunk rate applying to distances between 485 and 645 kilometres has been reduced by consolidating it with the rate now applying over distances between 325 and 485 kilometres. This represents a saving of over 10 per cent and will affect calls on routes such as RockhamptonBrisbane, Lismore-Sydney, Hobart-Melbourne, and Perth-Kalgoorlie. The Government is gratified that  major  benefits from this review will go to outback people who have suffered because of the vast distances and sparsely populated areas of our continent and who have had to pay a higher price for their communication services. 
The Government has also been concerned by the effects of communications on the rapid expansion and development of towns and satellite cities adjacent to our metropolitan areas. It is clear that many people living in these areas now travel into the metropolitan cities for their work and business and have a need for the cheapest possible phone rates between their homes and the cities. To meet this problem, Telecom will apply as part of its community calling plan, the special community calling rate of 9c for each three minutes between the charging zones adjoining the metropolitan areas and the central metropolitan zone. This change will affect the services to many thousands of people throughout Australia. 
This new rate will enable callers in areas such as Penrith and Campbelltown near Sydney, Cranbourne, Bacchus Marsh and Kilmore near Melbourne, Gawler near Adelaide, and Rockingham near Perth to call into the centre of their capital city at the community call rate. This will halve the cost of a daytime call from Penrith for example, to the central business district of Sydney from 18c to 9c for each three minutes. Similar savings will apply for the outer urban areas of other capital cities. The Government sees this proposal as not only aiding families whose breadwinners are employed in the city, but of considerable benefit to industries that have decentralised to these outer areas and still depend on the major city area for sales and supplies. 
I want to make it quite clear that there will be no increase in the charge for any calls as a result of the community calling plan. The new arrangements will require modification to technical equipment at many points throughout the network, while on some routes additional circuits will be required to carry increased traffic. Telecom advises that the earliest date at which it will be practicable to complete these changes and introduce Community Access 80 is May 1980. It could take a little longer in some instances, particularly on country routes to complete the upgrading program, but all charges involved will come down as from May. 
Telecom will forgo a considerable amount of revenue as a result of these concessions but because of some considerable increase in traffic as a result of them, the cost in net terms will be about $13m a year. The capital cost for implementing Community Access 80 is expected to be just under $2 m. 
Neither the Government nor Telecom would see these reductions and benefits as the means of answering every individual criticism of the present charging structure. Despite the reduction now being made for calls over distances between 485 and 645 kilometres, the longer distance trunk rates remain higher than we would like. The costs of these calls affect many business and private communications and have significance for centres such as Albury-Wodonga. The Government is hopeful that, as Telecom's revenues allow further reductions in tariffs in the future, it will be possible to make adjustments which will benefit such centres. A small number of other areas may also feel disappointed that they have not been able to gain specific advantage under Community Access 80 other than in the general reductions to some longer distance calls. When it is possible, other longer distance rates will be the next target for reduction. 
Looked at overall, however, a significant step has been taken in reducing charges and removing inequities, particularly those affecting rural people who have been deserving of special assistance for so long. It is a move which is especially tailored to meet Australia's long distance communications problems. 
It is only about six months ago that I was able to announce substantial cuts in subscriber trunk dialling call charges throughout Australia. Some of those reductions gave a 60 per cent cut on the day rate. Now, a short time later, Telecom has made it possible to grant further concessions and lower charges for many telephone customers. This ability to introduce big cuts in telephone charges at a time when almost every other cost is sadly on the increase emphasises the significance of this announcement, and provides ample evidence that both the Government and Telecom are concerned to ensure that communications services are provided to the Australian public at the lowest possible cost. I present the following paper: 
Telephone Call Charges- Ministerial Statement, S June 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Education on guidelines for Education Commissions for 1980 to 1982. 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telecom Australia has advised that it would be feasible though quite costly to fit all public telephone cabinets with locks. One of the design features of the aluminium seethrough cabinets now in wide use is that the door opens inwardly and diagonally, thus providing for easy bracing by a person inside and therefore a reasonable degree of protection against instrusion. It is conceivable that if it were possible to lock the cabinet door from the inside this could provide further protection from a would-be attacker in some instances, but it is doubtful whether a locked door would deter a determined attacker. Fortunately, incidents such as those referred to by the honourable member involving public telephone users are rare. Instances where a person faints or collapses due to illness in a public telephone cabinet and requires outside help are a more frequent occurrence and rendition of assistance in such cases could be seriously hampered if the cabinet door were locked. On balance, it is Telecom's view that it is preferable not to fit locks to public telephone cabinets. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pursuant to section 19 of the Broadcasting and Television Act the Tribunal may, by reason of the confidential nature of any evidence, direct that proceedings be held in private. No pan of the proceedings of the Adelaide hearings nor any subsequent licence renewal hearings was held in camera, but the Tribunal has agreed to accept certain material on a confidential basis. 
Material of a financial or operational nature which may place a licensee at a commercial disadvantage if it were made public. 
It is not likely that the Tribunal would admit a public witness to confidential proceedings involving another party. 
The Tribunal can give no undertaking about the renewal of a licence until it has considered all evidence, including any evidence which it may have heard pursuant to section 19 of the Act. 
Yes, provided that the Tribunal is satisfied that grounds exist for admitting such persons either as 'having an interest in the proceedings ' or as 'Tribunal witnesses '. 
A person accorded the status of'having an interest in the proceedings' has the right to call witnesses to give supporting evidence. 
A person accorded the status of'having an interest in the proceedings' has the right to cross-examine the applicants 'witnesses. 
8 ) See answer to Q.7. 
Yes, provided no breach of copyright is involved. 
Yes, if considered to be necessary. 
Yes. 
The Tribunal will have regard to only those submissions which it judges to be relevant to the renewal of the licence, i.e. material which relates to the performance of the particular licensee in question. 
As a general rule the Tribunal would not wish to traverse ground which has already been covered and on which it is well informed. 
By press notice, private correspondence, personal contact, and telephone. 
(i) Advertisements inviting submissions to the Adelaide inquiries were inserted in the following newspapers: 

 The Australian- 23.8 . 78 page 4; 

 Adelaide Advertiser- 23.8.78 page 3 1 ; 

 AdelaideNews-23.8.78 page 2 1 ; 

 Adelaide Advertiser- 29.8.78 page 10. 
The advertisements measured 6 inches by5 inches ( 16 cms  by 3 cols). 
Advertisements concerning the commencement dates of the inquiries were inserted as follows: 

 Adelaide Advertiser- 5. 10.78 page 8; 

 Adelaide News- 5. 10.78 page 10; 

 The Australian-5. 10.78 page 2; 
The advertisements measures5 inches by 43/4 inches ( 12 cms  by 3 cols). 
The Tribunal arranged for all such advertisements to be placed in the 'General News Section' of each newspaper. It was not satisfied with the placement in the  Advertiser  on 23 August and arranged for it to be more advantageously placed on 29 August. 
16) $1,51 1.40 
17) The Tribunal arranges for news releases in respect of all of its proposed inquiries. Wherever possible these are supplemented by radio, television and press interviews. 
Procedures for, and administrative requirements associated with, the conduct of licence renewal hearings are matters for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Twenty non-official post offices were closed in South Australia between I January 1978 and 30 April 1979. 
and (3) The locations of the non-official post offices, and the reasons for their closure, were as follows: 
Allenby Gardens- Closed on 30 June 1978 as the location of the office was considered unsuitable, the postal business had declined to a low level and another post office, Welland, is located approximately 700 metres away. The proprietor of the delicatessen, in conjunction with which the Allenby Gardens Post Office was conducted, is licensed to sell postage stamps. 
Andrews- Closed on 3 1 December 1978 following closure of the general store, in conjunction with which the post office had been conducted, and a decline in postal business. A roadside mail delivery service has been extended to serve the local residents. 
Clarence Park West-Closed on 24 November 1978 because business had declined and the nearest post office, 
Glandore, is only 800 metres away. The owner of the delicatessen, in conjunction with which the post office was conducted, is licensed to sell postage stamps. 
College Park-Closed 28 April 1979 because postal business at the office had declined and two other post offices, St Peters and Kent Town, are located within 600 metres. Postage stamps are available from a licensed stamp vendor operating in the same block of shops. 
Cygnet River- Closed on 31 July 1978 because postal business at the post office had declined to a low level and there was no likelihood of an increase. Mail is delivered by contractor four times a week and the posting box has been retained. 
Edwardstown East- Closed on 12 January 1979 because of the postmaster's resignation and a decline in postal business. Postage stamps are available from a licensed stamp vendor operating the store in which the post office was conducted and the posting box has been retained. The nearest post office. Daw Park, is approximately I  'A  kilometres away. 
Ferryden Park -Closed on 22 May 1978 following difficulties with the business management of the post office. Postage stamps are available from a licensed stamp vendor operating in the same block of shops and the nearest post office, Woodville Gardens, is approximately 800 metres away. 
Kalyan- Closed on 3 February 1978 following the closure of the manual telephone exchange attached to the post office, the postmaster's resignation and a decline in postal business. Residents collect their mail from Perponda Post Office, 5 kilometres from Kalyan. 
Mansfield Park -Closed on 30 November 1978 following difficulties with the business management of the post office. No suitable alternative accommodation was available. Postage stamps are available from a licensed stamp vendor at Mansfield Park and the nearest post office, Mansfield Park North, is approximately 800 metres away. 
Nonning- Closed on I July 1978 because the office, which was located on a pastoral property, was converted to a telephone office and the postal business at the office had declined. Residents now receive and send mail through a community mail bag. 
Peterborough West- Closed on 31 July 1978 following a change in ownership of the store in conjunction with which the post office had been conducted. Postal business at the office had been declining and the new store owner was not willing to conduct the office. The nearest post office is at Peterborough, approximately 3 kilometres away. 
Port Pirie West- Closed on 31 August 1978 following the postmaster's resignation and a decline in postal business. Three other post offices, Port Pirie, Risdon Park and Solomontown, operate within 2 kilometres. 
Seacliff- Closed on 27 November 1978 because of the postmaster's resignation and a decline in postal business at the office. Postage stamps are available from four licensed stamp vendors located in the area. The nearest post office, South Brighton, is approximately 1.3 kilometres away. 
Semaphore South- Closed, at the postmaster's request, on 30 November 1978. Postal business had been declining. The nearest post office, Semaphore, is approximately 850 metres away. 
Tepko- Closed on 30 December 1978 following the closure of the manual telephone exchange attached to the post office, the postmaster's resignation and a decline in postal business. A roadside mail delivery service has been extended to serve the local residents. 
Warrachie- Closed on 22 February 1978 following conversion of the manual telephone exchange to automaticoperation and because of declining postal business at the office. Postage stamps are available from a licensed stamp vendor at Warrachie and mail is delivered through a community mail bag service. 
Whyalla North- Closed on 31 January 1979 because postal business had declined and two other post offices, Whyalla Playford and Whyalla, are located within 2 kilometres. Mail is delivered through a community mail bag service and the posting box has been retained. 
Whyalla South-Closed on 3 1 July 1978 as the owner of the premises in which the office was conducted advised that accommodation for the post office would no longer be available. Postal business had declined and two other post offices, Whyalla Playford and Whyalla, operate within I kilometre. The area is served by a street letter delivery service and postage stamps are available from a licensed stamp vendor at Whyalla South. 
Wild Horse Plains-Closed on 20 December 1978 when the general store, in conjunction with which the post office was conducted, closed. Mail is now delivered to roadside mail boxes. 
Wool Bay- Closed on 30 April 1979 because of a decline in postal business and the availability of suitable alternative service facilities. A community mail bag service has been provided and postage stamps are available from a licensed stamp vendor operating in the store in which the post office was conducted. 
Generally, very little use was being made of the post offices concerned and the alternative arrangements made and/or the existing facilities and services that were available, are considered adequate to meet the postal needs of customers in each area. The decision to close each of these offices was made only after careful consideration of all the factors involved, including the effect the closure was likely to have on the local community. Moreover, it is normal practice for a proposal to close a post office to be discussed with local representative bodies, and for State and Federal Members of Parliament to be advised in advance of the proposed action. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia Post in its 1977-78 Annual Report pointed out that it has been recognised from the outset that Telecom would ultimately assume direct responsibility for much of the agency work performed by Australia Post. The concern expressed by Australia Post and indeed by Telecom is that this changeover is to be achieved without leading to duplication of effort. 
The withdrawal of Telecom agency work will result in Australia Post requiring fewer staff than would otherwise be the case and will create in some cases, particularly in country areas, excess staff capacity in the short term. 
Some of the staffing problems accompanying withdrawals from Australia Post of Telecom agency work are being alleviated by the transfer of staff from Australia Post to Telecom. Staff engaged full-time on a Telecom function are offered employment with Telecom when the function is transferred. Should the offer be declined, the staff remain with Australia Post and are allocated other appropriate duties. In some such cases, staff are relocated to facilitate their continued employment. 
Staff engaged part-time on Telecom functions are not offered employment with Telecom and work rearrangement and staffing adjustments are handled by Australia Post. The under-utilisation of staff caused by the loss of Telecom agency work in these circumstances may be offset partially by growth in postal business. 
The withdrawal of Telecom agency business will, of course, reduce Australia Post's revenue with consequent adverse effects on operating results since, at least in the short term, Australia Post costs will not fall at a corresponding rate. 
The agency work performed by one enterprise for the other is governed by a formal commercially-based agreement drawn up 4 years ago and oversighted by a management committee representing both authorities. 
Increases in charges for services such as the public telegram service are not dependent on relationships between Telecom and Australia Post. The cost of the telegram service is dependent on factors such as increases in handling costs and the continuing trend of reduced public demand for the telegram service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Negotiations between Australia Post and the Non-official Postmasters' Association are an ongoing feature of the relationship between the two bodies. The Association is free to discuss and negotiate conditions affecting its members at any time. At present, the following items relating to non-official postmasters are under consideration by Australia Post and negotiations with the Association are soon to be resumed: conditions to apply to non-official postmasters whose offices are closed or converted to official status; review of basis of payment for non-official postmasters; office cleaning allowance; counter reimbursement scheme. 
Electorate of Grey:Automatic Telephone Exchanges  (Question No. 3524) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Provision is being made by Telecom Australia for the conversion of manual telephone exchanges to automatic in the Grey Electorate as indicated below. 
A close examination of other manual exchanges in the Electorate for conversion in later years is in progress. Telecom expects that considerable inroads will be made into the remaining manual exchanges by 1 985. 
1979- 80- 
Black Rock, Yatina, Minvalara, Kimba, Leigh Creek, Peterborough, Poochera, Karcultaby, Emerald Rise, Coultawarrow, Cleve, Cowell, Dark Peake, Monument, Kielpa. 
1980- 81- 
Burra, Calca, Orroroo, Butler Tanks, Arno Bay. 
1981- 82- 
Wootoona, Pordia, Eurelia, Hammond. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Telecom Australia has advised that Special Service Restoration Centres are being established in each State capital city except Hobart. 
) Telecom provides two basic types of service viz: 
Telephone service where subscribers have access to all other subscribers over the public exchange switched network. Subscribers report their telephone service difficulties and faults to Service Assistance Centres. 
Special Services such as burglar alarm lines, datel lines, lines for transmitting data for computers and other devices, and special lines such as for Defence and Aircraft Control. Special Services provide a greater range of facilities than telephone services, and many of them have complex line and equipment arrangements. Some lines for Special Services span several States. 
Customers report faults on Special Services to the Special Service Restoration Centre. Special Services usually have an identification number prefixed by N to facilitate their identification for reporting purposes. Special Service Restoration Centres are staffed by people with the necessary specialist skills and centralised records necessary for the efficient handling of fault reports. Experience has shown that Service Assistance Centres cannot efficiently handle the fault reports for the increasing variety and complexity of Special Services. 
No. There are two types of service as outlined in (2 ) above. 
Telecom aims to provide a high standard repair service to both telephone services and Special Services. 
The number of new connections of telephone and telex services and the number of repairs undertaken each quarter since July 1977 is shown in the following Tables A and B which relate to the Brisbane area and Queensland respectively. 
On the matter of staff levels, separate figures for installation and repair work separately are not readily available as the staff is utilised in either area as the work load demands. As a guide however the total number of technicians and linemen employed at the end of each quarter on District type work is also given in Tables A and B. 
During the first quarter of 1979 and over most of the Griffith Electorate 95 per cent of requests for new service were provided within 1 5 working days. In some suburbs such as the Paddington area industrial bans imposed have prevented the use of overtime to level out peaks of work. In that area between 70 and 80 per cent of services are being provided within 5 weeks. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Telecom Australia has advised that in the Brisbane area as a whole the average time for telephone connections requiring construction of a new line is four weeks, and a similar time is taken where removal of a service within a building is required to transfer a service from one lessee to another. Where the line and telephone are already in place at the new location, transfer is effected without delay. 
and (3) Staff shortages are not the cause of these delays. However, because of an industrial ban on overtime these delays are likely to continue. At the present time additional staff could not be gainfully employed between peaks of installation activity. However, having regard to the expanded programme of installations planned for next year some increases in field staff numbers can reasonably be predicted within the next few months. 
CRAFT Scheme (Question No. 3598) 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The Tertiary Education Commission has carried out an examination of the scope for establishment in Tasmania of additional specialist courses of national interest and I have received a report from the Commission. The suggested establishment of a National Timber Industry Training School was one of the matters considered by the Commission. 
The recommendations of the Tertiary Education Commission are under consideration and an announcement concerning this matter and other aspects of the 1 0 Point Plan can be expected in the Budget context. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 1 975-76 - $ 1,809; 1 9 7 6- 7 7 -$ 1 ,  3 3 1 ; 1977-78-$36,287. 
1975-76-$247; 1976-77-$300; 1977-78-$7,379. 
Serial numbers of stolen or missing money transfer forms are circulated to all post offices where money transfers may be cashed. In addition, in March 1979, a computer check system was implemented to supplement the manual detection of stolen postal money orders presented for payment. 
These arrangements are continually under review to ensure that adequate procedures for detection are maintained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) None. 
21 (20 full-time and 1 part-time) (17 employees are located in the office of the Divisional Manager, Sydney West ( Parramatta ) and 4 in the Post Office ). 
(a)l. (b)43. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
I ) and (2) In the course of developing and administering the various educational programs for which it is responsible, my Department consistently seeks the views and advice of educational authorities, expert consultants, professional organisations and educational interest groups. In a broad sense, the informed views of these groups help the Department to determine prevailing public attitudes and opinions, and to take these into account. it has not, however, been my Depart ment 's practice either to conduct itself or commission outside bodies to undertake opinion polls in the more limited sense, e.g., seeking reactions from sample groups by the use of door-to-door canvassing and similar methods. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Regulation 85 ( 1 ) (a) of the Student Assistance Act 1 973 requires a beneficiary to notify the Department of Education within seven days if he discontinues any part of the approved course he is undertaking and provides a penalty for failure to do so. Between 15 October 1974 when this Regulation became effective and 31 May 1979 the 1979 the following numbers of former TEAS beneficiaries have been prosecuted for failure to comply with this particular provision. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
It is not possible to provide information in respect of payments to individual government schools except in relation to grants made under the Special Projects (Innovations) Program and the Disadvantaged Schools Program of the Schools Commission. The Commonwealth Government provides bulk funding to the Victorian Government for Government schools program to disburse on a needs basis as it sees fit. 
Funds for non-government schools in the Electoral Division of Scullin in the period in question are made available under programs administered by the Department of Education and the Schools Commission: 
Programs administered by the Department of Education: Funds administered by the Department of Education were made available under the following acts: 
States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act 1971; States Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1969; States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Act 1971; States Grants (Schools ) Act 1 972. 
Payments made under these acts are set out in reports which were tabled in the Senate on the dates listed below: 
States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act 1971: 27 October 1972; 12 December 1973; 28 October 1975; 4 May 1976. 
States Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1969: 13 December 1972; 12 March 1974; 5 December 1974. 
States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Act 1971: 17 May 1972; 3 April 1973; 23 July 1974; 29 May 1975. 
States Grants (Schools) Act 1972: 12 November 1974. 
Programs administered by the Schools Commission: 
Payments for 1974-1978 are set out in my reply to Question No 1044 asked by  Senator Button  (Senate Hansard, 21 February 1979, pages 144-147). 
Information in respect of 1 979 is set out in the table below: 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Maximum living allowances under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme are payable where the Adjusted Family Income of the student's parents does not exceed $8,700. This rate is known as the Marginal Adjusted Family Income (MAFI). For Adjusted Family Incomes in excess of the MAFI the maximum allowance is reduced by $2.50 for each $ 10 of additional income. 
The MAFI was increased for the 1978 academic year from $8,200 to $8,700, an increase of 6. 1 per cent. 
The MAFI is reviewed annually in the budget context in the light of movements in relevant indicators. 
and (5) All students who have to live away from home to undertake their courses at a tertiary institution are eligible for the higher 'living away from home ' rate of allowance and for fares allowance. Country students would generally qualify for this concession. The maximum level of allowance for dependent students 'living away from home' for 1979 is $45.15 per week (including the transfer of family allowance). This compares with the maximum allowance of $29.28 per week (including the transfer of family allowance) for dependent students living 'at home'. In addition, a fares allowance is paid for students living away from home to cover the cost of three return trips a year between the institution and the student's home. 
Universities in Western Australia 
-On 23 May 1979  (Hansard page  2246)  Mr Dawkins  asked the following question, without notice: 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Education to recommendation 5.33 of the Williams Report, which states:  . . that the Tertiary Education Commission discuss with the University of Western Australia and Murdoch University and the Western Australian PostSecondary Education Commission an integration of the activities of the two universities. 
Can the Minister explain the inconsistency between that recommendation and the statement of the Prime Minister on 22 March in which he alleged that the report had suggested the merger of Murdoch University and the University of Western Australia? I am sure the Minister will understand the difference between the integration of activities and merger. Will the Minister take into account the strong educational arguments in favour of the maintenance of separate institutions and not compel the two universities to merge? 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question : 
As the honourable member has pointed out, Recommendation 5.33 of the Williams Report uses the phrase 'integration of activities' rather than the word 'merger' which was used in the speeches in both Houses of Parliament when the Report was tabled. The relevant portion of the speeches was a brief summary of certain major themes in the Report and the use of a different word to describe the Recommendation in this context did not imply any pre-judgment of the issue. I would point out that the recommendation is not that the two universities in question be merged, integrated or amalgamated but merely that an integration of activities be discussed between relevant State and Commonwealth bodies. 
This recommendation along with all other Williams Report recommendations will be considered by a Ministerial Committee set up for the purpose. The Committee will certainly take account of all arguments and representations which are relevant to the Recommendations and will have particular regard to the findings of the inquiry recently instituted by the Western Australian Government into the future of Murdoch University. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) (a) The working party set up by the Australian Education Council to deal with tertiary education issues will hold its second meeting in June 1 979 and is expected to report to a special Council meeting to be held 28-29 June 1979. The latter meeting has been called primarily to examine the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training (the Williams Committee). 
The working party of senior officers established to compile information on the transition from school to work is expected to submit its report to the special meeting of the Australian Education Council referred to above. 
The working party dealing with the schools area reported to the February meeting of the Australian Education Council. It was agreed that consultative arrangements between the Schools Commission and State Education Departments would be strengthened, both in regard to the preparation of Commission reports and the administration of Commission programs. The Schools Commission is proceeding along these lines. 
I am aware that the Queensland Association of Academic Staff in Colleges of Advanced Education wrote to the Queensland Minister for Education expressing its opposition to the introduction of shared funding for tertiary education. The Commonwealth has made no such proposal. 
The Commonwealth is continuing its discussions with the States on possible improvements in co-operative arrangements across the whole field of education. Issues in tertiary education are expected to be discussed at the special June meeting of the Australian Education Council, when comments from the tertiary education working party (see 1 (a) above) are expected to be available. The Commonwealth will continue to exercise its national responsibilities in education by helping to ensure that the highest possible standards are maintained in institutions at all levels. 
Commonwealth Pesticides Co-ordinator  (Question No.4112) 
I appreciate the concern of the honourable member for the work of Radio Australia, and the Government supports that concern completely. Work on the limited restoration of the Shepparton installation has now been completed and in February 1978 the Government approved the restoration of the Cox Peninsula installation. Some limited repair work had been undertaken and some limited transmissions have taken place to improve the situation. There are other major developments, but because of the presentation of the Budget tonight I am prevented from making a precise announcement about the details of work to be undertaken in the next year. I can assure the honourable member that the Government has decided that the work will go ahead in the current financial year. We share his concern that Australia's standing, as it is represented by Radio Australia, should be improved in the region. 
Pursuant to section 52 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act 1 972 1 present the annual report on the operation of that Act for the year ended 31 December 1978. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972 I present the report of the Schools Commission on financial assistance granted to each State during the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
I present the following paper for the information of honourable members: 
Australian Postal Commission- Service and Business Outlook for the year 1 979-80. 
The publication in respect of the Australian Telecommunications Commission is not yet available. I am advised by the Commission that it will be available soon. I will present it for the information of honourable members at that time. 
Ordered that the paper be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has not funded any research programs into the effects of mass media communication on Australian society during the periods mentioned. It has, however, commissioned the following surveys: 
Ethnic Radio Stations 2EA and 3EA. Survey of Greek, Italian and Turkish Communities, Sydney and Melbourne. McNair Surveys Pty Ltd, August 1 975. 
Penetration of FM Radio Receivers, Postal and Telecommunications Department, May 1978. 
Penetration of Television Sets with Built-in UHF Capability, May 1978. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board (ABCB) and the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal (ABT) has carried the following research since 1975: 
ABCB 
1 975- 76-' Attitudes to Television ' 
Field Survey in Melbourne, covering the topics of satisfaction with television control of broadcasting and other specific areas. 
Attitudes to Advertising on the ABC ' 
Telephone Survey of Vie wers ' Panel. (The Viewers' Panel is a group of persons recruited during field surveys, who are available to give their opinions on broadcasting). 
ABT 
1976- 77-'Television and the Public' 
Mail Survey of Viewers' Panel. 
This covered children's television, Australian content, advertising and topics of relevance to the SelfRegulation Inquiry in progress at the time. 1 977- 78-'Television and Children ' 
A survey of 400 children and their parents in four major capital cities. 
The survey concerned parental knowledge and control of children's viewing habits. The report is being printed. 
Television and The Public- The News' 
Public opinion of television news, Sydney 1978. The report is near to publication. 1978- 79- 'Expectations of Broadcasting in the Rural Community'. 
Three surveys in rural areas aimed at investigating the extent of satisfaction with broadcasting. 
The first stage in Ayr, North Queensland has been conducted. The other two (in Leeton, NSW and the Pilbara, WA) have been postponed due to financial considerations. 
No research by other organisations has been funded during this period by either the ABCB or the ABT. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart. 
and (3) The boundaries used by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and Telecom exchange area boundaries do not coincide. Precise answers to these parts of the question are therefore not practicable but the percentages shown are Telecom 's best estimates of the information sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staff levels in all Australian Broadcasting Commission facilities in the Sydney area are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The exposure of posters and other advertising matter in the background during sporting telecast is provided for specifically in Section 100(10) of the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
In view of Section 100 ( 10), the question of extra-legal advertising does not arise. 
The exposure of anti-smoking advertising matter in terms of Section 100 ( 10) of the Act would be a matter between the anti-smoking group and the sporting authorities concerned in the events being telecast. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. The position as stated in the report reflects the situation as at 30 June 1 977. 
2GB Sydney, 2CA Canberra, 2WL Wollongong, 2 AD Armidale, 2LM Lismore, 2MW Murwillumbah; 3AK Melbourne, 3AW Melbourne, 3DB Melbourne, 3XY Melbourne, 3BA Ballarat, 3GL Geelong; 4BH Brisbane, 4BK Brisbane, 4AK Oakey, 4GG Gold Coast, 4GY Gympie; SAD Adelaide, SDN Adelaide,5PI Crystal Brook,5SE Mount Gambier; 6PM Perth, 6AM Northam, 6KG Kalgoorlie, 6GE Geraldton, 6VA Albany; 7HO Hobart, 7EX Launceston. 
2RG Griffith; 4AY Ayr, 4GC Charters Towers; 6KY Perth, 6IX Perth, 6BY Bridgetown, 6WB Katanning, 6TZ Bunbury, 6CI Collie, 6NA Narrogin; 7HT Hobart 
2AY Albury, 2GF Grafton, 2GN Goulburn, 2CH Sydney, 2 AD Armidale, 2 RE Taree, 2MO Gunnedah, 2TM Tamworth, 2GZ Orange, 2NZ Inverell, 2MW Murwillumbah, 2LM Lismore; 3BO Bendigo, 3SR Shepparton, 3UL Warragul, 3YB Warrnambool, 3TR Sale; 4CA Cairns, 4TO Townsville, 4MK Mackay, 4GG Gold Coast; 7LA Launceston. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The metropolitan telephone zones in Sydney and Melbourne embrace all exchanges within a radius of approximately 24 km measured from the GPO and in the case of Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart all exchanges within a radius of approximately 16 km from the GPO. 
The average, minimum, and maximum distances between exchanges in each capital city and the GPO are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Additional equipment is currently being installed at Hastings Exchange and will be available for new connections from July 1979. 
The 200 lines being installed will satisfy all waiting and new applicants until September 1 979. 
A further 200 lines will be available by September 1979. 
Twenty per month. 
The present level of demand will reduce once the majority of houses have telephones. Demand in 1979-80 is expected to be 280 but is likely to fall to 75 per annum in subsequent years. A further 400 lines are planned to be available by July 1 980 which will cater for demand until 1985. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The extent to which it is possible to present programs of special interest to specific communities depends on the availability of television material from the homeland. 
Malta has only a black and white television service. However, on Sunday 2 May a segment of special interest to the Maltese community was included in the program. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
In real terms, the estimated total expenditure by Australian universities on research was $78 million in 1966; $91 million in 1973; $100 million in 1975 and $98 million in 1 977 ( December quarter 1978 cost levels). 
The table below shows the identifiable expenditure for 1977 on research as a percentage of recurrent grants in all Australian universities. They do not take account of the fact that operating expenditure on academic salaries, libraries, equipment and general administration inevitably contains a significant but unidentifiable research component. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My colleague and predecessor, the  Hon.  Eric Robinson issued a press release on 24 November 1977 stating in part that he had inititated 'an examination by Telecom into ali the factors involved in reducing charges, not only into the area close to Sydney but also into the total question of extending local call access to other areas around Australia where this would be appropriate'. In fact the review covered the whole of Australia involving some 2,400 telephone calling zones and not just the areas adjacent to the metropolitan districts. 
This is the same study which I mentioned in my answer on 6 March 1979 to the Member for Macquarie. I presented the results of the study in the House on 5 June 1979. The changes proposed are the first of a major nature since the 1960 group charging zone, incorporating the extended local service area plan, was established. Telecom pointed out at the outset of the review that quite detailed traffic, commercial and technical studies were involved throughout the whole of Australia. This included complex numbering, technical, switching and charging considerations. The time involved in completing the study was not unexpected and, as the results show, was quite justified. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) In 1977-78 and assuming the same local and trunk traffic levels, a subsidy of $660m would have been required to compensate for call revenue lost. Clearly though, charging all calls at either the local call rate or at a uniform rate for all calls would distort the current levels of local and trunk traffic calls. In fact, very heavy long term capital expenditure- running into several billions of dollars- would be needed to re-dimension the network to cater for the resultant changes in calling patterns and increased traffic volume on many routes. This capital investment would naturally have to be reflected in a uniform call fee and Telecom has estimated that a call fee of around 47 cents would have to be applied to each local call and 3-minute STD/trunk call to achieve the same trading result as at present. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The names and occupations of all persons who have been appointed to the Australian Postal Commission are as follows: 

 Mr J. J. Kennedy Chartered accountant and businessman 

 Mr R. Graham (deceased) Accountant and businessman 

 Mr D. M. S. Bright Farmer and businessman 

 Mr A. F. Spratt Public servant 

 Mr F. J. Green, C.B.E Public servant 

 Mr G. Slater Union official 

 Mr E. E. Payne Public servant 

 Ms G. Ettinger Consumer organisation executive 

 Mr D. R. Rickard Accountant and businessman 

 Mr E. C. Benness Company director 

 Mr R. B. Lansdown Public servant. 
-On 23 May 1979 the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education a question on notice (Notice Paper, page 5507) concerning research funding in Australian universities. 
In providing information on the honourable  member's  question it was stated in the table entitled 'Identifiable Research Expenditure as a Proportion of operating Expenditure, Australian Universities, 1977' that identifiable research expenditure as a proportion of recurrent expenditure for the University of Sydney was 8 per cent. The correct figure is 13 per cent. 
-This matter is one for the Australian Postal Commission. I have a great deal of sympathy for the views expressed by the honourable member, and indeed by many of my colleagues in this House. I will therefore ask the Postal Commission to give further consideration to the matter because the Apex Club is a great Australian organisation. I think it has claims which, whilst they might not fit within the new guidelines which have been developed by the Postal Commission in this matter, in an historic sense could well be recognised. I emphasise it is a matter for the Postal Commission. I will ask it to review the matter. 
-A lot of interesting ideas have been developed in the honourable member's question but I will not bother myself with commenting on some of them. Even if they were true, they are not the sorts of things about which Ministers speculate, being matters relating to the operations of departments and tribunals. 
I am not going to confirm or deny them. There is no way I can confirm or deny them and they are not the sorts of things that I would confirm or deny. I will simply say that it was the Government's desire to develop a new formula for the licensing of television and radio stations and that when the detail of the revenue resulting from an application of a new formula became known it was clear that the effect on the industry needed further consideration. I have had discussions from time to time with members of the industry, who felt that the present formula is outmoded, unwieldy and unfair to a number of stations. Now that the Budget is behind us I will be able to have those discussions and come forward with recommendations in due course. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Nil. 
) to ( 5 ) Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of the newspaper article concerned. 
The  Chairman  did not act with impropriety. Statements referred to were made during an informal address and sought to identify the realities and interpretations of the Act. 
The Act states that the Tribunal shall renew licences unless such circumstances exist for the licence to be revoked, or if renewal of the licence would be contrary to a provision of the Act. 
Therefore, in the way the Broadcasting and Television Act is phrased, a renewal of licences for periods of one to three years is envisaged except in exceptional circumstances. 
The statement was brought to my attention. I am confident that the  Chairman  made the statement bearing in mind the points outlined in (2 ). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Broadcasting and Television Services (ABC) and the following commercial broadcasting stations: 
New South Wales-2CH; 2GB; 2BE; 2BS; 2GF; 2GN; 2WG; 2KA; 2MO; 2NM; 2NX; 2TM; 2VM and 2 XL. 
Victoria-3AW; 3DB; 3KZ; 3UZ; 3XY; 3BA; 3GL and 3 HA. 
Queensland-4BK; 4AY and 4MK. 
South Australia-5DN; 5KA; 5AU and 5RM. 
Northern Territory-8DN 
Western Australia- Nil. 
Tasmania- 7HT; 7EX and 7LA. 
No commercial television stations have indicated that they are in receipt of material from the South African Embassy. 
The ABC is supplied with material on an irregular basis; commercial broadcasting stations receive material regularly; e.g. 17 stations have indicated that they receive material on a monthly basis; eight on a weekly basis. 
3 ) Press releases, periodicals and occasionally sound tape recordings. 
The material is unsolicited and no charge is made for it. 
I am informed that the South African Government pays for the costs concerned. 
) The Tribunal at present carries out monitoring of commercial radio and television programs on a limited random basis, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no plans, at this stage, to extend the ethnic television service beyond Sydney and Melbourne. It would be the hope of the Government, however, that services of this nature could be provided to as many ethnic communities as possible. In planning the permanent ethnic television service, the Government has as a primary objective the extension of the service on a national basis as quickly as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)Yes. 
Tests have shown the existence in the main of white and brown asbestos in some ABC buildings. Blue asbestos has been found at studios in William Street, Melbourne, but the Department of Health has indicated that it is not hazardous unless worked on in the course of building modifications. Some ceilings are deteriorating at the Gore Hill studios and the ABC is currently carrying out appropriate remedial work. 
Yes, asbestos is potentially dangerous to human health; see answer to ( 1 ) (b) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The decision to close the Seacliff non-official Post Office on 27 November 1978 was not discussed beforehand with local representative bodies. It was not until 20 November 1978 that Australia Post received notice from the non-official postmistress of her intention to resign, with effect from 27 November. This short notice meant that there was insufficient time for the usual advice of closure to be given. 
A notice was displayed in the window of the post office, however, from 20 November 1978 advising customers of the intended closure. 
I am informed by Australia Post that the honourable member's electorate office was advised by telephone on 20 November 1978 of the intended closure of the Seacliff nonofficial Post Office, and that a letter of confirmation, addresed to the honourable member, was forwarded the same day. Unfortunately, due to a misunderstanding, the local 
State member of Parliament was not similarly advised. Subsequently, however, in reply to representations made by him. 1 did explain fully the circumstances of the closure of the Seacliff non-official Post Office. 
Medical Treatment for Ex-servicemen  (Question No. 4216) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) and (b) Yes. 
I am aware of the international standing of the Apex organisation. I am aware also that in 1981 the organisation will be holding its 50th anniversary convention in Geelong, the city in which it was founded. 
Stamps issued in the past, featuring anniversaries of service clubs, were issued by the former Postmaster-General's Department. Since the most recent issue of such a stamp, which was in 1973, there has been a change in the nature of subjects eligible to be featured on commemorative stamps. 
The Australian Postal Commission now has the responsibility for the stamp issue program and the criteria currently applied in determining subjects for commemorative stamps take into consideration the very limited number of such issues which can be accommodated in any year, together with information on public preferences for stamp subjects. The criteria include the requirement that the occasion to be commemorated be of outstanding national importance or of special historical significance, and of general interest to a wide section of the community. 
The Postal Commission gave careful consideration to the question of issuing a stamp to mark the 50th anniversary of the founding of Apex but concluded that the occasion did not meet the relevant criteria. 
I have discussed this matter with the  Chairman  of the Australian Postal Commission and he has agreed to have the decision reviewed by the Commission. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement by the  Chairman  of the Australian Education Council on the Williams report on education, training and employment. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Schools Commission report for the triennium 1979-81, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the report. I also present the Schools Commission report on Commonwealth financial assistance for schools in the Northern Territory for 1980, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the report. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Tertiary Education Commission for the triennium 1979-81, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the report. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. I am happy to say to the most honourable member that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, with the support of the Australian community, has required that 1S6 hours of C classified programs are to be shown primarily in the 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. time slot on commercial television stations. When I say it has the support of the Australian community, I do so on the basis of research which has indicated that approximately 85 per cent of the community polled support that approach by the Tribunal. However, recognising that major sporting events are of wide national interest and, of course, also of interest to children- one believes obviously not harmful to children- the Tribunal has made it clear to stations that such events can be televised in full. However, the Tribunal does expect stations over a period of 12 months to meet the requirement of 156 hours of specially produced children's programs. 
I mention that the recent sales overseas of the product of Australian commercial television stations bear out, I think, the promise that they have been holding out, that is, that the renaissance of Australian films, which all of us in this country have applauded in recent times, can be followed by a renaissance or a flowering of Australian television with shows such as  Against the Wind  and  Prisoner,  which are now being seen by the major station audiences in the United States of America and hailed throughout the world. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Department of Education for 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following table gives details of the percentage of mail delivered in accordance with normal service standards within, and to and from, the Melbourne metropolitan area for the three months prior to the establishment of the first mail centre, in 1975, and for the corresponding period in 1978, following the opening of the Blackburn, Geelong, Ballarat, Bendigo, Seymour and Morwell mail centres. 
MAIL DELIVERED IN ACCORDANCE WITH NORMAL SERVICE STANDARDS 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(i) and (ii) Proportion (expressed as a percentage) of persons aged between 17 and 22 years enrolled in 1973 as attending teachers colleges: 
In 1973 there were 27,625 students enrolled in teachers colleges and not included as enrolments in any other tertiary institutions. It is estimated that all of these students were enrolled full time and that approximately 90 per cent (or 24,860) of them were aged between 17 and 22 years. These would have comprised 1.8 per cent of the 17 to 22 year old population in 1973. 
There were additional students enrolled in education courses in 1973 as follows: 
Dual enrolments in both teachers colleges and other tertiary institutions-Full time 15,995; Part time 834. 
Enrolments in other tertiary institutions only- Full time 10,777; Part time 31. 
These additional student enrolments have not been included in the calculation of the 1.8 per cent above, as they have already been included as university and college of advanced education enrolments in calculation of the Australian 17-22 year old participation rate in the answer to Question No. 3240. 
Proportions (expressed as percentages) of persons aged between 17 and 22 years enrolled in 1973 as attending technical and further education institutions. Table 1 sets out the required information. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistics for 1 976 are not available as records have not been retained. 
The number of Australia Post staff providing postal services at official post offices in the Electoral Division of Shortland on the other relevant dates was as follows: 
The Electoral Division of Shortland is located wholly within the Hunter Postal Division. Within that Electoral Division, Australia Post employs staff only at post offices. 
On the relevant dates for which statistics are available, employment was as follows: 
-The suggestion that the Government had gone cold on the matter of the Australian Broadcasting Commission inquiry has been made in another place. I say to this House and to the people of Australia that this Government is warmer than ever. 
-We are warming up all the time. The Government is as committed as ever to the principle of regular and independent review of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, as happens to the great broadcasting authorities in countries such as the United Kingdom and Canada. The atmosphere in which this review will be conducted will be aided significantly by recent major decisions which the Government has made about funding for the ABC, decisions which will provide a stimulus to creative effort within the ABC and which, for the first time ever, give financial planning certainty to the ABC. I make it quite clear that, contrary to some earlier comments in other places, sufficient funds will be available to conduct a proper and full review of the ABC. I am at the moment considering names, including that of a leading broadcaster with experience overseas, to put to the Government in order that the review might be got under way as soon as may be convenient. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to provide this figure as at 23 November 1978. However, for the 12 month period ending 30 November1978, my Department had received18,724 complaints relating to television interference problems. 
As at 30 November 1978, there were 989 interference complaints outstanding in the Sydney Office of my Department. The delay in investigating these complaints at that time was in the order of approximately5 months. 
, (4) and (5) Staff ceilings are set by the Government in the context of the Budget. They reflect the Government's view of the staffing resources available to Departments and Authorities. The disposition of staff within ceiling limits to particular programs and activities is a matter for Department's management. The staff ceiling approved by the Prime Minister for the Postal and Telecommunications Department for1977-78 was 621 . 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When the CBRS was introduced in July1977 it was realised that in order for the Department to effectively carry out its Regulatory and Licensing responsibility it would be necessary to increase the number of staff engaged in such duties. 
Accordingly, a review was carried out within my Department and additional Inspectors were appointed to cope with the increase in regulatory activities brought about by the introduction of the CBRS. The question of arriving at an adequate number of investigatory officers to regulate the CBRS is a most difficult task, investigatory officers are responsible for the regulation of all radiocommunication services and the investigation of abuses within the CBRS must be seen as only part of this overall function. 
As the service is utilised by a very large number of mainly inexperienced operators it is believed that its proper regulation will best be achieved by encouraging operators to practice self regulatory measures combined with the oversighting role of Radio Inspectors. It will be appreciated that responsible operating practices are essential in order for the service to efficiently share the spectrum with all other radio communication users. 
I am confident that responsible groups within the service such as CREST and the NCRA certainly foster this sense of responsibility and actively encourage operators to practice such self disciplinary measures. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following my Department's survey of submissions received in response to the Discussion Paper, I have received a preliminary report, and draft system standards have been circulated to the industry. The report indicates a spread of views on the merits of an early introduction of standards and whether the British system should now be adopted. 
The submissions are currently being examined in detail, taking into account the merits of competing systems including the Canadian TELIDON system displayed by Canadian experts in Australia in August. When I have received a further report based on these studies, I will provide the honourable member with more information. I am not able to say when this report can be finalised as the responsible staff are currently engaged in preparations for the World Administrative Radio Conference 1979. 
Preparation of the Discussion Paper on the introduction of broadcast teletext, including draft system standards, commenced in October 1978. This was based on earlier study work. 
Applications to transmit teletext test transmissions have been received from the following commercial stations: 
We have been treated to a fairly characteristic display by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  this afternoon. I do not intend to go into every particular misrepresentation in which he has involved himself, but I simply point out that most of what purported to be statements of fact in his speech were far from it. For instance, his statements about relationships between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and people which might or might not have procured jobs or contracts for them are quite wrong, and are known to be wrong, and I do not think they need any more attention from me here. 
I believe that the Australian Labor Party has been overcome by fits of anxiety ever since its disaster in South Australia last Saturday. I believe also that the Labor Party is jealous about the paucity of its showing in matters relating to ethnic affairs in contrast with what we have done since we came to office. We have done things in a variety of areas which were hardly dreamt of in Labor's time. We have devoted the attention of government to ethnic affairs to an extent which no other government has ever devoted itself in the history of Australia. I am also, in a sense, rather delighted that the Leader of the Opposition has taken this opportunity to expose himself and to expose the Opposition for what it is; to expose the Opposition for its utter and complete hypocrisy when one looks at its actual performance in office. One does not only have to look at Labor in the federal sphere: Look at  Mr Wran's  appointment of  Mr Ducker  to a $45,000 a year Public Service Board position, at the very height of the Public Service. If that does not come within the sort of definition of politicisation that the Leader of the Opposition has been advancing today, well nothing does. But I say that appointments by this Liberal-National Country Party Government are a far cry from political jobbery and what the Leader of the Opposition described this afternoon as political corruption. 
I believe that the Opposition has been seeking to stir up trouble among ethnic communities to cover up the fact that it has performed so little in this area by contrast with the performance of the present Government. For instance, I believe the Opposition has been effectively taken to task by the Australian Greek Welfare Society, which is hardly a front for the Liberal Party. In a media release last week, when the Opposition sought to stir issues along, the Australian Greek Welfare 
Society said that it was concerned at several matters which had become confused in the debate following  Mr Petro  Georgiou 's appointment as Secretary to the Ethnic Television Review Panel. The Society said:   . . as to the question of  Mr Georgiou  himself we do not believe or accept that he will engender political partisanship or political control into the area of ethnic television. To our knowledge  Mr Georgiou  has a competent understanding of the nature and problems of ethnic communities in Australian society and we believe that by virtue of academic background and involvement on the Prime Minister's staff in recent years he has gained sensitivity and understanding with respect to problems of public administration. 
The Society anticipates that  Mr Georgiou  will make significant contributions to the work of the Ethnic Television Review Panel to which he is secretary. There can be no doubt about that, and I can personally affirm that from my own long acquaintance with the man. I am absolutely delighted that he has taken on this new position. No man in public life in Australia has done more within the bureaucratic area to encourage the development of services for migrants in this country.  Mr Georgiou,  with his migrant background and brilliant academic and professional career, knows all about the sorts of issues involved. He has studied them in an academic context. He has had experience of government and administration at the highest level and is an utterly appropriate person for this temporary, I repeat, temporary, appointment. He is not even being appointed to a permanent position within the Public Service. It is a temporary appointment which meets with the full satisfaction of the  Chairman  of the Ethnic Television Review Panel,  Mr Frank  Galbally, and it is one which the Australian Greek Welfare Society has greeted. 
It is welcomed not only by the Greeks; the  President  of the Australian Lebanese Association of Victoria has said that his Association strongly supports the appointment. It has full faith in the Panel and looks forward to ethnic television. The Italians, another great ethnic group within Australia, also welcome  Mr Georgiou  's appointment.  Mr Vaccrai,  the VicePresident of the Italian Community Service Fund, endorses the appointment of  Mr Georgiou  as the Ethnic Television Review Panel Secretary and says that it is pleasing to see that a wellqualified migrant is in such an important position. These feelings have been made known to the Government by people of this variety of ethnic backgrounds. If I might go on to mention one more; the  President  of the Australian Yugoslav Welfare Society has also said that that Society fully supports the appointment. It very much appreciates the genuine endeavour of the Government to help establish a strong ethnic broadcasting service which will greatly contribute to better understanding, cohesion and friendship between Australian people. So what the Opposition is up to is exposed for what it is- an attempt, because of the inadequacy of its performance in these areas and its electoral disaster last Saturday, to avoid the fact that it did so little when it was in office. 
Let us look a little more at how Labor did when it was in office. When the Prime Minister made some comment in this House the other day about the way in which the last Labor Government, the Whitlam Labor Government- we all know that after the recent conference nothing has changed about Labor; the leopard does not change its spots and Labor would do it all again- made appointments to the highest positions within the Public Service in Australia, one Opposition member interjected: 'They did it very well, too'. Let us look at what Labor did when it sought to develop ethnic broadcasting in Australia. Labor did not do it as this present Government does, at arm 's length from government. Oh, no. Labor set it in the heartland of politics with full ministerial and departmental control. So much for the idea that we are politicising ethnic broadcasting in Australia. Labor gave it full ministerial control and full political control by a department of State. Stations 2EA and 3EA were set up and operated through the Department. If that was not enough,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  do you know what else Labor did? It appointed a bloke out of the Prime Minister's very office to head that great department of State, the Department of the Media, so that it would complete what it chooses to call the process of political corruption, jobbery and jobs for the boys. The Labor Government appointed a  Mr Spigelman  from outside the Public Servicefrom a position in the office of the Prime Minister- as head of the Department of Media so that, in their terms, they could politicise not only ethnic broadcasting but also, perhaps, the whole of the media of this country. That is the track record of the Labor Government in office. So much for the hypocrisy of the Labor Party and its pathetic cants and hypocrisy in this House this afternoon. 
The Labor Party did not stop at that particular gentleman. It appointed other members of the Prime Minister's staff to high positions in the Public Service. As I have said, this Government has appointed, from the Prime Minister's office, someone to a temporary advisory position within the Public Service. The Labor Government appointed to permanent office at the very top of the Public Service, at least three people who had had a close association with the Prime Minister's office. There was  Mr Menadue  who had been a senior member of  Mr Whitlam  's staff. There were two other members of the Prime Minister's office,  Dr Wilenski  and  Mr Spigelman,  who became heads of department. I say nothing against the particular person. I am simply pointing to the hypocrisy of the performance of the Leader of the Opposition this afternoon. I am interested to see that the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  nodded when I said that. The Australian Labor Party indeed turned political control of broadcasting, when it was in office, into an art form. Who would doubt that it would do it all again? We can be sure that the disasters of three years of Labor Government would be repeated all over again in this country. All recent major decisions of the Australian Labor Party make that obvious. 
I have made an assertion that the Labor Government did so little compared with what this Government is doing in office. This is borne out by the figures. When the Australian Labor Party was responsible for the Budget in 1975-76 it set aside about $330,000 for ethnic broadcasting in Australia. When we came into office one of our first acts was to nearly double that figure. In the next Budget the figure went up to about $570,000, and in the Budget after that we more than doubled the allocation for ethnic broadcasting in Australia; we sent it up to about $1.38m. We then have a figure of $4.7m in the 1979 Budget Estimates- not doubled, not trebled, but many times the allocation. Therefore, is it unfair for me to suggest that the emphasis which the present Government gives to ethnic broadcasting is many times more intense and many times more important than that which was given by the previous Government? 
The Government is setting up and encouraging a variety of approaches to ethnic broadcasting. We are not suggesting that there is only one way that this can be done. Of course, we have carried on the official stations which were established by the Labor Government, that is, the 3EA and the 2EA stations. We have also, through this independent authority called the Special Broadcasting Service, which operates at arm 's length from government, which operates with independence in its day to day operations under an Act of Parliament- unlike anything which was done by the Labor Government- and the Labor Party has the hypocrisy to talk about political control - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I have been reluctant to interrupt the Minister. The Minister may recall that  Mr Speaker  indicated to the House that he would like the language of the House to be appropriate to its status. I would request the Minister to express himself perhaps in a softer term. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the language of hypocrisy is appropriate to the status of the Leader of the Opposition because his whole case today was full of it. I am establishing that case on the facts. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I will do so. I go on to point out that this Government has not only set aside large amounts of Budget funds in order to make it clear that we are prepared to put our money where our mouth is in terms of support for ethnic communities in Australia but also it has set up a variety of approaches which encourage a variety of broadcasting by ethnic people and ethnic communities, through the official stations, through public broadcasting stations, and through efforts that are assisted by the Special Broadcasting Service. I emphasise that this is all done not by the Government, not by department officials, but by independent people in independent authorities. In the very important question of the development of ethnic television, I would emphasise that no final decisions have been made. We have ensured that ethnic communities, and indeed the wide Australian community, will have every opportunity to make their views known. We have set up a research secretariat to service the review panel in order to ensure that over the course of time the Government will be properly advised about those views. This is in marked contrast to the political approach which was used by the present Opposition when it was in Government. 
We have had an odd sneer directed towards the  Chairman  of the Ethnic Television Review Panel. He is a great Australian. He was a lifetime supporter of the Australian Labor Party until he saw the evils of that Party in office. He has been prepared to turn his efforts towards the service of the Australian people and, in particular, to ethnic communities within Australia. He should only be congratulated for that. We shall listen to the views of the Committee, and as a government will consider them in a balanced and fair fashion to ensure that this progress is maintained. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Illegal CB equipment, being equipment which is not authorised for operation as required under Section 6 of the Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1905-1973, is subject to seizure and forfeiture if it is found to be operating or set up for operation. 
There has been no public auction of forfeited CB equipment to date. However, since forfeited equipment is turned to use by the Commonwealth, under Section 7 of the Act, disposal of such equipment by auction is one option which is available to the Commonwealth. This option would be regarded as pre-empted if the equipment concerned failed to meet the equipment standards applicable to the CB service. 
The question of propriety in returning forfeited CB equipment to public use with financial benefit to the Commonwealth does not arise since forfeiture of seized CB equipment by court process is equivalent to the equipment becoming a Commonwealth-owned asset which may be used, scrapped, or disposed of by the Commonwealth, as is appropriate for the particular equipment concerned. 
Uranium: Effects on Health  (Question No. 3501) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Cases similar to that of  Mrs L.  Myers, where a large overcharge for metered calls was included in her telephone bill are rare. No record is available as to the exact number in this category but advice from Telecom Australia indicates that the total adjustments made in respect of all metered call complaints amount to 0.5 per cent of the total bill renditions across Australia. 
The reason why such cases rarely occur is due to the automatic checks which are applied to successive meter readings by Telecom Australia 's computer to ensure that each reading is compatible with the calling pattern previously established by the customer. Doubtful readings are referred for verification and billing is suspended until confirmatory advice or a replacement meter reading is input to the computer system. 
In certain circumstances, however, such as where new connections are involved and a calling pattern has not yet been established, should an incorrect meter reading be recorded in respect of that service, special manual action must be brought into effect to have billing deferred. Where, through human failure, this special deferral action is not taken, the bill based on the incorrect reading is released to the customer. This is what happened in  Mrs Myers'  case and, as happens in such cases, the excess charges were withdrawn and the amount of the bill reduced. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The information required is contained in the following tables: 
For the information of honourable members I now present the Australian Telecommunications Commission Service and Business Outlook for 1979-80. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply to Question No. 4299 given by the Minister for Administrative Services. 
Aborigines in Queensland (Question No. 4347) 
-The Government did agree with the proposition that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal should set standards for Australian content in both radio and television and, in particular, it agreed that there should be increased content for Australian radio stations in the playing of Australian material and material produced within Australia. The implementation of this proposal is a matter for the Broadcasting Tribunal in discussion with interested parties and, of course, the various industry bodies. Those discussions have been under way in recent times. I would expect final decisions about levels and timing to be announced in the relatively near future. But I do underline the fact that this Government certainly supports the proposition, as a general one, that there should be higher levels of Australian content in this area. 
-On 8 March 1979,  Mr Lionel  Bowen asked me the following question without notice: 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It is supplementary to questions asked earlier. Is it a fact that $ 1 4m in licence fees remains uncollected due to the staff shortage in the Minister's Department? Is it also a fact that there are 2,000 unattended complaints of radio interference because of thatstaff shortage? Is it not a fact that an independent review suggested that the Department's staff be increased by 144 but that because of the Prime Minister's interference only 67 were allowed to be employed? In view of the fact that revenue amounting to $14m remains uncollected and that 2,000 complaints are still unattended, I ask the Minister whether he will override the Prime Minister and employ the staff suggested by the independent review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that there is an amount of revenue in the form of licence fees that remains uncollected. It is not possible to assess the amount of revenue involved, though $ 1 4m would represent something in the order of 550,000 licences. It is apparent that there is a discrepancy between the number of CBRS radios imported into the country and the number of licences in force. However, no reliable information on the number of CBRS radios in Australia is available. 
There have previously been industrial disputes in my Department, however additional officers are now being recruited in this area, and the difficulties presently being encountered should be alleviated progressively as additional resources become available. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Curriculum Development Centre 1977-78. An interim 1977-78 report was tabled in the Parliament in March 1979 pending approval from the Minister for Finance of the Centre's form of financial accounts. The final report now contains the Centre's financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on the statements. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the reply to Question No. 4299  (Hansard,  11 September 1979, page 972). 
I am delighted to say that John Andrews, who is an Australian architect of international renown - 
It is a case where the assessor has received another award. He is one of the assessors of our own Parliament House competition, the first results of which were announced last night by my colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory. So now we know that  Mr Andrews,  one of Australia's and the world's leading architects, has been awarded a place in the final six who will go on in the competition for the Intelsat headquarters in Washington to cost about $30m. It is indeed the International Telecommunications Satellite Organisation which has put up the satellite which Australia will be using to begin broadcasting to some remote areas during next year. 
It is true that the honourable member and a number of his colleaguesindeed, a great many of his colleagues from both sides of the House- have made representations to me on the desire of Apex to have a stamp commemorating its fiftieth anniversary. I did indicate to the House on a previous occasion that I would ask Australia Post to have another look at its earlier decision to refuse the application of Apex. Australia Post has had a further look at the application and further discussions with Apex. In view of the extent and depth of the organisation's work in the Australian community, Australia Post has decided to award a stamp to Apex on the occasion of its fiftieth anniversary. As a rider, I add that Australia Post has also agreed to review its stamp issue policy. 
-There are a number of anomalies and oddities in the situation relating to radio communication fees throughout the entire system. These have grown up over very many years. I have asked for a full review of radio communication fees to be undertaken in my Department and for there to be full discussion with affected community groups in the process of this review. It is a complex task and will take some time. The position relating to marine licences is an urgent one and is being treated as a matter of priority. We do need, for instance, to consider the differences between personal and leisure use of these facilities and the use for professional and other related services, and, in particular, the position of those users who are concerned solely with the saving of human life. I can assure the honourable member that that sort of consideration will be of prime importance in the review. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
) I am aware of the article referred to by the honourable member. I am also aware that Postgraduate Awards provided by the Commonwealth are continuing to attract graduates of the highest calibre. As evidence of this, 87 per cent of the people who obtained Research Awards in 1979 held masters or first class honours degrees. The remainder held upper second class honours degrees or equivalent qualifications. 
I have noted  Dr Fenton  's comment in the article referred to, but am unable to comment on the management of his particular project. 
I am not aware of any evidence of a correlation between a so-called 'brain drain' and the level of allowance under Postgraduate Awards. If any evidence is produced to substantiate such a claim, I will be happy to consider it. 
Postgraduate Award holders are not in receipt of a salary, but a scholarship to assist them in gaining a higher degree. The basic allowance of $4,200 per annum is almost double the maximum allowance payable under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme. The Government will keep the level of Postgraduate Allowances under review, but any consideration of increases in allowances must be viewed in the light of the funds available for expenditure on all aspects of education. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Yes; an inspection of post offices was carried out in the Nambucca Heads area of New South Wales on 21 and 22 May1979, by Australia Post Divisional staff from Grafton. The inspection was conducted by two Australia Post staff members and the vehicle used was a six-cylinder Valiant sedan. It was not air-conditioned. 
Not applicable. 
Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness  (Question No. 4558) 
I believe that a question along those lines ought properly be directed to the Minister responsible for Public Service matters or possibly the Minister for Defence rather than to me as the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. 
-That is an interesting and helpful idea. I will ask the Australian Telecommunications Commission to consider it. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to programs of the education commissions for 1980. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question:  ( 1 )-(4) It is important to note that there are two types of symbols in use. One version called Bliss symbols was created and is still being used and taught by  Mr Charles  Bliss, A.M. The other version, Blissymbolics, created by the Blissymbolics Communication Foundation, Toronto, Canada from the original Bliss symbols, was the one being taught in A.C.T. schools. The Foundation began with the assistance and participation of  Mr Bliss  in 1 975. 

 Mr Bliss signed an agreement with the Foundation which related to copyright and gave the Foundation the right to sub-licence the use of the system. The Foundation made some changes to the Bliss symbols and adapted new symbols. This action did not meet with  Mr Bliss  approval, and he has taken legal proceedings against the Foundation for breach of copyright. The Foundation does not accept that either it, or its licensees, have violated copyright in any way, or that its symbols are unauthorised. 
In October 1978, the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor's Office advised the A.C.T. Schools Authority that it might be liable for infringements of copyright if its employees continued to use Blissymbolics without the consent of  Mr Bliss.  The  Deputy  Crown Solicitor recommended that the Authority could obtain consent from both  Mr Bliss  and the Foundation to avoid running the risk of having action brought against it and its teachers. At that time both the Authority and the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor's office had views from only one of the parties to the dispute as information from the Foundation was not available. On 8 November 1978 the Authority advised staff using Blissymbolics to cease using this method until further notice. 
Together with many educational authorities around the world, the A.C.T. Schools Authority has a high regard for Bliss symbols. Many teachers, however, prefer to use the Blissymbolics system which they consider more oriented towards schools use. It should be noted that the Foundation's work and influence have spread from Canada to the United States, the United Kingdom and Europe. No other educational authority, including those in Canada, appear to have taken action to prevent the use of Blissymbolics. 
The A.C.T. Schools Authority is hopeful that it will be able to withdraw its restrictions on the use of the materials. 
After a great deal of consideration over some time, I recently made an announcement in Queensland in the presence of my colleague, the honourable member for the Gold Coast or whatever his electorate happens to be called. I made it clear that the need for decent television on the Gold Coast was well and truly understood, that reception in that area, which not only is one of the most rapidly growing areas in Australia but also, of course, has an identity of its own, is appalling in many parts and that in many other parts Brisbane and Lismore stations are received perfectly adequately. I have decided that we shall call for proposals for translators for the services which are presently providing an imperfect service to the Gold Coast as the best thing to do next in order to get on the Gold Coast television of a quality which will be equal to that received in any other major centre in Australia. I make it quite plain that that does not preclude the possibility of looking later at the feasibility of a local station on the Gold Coast. The whole approach we have adopted in this area is. indicative of the desire of the Government to have more and better television and radio broadcasting for the people of Australia. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Student Assistance Act 1973 I present a report on the operation of the Student Assistance Act 1978. 
I table the report of the working group of officials who were appointed to consider the report and recommendations of the National Communications Satellite Task Force and seek leave to make a statement arising from the Government's consideration of both reports. Printed copies of the reports will be available in a few weeks. In the meantime, a small number of advance copies have been lodged with the Parliamentary Library and the Table Office and are available to honourable members. 
Leave granted. 
Before getting into the substance of the statement, I simply want to give credit to those honourable members of my Communications Committee who have done so much to assist and inspire in this matter, namely, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter),  the  Chairman,  the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  and many other honourable members, in particular from the remoter parts of Australia, who have had such an inspiring role in this matter. I would like also to briefly recount the actions that have been taken since the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Eric  Robinson, announced in late 1977 the establishment of a National Communications Satellite Task Force. 
Since then, the Government has moved responsibly through a series of steps designed to ensure thorough consideration of the issues involved in proposals for the establishment of a domestic communications satellite system for Australia. These steps have involved two series of detailed investigations by two groups of senior officials. The investigations, undertaken both within Australia and overseas, have been structured to elicit community views on the major questions arising from the satellite proposals. 
The first series of investigations took the form of a wide ranging inquiry conducted by the Commonwealth Government Task Force. Launched in December 1977, the Task Force inquiry embraced public hearings in most capital cities and analysis of some 159 submissions from organisations and individuals throughout Australia. Task Force inquiry activity culminated in a report and recommendation to Government presented to this Parliament in September 1 978. 
From the outset, the Government recognised the importance of public participation in consideration of the satellite proposals. The terms of reference for the working group formed to evaluate the Task Force report and recommendations reflected the Government's commitment to the public participation process. Not only was the working group required to undertake further investigations of issues which had been the subject of inquiry by the Task Force but also it was required to encourage public discussion and debate by actively seeking submissions from individuals, community and other interested organisations on those issues. 
The working group entered wholeheartedly into the spirit of commitment to public consultation and debate. During their 10 month consideration of the Task Force report, members of the working group attended three major public conferences on domestic communications satellites. At those conferences papers were presented on all aspects of communications satellites. Discussion themes ranged from expositions on technology to possible effects on employment in fields on which the establishment of a satellite would be likely to impact. All papers were studied closely by the working group. The report of the working group was submitted to me in August this year. It has made a valuable contribution to the range of advice and information available to the Government on proposals for a domestic communications satellite system. 
On the basis of the range of advice and information available to it, the Government has decided in principle that it is in the national interest to establish a national communications satellite system in Australia. In reaching this decision, the potential benefits to Australia of a national communications satellite system have been weighed objectively against the extent and effectiveness of services now available through the terrestrial communications system. The Government has also given very careful consideration to the needs of the community generally; our national, social, economic and security aspirations, and the financial implications of the development of a satellite communications system. 
I need not dwell on the problems of providing communications and associated services in Australia- be they land, sea, air or telecommunications services. Suffice to say that these problems are compounded by the size, distance and population distribution characteristics of this country. It must be conceded that residents of major metropolitan centres are well served by various telecommunications links in and between these centres. It is all too easy for those of us who live in well-serviced, densely populated areas to forget that a significant part of the Australian community lives outside metropolitan centres. Similarly, it is all too easy to overlook, or to remain blissfully oblivious to, the plight of these of our fellow countrymen who are seriously disadvantaged by a lack of communications services and communications-dependent services. We can no longer ignore the rights of our fellow Australians to equitable access to communications facilities and to those services which cannot be adequately provided without such facilities. No longer can a very substantial group of Australians, who have contributed so much to this nation- and particularly to the development of its resources- be treated as second class citizens. 
There are some sobering facts on existing telecommunications and broadcasting services which should be the concern of all honourable members. With regard to telephones: There are at least 40,000 people scattered across our vast continent in small, isolated communities and individual homesteads who have no prospects of being connected to telephone in the faintly foreseeable future. In the case of television: There are about 500,000 people in Australia who do not have a television service at all. Of these, some 120,000 people have little hope of ever gaining a service via terrestrial or conventional means. Another 220,000 people have an Australian Broadcasting Commission service only. Nearly four million Australians have only one national and one commercial service, compared with the three commercial services and one national service accepted as the norm for the majority of the population in the great capitals of this country. 
Almost one million people have a much less than ideal service. It might surprise honourable members to know just how many of these live near major population centres. For these people, the problems are caused either by peculiarities of terrain or by the fact that they happen to live in what are effectively metropolitan fringe viewing areas; in some cases a virtual no-man's-land at the outer perimeters of otherwise overlapping television signals. The situation with radio is little better: 375,000 people live beyond the normal reach of medium frequency ABC stations. Some four million Australians receive only the third ABC network. Even with present plans to extend the ABC's FM service over the next three years, there are no plans for this service to be extended to the Northern Territory or most regional areas in Australia and millions of people are still left out of that service. 
I do not cite these figures with any sense of criticism of our terrestrial communications system. Telecom has developed a system of which we can be justly proud. It compares favourably with that enjoyed by most developed countries. It is a rugged system designed to cope with the vagaries of the climatic extremes and the harshness of terrain experienced in this country. Our terrestrial communications system has developed to its present stage through the wisdom of successive governments and their preparedness to commit a significant proportion of national resources to the provision of essential communications links for commercial and personal purposes. The traditional system does, however, have its limitations. These limitations will not be quickly overcome simply through the allocation of greater financial and physical resources; even assuming the capacity to give higher national priority to the extension or upgrading of communications services. In considering the question of new, and upgrading of existing, services the question of timing is significant. For many Australians, satellite communications offer the only practicable solution to the problems of how to provide any services at all within a reasonable time scale. Similarly, for others, satellite communications hold out the only hope for the improvement of poor services, or for enabling access to wider choice of services. 
A satellite system has some unique characteristics which would enable it to overcome the tyranny of distance and to introduce services which would not otherwise be available. I must emphasise that a satellite system has the capacity to do much more than to overcome some of the more glaring communications difficulties faced by Australians in remote and isolated areas. Recent developments which make it feasible to broadcast direct from satellite to individual homes via small earth stations make it possible to provide: 
A good range of services for those who have none at present; 
Improvements for those who have a poor service; and 
A wider range of services for those who have only a few. 
Besides its potential to meet television, radio broadcasting and telephony needs already referred to, a satellite system would facilitate: 
Additional diversity and resilience to the terrestrial network; 
Quick establishment of essential communications in emergency situations regardless of location; and 
A wider and more flexible network for a range of uses such as transport safety communications services, meteorological and scientific data. 
It would also enable: 
Significantly increased capacity for distribution of bulk high speed data communications, which is of great importance to the growth of business activities in Australia; 
Improved delivery of health and education services to all people away from the main population centres; 
The opportunity for greatly improved communications to Australia's bases in Antarctica; and, finally, 
It would encourage people to live and work in remote areas. 
It is therefore quite misleading to suppose, as is the view in some quarters, that a satellite communications system would benefit only a few people in remote areas. The fact is that a satellite system would bring major benefits to millions of Australians. This assertion is also borne out by the growing demand for an increasing range of telecommunications services between our capital cities and major regional population centres. There is an increasingly unsatisfied demand for broadband channels to facilitate distribution of television programs and high speed data over the existing trunk routes to and from the major metropolitan cities to Adelaide, Perth, Darwin, Hobart and many towns which are effective focal points for access to services for surrounding regional communities. A satellite system would offer particular advantages for these types of services. The same is true for a range of transport, meteorological and scientific applications. Earth stations for the latter would be typically located in remote locations. Clearly such services would benefit all Australians. 
That is recognised by my friend, the honourable member for Bowman. Also the effect of the involvement of Australian industry in a domestic satellite system would be most readily felt and apparent in the more heavily populated areas. 
The Government has made a very full examination of the issues which have had to be taken into account in deciding whether Australia should have its own domestic satellite system. We have searched the world to glean the latest knowledge on space communications systems technology. We have scrutinised overseas experience in adapting satellite technology to meet the burgeoning demand for communications services. We have critically evaluated the real costs involved in a decision to establish a system to meet the particular needs and circumstances of this country. After detailed assessment of information so gained, together with analysis of these and other issues, the majority of members of both the task force and the working group has recommended the introduction of a satellite communications system as early as practicable. Nothing could be gained by now delaying a decision in principle. 
Overseas experience has demonstrated that potential users will be reluctant to commit themselves to a firm indication of their requirements until and unless the Government has made some commitment, at least in principle, to the establishment of a system. The Government is satisfied that the broad requirements for a national satellite system have been adequately identified. Finalisation of the detailed specification of the precise model to meet these requirements requires confirmation of a number of factors- for example, user requirements and the availability of specific technical options. Firm system costings are dependent on resolution of the overall system design. 
The Government believes, therefore, that it is timely to start detailed planning for requirements for our own national communications satellite system. The Government has decided to invite registrations of interest in tendering for such a system from selected organisations with demonstrated capacity in the design and manufacture of communications satellite systems. A satellite project office is to be established with all speed within my Department to set in train the wide range of planning activities necessary. Specialist officers will be seconded from other Government departments and authorities to serve in this office and they will be supported as required by expert private consultancy services. 
In developing a proposal and program for a domestic communications satellite system to meet the particular needs and conditions of Australia, the satellite project office will keep under constant review all relevant aspects such as user requirements, financial implications, social impact, private industry involvement and technological developments. The Government has sought further advice on options for the final body to manage and control the satellite system, the powers and functions which that body should exercise or be responsible for, the options for funding the capital expenditure involved and arrangements to ensure continuity between the activities of the satellite project office and the final management body. It is the Government's wish that private industry will be fully involved in the planning activities carried out by the satellite project office. Also, in any agreement for the supply of a satellite system, the Government will require the greatest possible Australian participation in the program. 
The Canadian Government, through its Department of Communications, will be one of the organisations invited to register its interest. I should express at this stage the gratitude of the Government to the Government of Canada for the co-operation and assistance which it has given through the Department of Communications of Canada to the original task force and subsequently to the working group of officials. I note that  Dr Chapman,  the Assistant Minister responsible for space in Canada, died recently. I pay tribute to him as one of the world's leaders, one of the people who have done a great deal to enhance the knowledge and understanding of communications systems throughout the world. The recent experiments in Australia using the Hermes satellite could not have been contemplated without his work and the facilities made available by the Department of Communications and the technological support of its senior officials. I am told that the Canadian Government is a world leader in the development of domestic satellite systems using relatively low power output from the satellite transponders- devices which amplify signals sent up to the satellite for re-transmission back to earth receiving stations- in conjunction with relatively small and inexpensive earth stations. 
One of the complexities in specifying a system for Australian circumstances will be obtaining a proper correlation between the cost of the satellite and the cost of the earth stations. I should perhaps point out here that the size, weight and cost of a satellite, and the range of services which it might provide, are heavily influenced by the power output of the transponders in the satellite. To put this in non-technical terms, the higher the transponder power output is, the greater is the weight of the satellite and its costs, both to manufacture and to launch into orbit. On the other hand, the higher the transponder power output is, the smaller and less costly the earth stations are although of course in this area technology is constantly changing, as I noticed when I had a look around the world recently. These are not matters on which the Government or I would wish to make any judgment at this stage. By seeking expressions of interest from organisations with world-wide reputations in satellite systems, we will be guaranteeing that we will have the best system that money can buy for our own needs and conditions. 
The cost and the financial impact of a satellite system are, of course, vital matters of concern to us all. The working group estimated that the total capital cost to the government sector of a typical satellite system with a capability of providing telephony and broadcasting services to remote areas would be approximately $2 10m. This figure is premised on assumptions of the need for: Firstly, a space segment of three satellites with two in orbit and one spare on the ground, and two tracking and control stations at a cost of $ 1 14m; and secondly, an earth segment comprising major city earth stations at a cost of $2 1 m with earth stations funded by users, costing $75 m. The working group proposed that the satellite authority be responsible for the space segment and the major city earth stations at an assessed capital cost of $ 135m. Users such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the Department of Transport, the Overseas Telecommunications Commission- OTC- and Telecom would own and fund the costs of the other earth stations. Small earth stations at an installed cost of less than $1,000 each for the reception of radio and television broadcasts at individual homesteads in rural areas would presumably be paid for by the householders concerned. 
As my honourable friend suggests, the cost could be a lot less. I expect that the demand will spread like wildfire throughout the country and there will be hundreds of thousands of these in demand. When that occurs obviously the price will go down dramatically. On this basis the capital funds required by the satellite authority would be approximately $135m. The Government has made no decision at this stage on how these capital costs would be financed. It would, however, be feasible to consider some arrangement whereby the Government would provide, say 35 per cent of the total as equity capital, with the balance of 65 per cent being debtfunded by borrowings. Under this normal and financially responsible mix of equity capital and borrowings- assuming that no return would be expected on invested capital until towards the end of the life of the first generation of satellites-the call on the Budget would be greatly reduced. Assuming a satellite to be launched -for the figuring, I indicate that this is not any firm decision-at the end of 1984, the Budget funding on the basis set out above would be limited to $42m, distributed over three years with funding of $9. lm in 1982, $ 17.1m in 1983, and $ 15.8m in 1984. 
This approach would assume a satellite revenue earning capacity sufficient to amortise the borrowings after proper allowance had been made for all operational costs, including depreciation. Assumptions of revenue earning capacity have been made in the light of preliminary indications of full time transponder usage requirements by the following: The Australian Broadcasting Commission would initially want  5V2,  rising to 6'/2 during the life of the satellite; the Department of Transport, two; Telecom, an initial use of two, possibly rising to three; OTC, two; commercial broadcasters, three within existing broadcasting policies and practices. Revenue flows based on the above usage indicate that any satellite organisation would be in a position towards the end of the first generation satellites to fund the next generation of satellites with little or no demand on the Budget and to start to pay a dividend on equity capital. An additional demand on the Budget would come from the funding of the national broadcasting and television service, expected to average about $3m a year over the period 1985 to 1992, and from the Department of Transport averaging $4m a year over the period 1985 to 1988 with offset savings in other years. 
I would reiterate the indicative nature of these projections on capital and revenue flows. As already pointed out, more definitive projections will be subject to planning activities and assessments of the satellite project office. The figures cited today are based on tested and conservative assumptions on the operational life of a satellite system, charging rates for transponder time, interest rates and capital costs. My advice is that the figures used reflect a cautious approach which is responsible in the circumstances. There are other factors which could significantly influence the present assessment of costs and charges. For example, the reliability of space systems is such now that it is possible to consider the sale of transponder capacity on the second satellite instead of keeping it free for emergencies and as a back-up to possible failures on the primary satellite. It is important to keep in mind the financial impact on the overall public sector. For the years to 1992, it has been estimated that Telecom could incur additional net capital and operating costs of from $70m to $80m to provide telephony services to remote areas by satellite. As this level of additional costs would have an effect on even a large organisation like Telecom, it would be important to decide where these costs should be borne. 
I have given the above financial impact figures merely to indicate that a domestic communications satellite would not make the demand on the Budget which has been suggested in some quarters. One view which seems to have obtained a certain amount of public exposure is that there should be a cost-benefit study made relying on the continuing development of the terrestrial system as opposed to establishing a satellite system. I believe there are major weaknesses in this approach. One major flaw is the assumption that a satellite communications system would offer similar services to the terrestrial system now provided by Telecom. The Telecom system is developed around a telephone network which provides each subscriber with- an outlet to all other subscribers through an expensive and diverse switching system. It would not be possible to contemplate any alternative for existing major uses of that switching network system. A satellite communications system should be seen as complementary to the terrestrial system; with each system having its preferred applications. The two systems must, of course, be properly integrated to achieve the most effective communications network for Australia. There is also the misconception that any realistic comparative costing could be undertaken at this stage as between the two possible methods of communication. For example, there are, as I have said above, many people so remote from telephone exchanges who cannot possibly be offered a telephone service- and even in some cases, a television or radio service via the traditional network- within the foreseeable future. Also, it would not be possible to indicate with any degree of confidence the level of costs required to widen existing limited choices of television and radio services in certain areas. 
What has to be assessed, or the issue on which a judgment has to be made, is whether the extra capital funds to establish a domestic satellite system are justified to bring services to those who are not receiving services, and to add the dimension of choice to those who have little or no choice at present. This applies also to the introduction of additional transport, safety, health, educational and scientific services which are beyond the capabilities of the present system. I believe that, on the indicative figures I have quoted, any fair-minded Australian would say that the relatively modest expenditures involved, distributed over a number of years, would be justified on a comparison of benefits to costs which takes account of the social benefits involved. 
A satellite system has the potential to improve dramatically broadcasting services throughout Australia. Many improvements could be achieved within existing broadcasting policy and practices but there are implications for some policies if the full benefits of a satellite system are to be realised. These implications will be studied carefully in consultation with the broadcasting industry, viewers and listeners. I have repeatedly stressed that the Government will not make decisions which fail to recognise the importance of regional television services. We will certainly not be a party to developments which would allow any one broadcasting interest to control commercial television in this country. 
There have been some expressions of concern about possible effects of a domestic satellite on employment in Australia. Both the task force and the working group considered the matter carefully. In the light of overseas experience, reports by both groups of officials concluded that a domestic satellite system would have no net adverse effects on employment. The working group identified the potential for a significant number of employment opportunities given the provision for a level of Australian content in the development of the system. The working group report, of course, cited the manufacture of earth station equipment in Australia, the installation, operation and maintenance of equipment and services such as education and community organisations using satellite links as possible areas where new employment opportunities could arise. 
-They would. 
-They most decidedly would, and any suggestion - 
-Yes-could arise. Putting in the most modest possible sense, the clear picture from overseas is that this sort of system will create activity and will create jobs. It must also be remembered that connections to the switched Telecom network will continue to be implemented primarily by traditional terrestrial means. Indeed, this House will recall my recent announcement of a major updating program to convert some 90,000 manual telephone subscribers in rural areas to automatic operation over the next decade. 
This decision which we are announcing today launches Australia into space age technology, and industry will be able to reap the benefit of the investment which has gone into space research to develop communications satellite technology over the years. Those people who have had experience of natural or man-made disasters will, I am sure, be in no doubt that one of the greatest assets to have in such an emergency is the facility quickly to re-establish broken communication links. The decision to proceed with the planning for a domestic satellite system puts Australia on the threshold of a great new era in communications in this country. It allows us to join in one of the greatest technological innovations in communications history. This decision will free Australia of many of the earthbound constraints upon the development of communications services which have kept so many of our people disadvantaged for so long. It will propel domestic communications in this country into the space age, to give down to earth, every day advantages to millions of Australians. 
One of the most moving experiences in my public life has been to see the astonishment and delight of people from remote areas when they realise what a domestic satellite can mean to them and their families. This decision will, in a very real sense, help to dispel the distancemental as well as geographical- between urban and regional dwellers, between the haves and the have nots in a communications society. It gives us the opportunity to make a supreme effort of will to use the latest available communications technology to weld our scattered population into one nation; to foster a sense of unity that will make us a great nation.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this decision demonstrates and reinforces the Government's commitment to provide all Australians with the best possible communications services. We will not renege on this commitment. The Government will not allow this country to be bypassed by progress. We will ensure that the benefits of progress will be passed on to our people for what they can mean to their own lives and to life in Australia. I present the following paper: 
National communications satellite system- Ministerial statement, 18 October 1979. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The launching of a domestic satellite, while it could allow Teletext-type information to be transmitted to remote locations out of range of terrestrial transmitters, would be unlikely in itself to lead to a truly national Teletext system in Australia inasmuch as any transmissions to most homes would need to be through local television stations. I refer the honourable member to my answer on 18 September 1979 to the House of Representatives Question upon Notice No. 3332 concerning the general status of teletext broadcasting in Australia. 
It is now technically possible to display pages of information on any television screen currently in operation in Australia given the required transmission and appropriate television receiver adaption unit. A satellite system would simply extend the area of coverage. 
The impact of a national satellite system on employment was considered in the Report of the National Communications Satellite Task Force and I refer the honourable member to pages 77-79 of that Report. 
The Government's decision to introduce a national communications satellite system announced by me today clearly envisages that consultation and planning be undertaken with respect to any employment effects attributable to the satellite system. The matter of planning for the introduction of new technology more generally is currently being studied by the Committee of Inquiry into Technological Change in Australia. 
Yes. 
1 have always attached great importance to the complementary roles that the terrestrial system and a satellite system would need to play if a satellite system were to be introduced. This is the experience overseas and the Government would require the maximum coordination of planning to achieve the best practicable telecommunications services for all Australians. 
Clearly, Telecom has had reservations about the early introduction of a domestic satellite system in relation to services coming within its own area of responsibilities together with its own view of resource priorities and availability. It is appropriate that the Government take the broadest view of telecommunications developments of all types for the people of Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the statement I made in the House today. 
2 ) and ( 3 ) See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It would not be technically and operationally possible to use a domestic satellite to transmit news stories or any other type of signal 'from anywhere in the world to anywhere else in the world ' as the honourable member suggests. 
It is likely to become practicable for complete newspaper pages to be transmitted between Australian cities using either terrestrial or domestic satellite telecommunications channels. Arrangements for doing this as they affect journalists, sub-editors and compositors would be a matter for the respective newspaper proprietors. 
I am not aware of any estimates of people becoming redundant due to the introduction of such technology. 
The technology of electronic printing should be distinguished from that of the transmission medium whether terrestrial or satellite. The Committee of Inquiry into Technological Change in Australia established by the Government is undertaking a wide ranging study of the impact of technological change. 
For the information of honourable members I present an index to the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The Sydney telephone charging zone consists of the land area enclosed by an arc of 24 km radius drawn from the GPO. Surrounding this zone are 6 outer metropolitan zones in the land area enclosed by an arc drawn at about 40 km from the GPO. Calls within a zone and between adjoining zones are charged at the local rate. 
If the centre of the Sydney charging zone were deemed to be Parramatta and if the same radii were used to determine the Sydney zone (24 km) and the outer metropolitan areas (40 km) then approximately 40,000 additional services would obtain local call access to the Sydney zone. 
In drawing the boundaries in this fashion approximately 160,000 services would be transferred from the Sydney zone to the outer metropolitan zones and whilst retaining local call access to the Sydney zone would lose significant local call access to other areas. The losing areas concerned are served by the exchanges of Mona Vale, Terry Hills, Narrabeen, Dee Why, Harbord, Balgowlah, Coogee, Maroubra, Matraville, Kurnell, Cronulla, Miranda and Sutherland. 
1 ) (b) If the radius of the outer metropolitan area were extended from 40 to 75 km a further 85,000 customers approximately would obtain local call access to the Sydney zone. 
and (3) Under the existing 7-digit numbering system, the proposals would involve wide spread number changes to existing Sydney services to enable the extra exchanges to be incorporated in the Sydney local call area. Many subscribers would be seriously inconvenienced in both business and domestic matters by such a change. 
The costs of introducing the proposition would be approximately- 
using Parramatta as the centre of the arc initial cost (including engineering, directory and administration)- $5.0m; annual call revenue loss-$ 1 .7m. 
based on Parramatta but with a radius of 75 km initial cost (including engineering, directory and administrative)- $7.5 m; annual call revenue loss- $4.9m. 
An alternative solution would be to introduce 8-digit numbering in Sydney to accommodate the enlarged local call area. 
Without producing a detailed plan, accurate costs of this alternative are difficult to estimate but it is doubtful whether it would be less than $20m at today's prices and would probably take between 7 and 10 years to implement. 
Naturally, the Sydney area could not be extended in isolation and similar treatment would have to be extended to other capital cities and country areas. This would require a re-drawing of the charging plans for telephone calls throughout Australia and would be a long and extremely costly process. 
On the other hand, the recently announced Community Access 80 scheme will amongst other things extend low rate access to the Sydney zone (9c for 3 minutes 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily, 9c for 3 minutes 9 p.m. to 8 a.m. daily) for approximately 76,000 customers in the areas adjoining the outer Sydney metropolitan zones without disadvantaging existing customers. The scheme will also provide similar benefits to subscribers around the other metropolitan areas, as well as rural subscribers in many areas throughout Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The National Telecommunications Network is dimensioned to satisfactorily meet the demands of customers at the busiest time of the day. During the busy hour of the day the average number of simultaneous calls that the network is capable of handling is shown in Table 1 below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Preliminary planning for the new post office has been carried out. Further progress is dependent upon the outcome of impending negotiations on a submission for development of the site, which is in the hands of the Minister for the Capital Territory. Harmony between the component sections of the multi-purpose development will be of fundamental importance. 
Funds will be available when construction is to commence (see (2) above). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested is set out in the following tables, figures are shown in financial years to 1977-78. Telecom Australia advises that details for 1978-79 are not available as the accounts for that year have not been finalised. 
I know that many members of the Opposition would wish that the satellite was just pie in the sky, but they know very well that this is an area in which the Government understands the communication needs of remote and rural Australia in a way in which the previous Government never did. I also point out that not only have we decided in principle that Australia should have a domestic communications satellite, but also at the same time we have agreed with Telecom on an accelerated program for the conversion of manual telephone exchanges to automatic exchanges throughout Australia. That means that by the mid-1980s nearly all manual telephone exchanges will be converted to automatic and nearly all those people who have no service will be provided with one. That program will cost over $500m. It will be funded by Telecom and it will proceed. I will examine where the particular areas mentioned by the honourable member fit into the program and give him an answer as soon as possible. 
Pursuant to section 53 of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946 I present the annual report of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission 1979. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Similar legislation to this Bill has, in previous years, provided for specific purpose grants by the Commonwealth to the States in respect of government and non-government schools in the States. For 1980 this Bill includes, for the first time, grants in respect of government and nongovernment schools in the Northern Territory in addition to those in the States. Earlier this year the Schools Commission prepared two reports for the 1980 calendar year, one concerning schools in the States and the other concerning schools in the Northern Territory, which were tabled in Parliament on 30 August. 
The Government accepted those recommendations of the Commission which responded to the guidelines for schools in the States, but agreed to a subsequent request from the New South Wales Government to transfer some $6m from its general capital to general recurrent allocations. However, the Schools Commission also included amongst its recommendations  some concerning longer term funding arrangements which went beyond the guidelines for the next program year of 1980 with which this Bill deals. The Government will be considering these recommendations in the context of developing policy and financial guidelines for the Commission 's programs after 1980. In addition, the Government has decided that the Commission's recommendations concerning school/work transition and youth policy will be looked at in the context of the Government's ongoing consideration of possible initiatives in these areas. In reporting on the Northern Territory the Schools 
Commission recommended that additional loadings should be applied to take account of higher costs in the Territory. The Government has not included these loadings in the approved specific purpose grants since allowance had already been made for them in general purpose grants made to the Northern Territory. 
In the Bill, provision is made for the continuation in 1980 of the same programs that have operated under the present legislation for both government and non-government schools. The general resources programs are for general recurrent grants, including short term emergency assistance for non-government schools catering for country children, and building and equipment grants. The specific purpose programs are for child migrant education, disadvantaged schools and students in disadvantaged country areas, special education for handicapped children including children living in institutions, services and development and special projects. There has been a broadening of the provisions within the multicultural education program to provide for national level projects, to facilitate the program's administration and to encourage schools to be more responsive to the multicultural needs of all children. The previous objective of fostering community language teaching will also be retained. 
Provisions relating to the administration of the special projects program have now reverted to those existing for 1978 and previous years. This follows requests from the Government of Western Australia that such a change should be made. In the schedules to the Bill, schedules 1 to 10 give details of allocations to individual programs for 1 980 and are adjusted to June 1 979 prices, except for the non-government schools general recurrent and migrant programs which include some allowance for estimated future cost increases. The estimated cost of the 1980 programs, as supplemented, is $68 lm. The grants for 1980 will be further adjusted in subsequent legislation for cost movements to the end of 1979 and for increases in the salary and wage components of recurrent grants during 1980. 
In relation to the 1979 programs in the States, Schedule 1 1 in the Bill reflects cost adjustments for the salary and wage components of recurrent grants from December 1978 prices to June 1979 prices. In accordance with established practice, the non-government schools general recurrent program also includes final provision for cost increases to the end of 1 979. The additional cost of these adjustments is $ 1 5m. Amending legislation will be introduced during the autumn 1980 sittings of the Parliament to finalise the adjustment of 1979 grants. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
That was yet another very statesmanlike question from my honourable friend. I am able to confirm that there are still too many Australians who are beyond the reach of any television signal or beyond the reach of all television signals but a single ABC television signal. As the honourable member knows, it is only satellite transmission which, in the fairly near future, will be able to overcome the gravest problems of people in remote and rural areas of Australia. In the meantime, I will continue to encourage all those responsible for the arrangements relating to the televising of sporting events to ensure that they do their best to see that all Australians who are presently within the limits of coverage get these great events. I can add only that they are matters which lie between independent commercial organisations and the ABC. I have raised this matter on a number of occasions and I will continue to do so. 
It is my understanding that for the moment neither the Australian Broadcasting Commission nor the commercial organisations which telecast sport have decided that they are prepared to telecast Sheffield Shield cricket this season. I will inform the ABC of the honourable member's interest in this matter. However, it is my understanding that the matter has been seriously considered by all broadcasting organisations. They have decided that at the moment it is not in their particular interests to broadcast Sheffield Shield cricket. Nevertheless, I will convey the honourable member's view to the ABC. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time.  (Quorum formed).  This Bill provides for grants amounting to $225.3m to the States for 1980 for the capital and equipment programs of universities and colleges of advanced education and for the recurrent and capital funding of technical and further education. In addition, the Bill provides for grants amounting to $6.4m to the 
Northern Territory for 1980, for advanced education and TAFE recurrent purposes and for major building projects in relation to the provision of tertiary education. In order that the Northern Territory be funded under the same arrangements as apply in the States the Bill also provides $2.8m for advanced education recurrent purposes in the Northern Territory for 1 98 1 . The States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Act 1978 provided grants to the States for universities, colleges of advanced education and TAFE institutions for 1979 as well as recurrent grants for universities and colleges of advanced education for 1980 and 1981. 
The grants provided for in the Bill are consistent with those announced by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in the Senate on 16 October. However, in accordance with established procedures, appropriate adjustments have been made for movements in costs to June 1979, both for the programs now approved and for programs covered under the existing legislation. The Bill puts into effect arrangements relating to the consideration of new teaching developments in universities and colleges of advanced education which have been agreed to by the Australian Education Council and endorsed by the Government. Under the present Act, the Tertiary Education Committee is required to approve, for funding purposes, all courses of advanced education; it has exercised control over major new developments in universities through its financial recommendations. The Bill introduces a new system under which universities and advanced education authorities, subject to State requirements for co-ordination, may introduce new courses of study which do not fall within classes declared by the Minister on the advice of the Tertiary Education Commission. It is intended that these classes will cover new developments of national significance involving major financial or educational implications or potential duplication among the three sectors. The Bill gives the Commission a discretion to disapprove, for funding purposes, courses involving new teaching developments of this kind. It also provides that notice of any disapprovals by the Commission should be tabled in the Parliament; this provision ensures that the operation of these sections is subject to public scrutiny. 
The Bill provides a definition of courses of advanced education which is necessary in view of the new arrangements for teaching developments. The definition recognises the responsibilities of the States for the accreditation of these courses but provides that the courses be undertaken for awards of a kind determined by the 
Minister on the recommendation of the Tertiary Education Commission. It is intended that the kinds of awards determined by the Minister will be the categories currently recognised by the Australian Council on Awards in Advanced Education. Under the existing legislation, payments of advanced education building grants to the States, must be transmitted to the colleges concerned without undue delay, despite the fact that some projects may run ahead of schedule while others may fall behind. The Bill allows the States greater flexibility over the allocation of cash payments between projects according to their rates of progress. With the agreement of the States concerned the Bill provides recurrent assistance to partially funded non-government teachers colleges in respect of 1980 and 1981. These amounts were approved within the programs for advanced education for the 1979-81 triennium. Until now they have been provided by way of the Commonwealth's annual Appropriation Act. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 102 of the Postal Services Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Australian Postal Commission 1978-79. 

 -Mr Speaker - 

 Honourable members interjecting; 

For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the meeting of the Australian Education Council held in Perth on 25 and 26 October 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is the responsibility of the licensee of a commercial television station to comply with the Television Program Standards determined by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal under section 99 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942. In the case of a breach of the standards there are a number of options open to the Tribunal under the Act, e.g. imposition of conditions on a licence (sections 84 and 85), suspension or revocation of a licence (section 16), renewal of a licence for a period less than 3 years (section 87). Other sections of the Act under which the Tribunal may take action are sections 101, 1 18 and 1 19. 
The Tribunal monitors television stations on a limited random basis. 
The role of the Tribunal seems widely known to the public through publicity of licence renewal hearings and news releases. 
The licence renewal hearings are conducted by the Tribunal in public. The Tribunal invites submissions from the public in a press notice relating to the performance of a station prior to the public inquiry. Submittors are invited to give evidence at the public inquiry if they so desire. In the case of a blatant breach of the Television Program Standards the Tribunal usually issues a news release on the action taken. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telecom advises that population statistics are not maintained for all of the exchange areas listed in Appendix 2 of the booklet  Community Access 80.  However, some indication of the relative sizes of the centres concerned can be gained from the following table which classifies the exchanges and service towns mentioned in the booklet according to the number of telephone services connected to the local exchange in each centre. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A former General Manager of the Commission  (Mr Harold White)  is living in a residence at Vaucluse owned by OTC. 
No. 
The Commission has received a valuation by the Valuer-General of the State of New South Wales dated 26 June 1979 in the amount of$135,000. 
Not applicable. 
-I know that the Minister for Education in another place will be aware of the representations of the honourable member on this matter. I will refer his latest query to the Minister and ensure that he gives the matter his most prompt attention. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act 1967 1 present the report of the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education 1978. 
Pursuant to section 33 (2) of the Australian National University Act 1946 I present the annual report of the Australian National University 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'Australian Students and Their Schools '. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie has made some very strong representations to me on this matter and has drawn attention to certain problems. Great relief has been provided to people in many remote parts of Australia by community Access 80. For instance, in the most dramatic case, the cost of a telephone call lasting three minutes, the charge for which now is $2.70, will, from May 1 980, come down to 9c. This is a reduction of $2.61 for every three minutes. That is admittedly the most dramatic case, but that sort of story is being repeated throughout Australia. The exception is cases where people rely for their communications virtually on what is called Outpost Radio and telegrams which they can send for their normal daily requirements through Outpost Radio. Telecom Australia has reviewed this matter and has agreed that the charge for each word should be reduced from 10c to 5c, a significant reduction. In the case of a telegram sent to an Outpost Radio station, the cost will be reduced from $1.20 to 60c. 
However, there remains in the minds of some people, and I know in the mind of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, one anomaly. Whereas telegrams sent to people who can be reached only by Outpost Radio do not attract varying rates of delivery charges in addition to a per word charge, telegrams sent by people in the most remote parts of Australia through Outpost 
Radio to other locations attract delivery charges at varying rates, depending on the mode of delivery. This seems to some people to be an anomaly. Therefore, I have asked Telecom to make a further review of the matter. 
For the information of honourable members, pursuant to section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, I present the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission 1978-1979. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the answer to Question No. 4328  (Hansard,  6 November 1979, page 2657). 
-The honourable member would know that there are quite severe penalties for telegram or telecommunications operators who act in any such fashion. I will examine the circumstances which he has brought to my attention and advise him of the outcome of my inquiries as soon as possible. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Immigration (Education) Act 1971 I present a report entitled 'Child Migrant Education 1978-79'. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian National Commission for the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation for the 1977-78 biennium, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Education relating to the report. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government is firmly of the view that matters of program regulation are best left to an independent statutory authority- namely the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The Tribunal has introduced a 'C classification for programs specifically designed for children between the age of 6 to 13. It has formed a Children's Program Committee which makes recommendations to the Tribunal on programs submitted to it for a 'C classification. The Tribunal has awarded a ' C ' classification to some 80 programs. 
to (4) The Government is presently considering the Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts titled Children and Television. No decision has yet been made by the Government on the Report's recommendations. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development's answer to Question No. 4328 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  6 November 1979, pages 2657-8). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1979-80, the benefit of any increase in actual revenues and over estimated revenues (excluding Government funding, orchestral subsidies and proceeds from the sale of properties) may be retained by the ABC and will be available for expenditure on other Commission activities. 
In subsequent years, the entrepreneurial revenues in excess of $ 10.757m (the estimated 1979-80 revenue) up to a maximum of $7m in any one year will be excluded from the draft estimates of the Commission and be available for expenditure by the ABC. An assurance has been given to the ABC that its appropriation for ordinary operational and capital expenditure in later years will not be less than the 1979-80 appropriations plus adjustment for subsequent increased costs; any proposal for increased funding from the Budget ( for both ordinary and extraordinary expenditures of the Commission) will be considered on its merits in the context of the total budget strategy for the financial year concerned. 
As it is not possible to determine the extent of excess revenues until late in the 1979-80 financial year, no decisions can be made for some time as to which departments or programs will benefit. 
The new proposals do not involve any change in the administration of the Commission. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) Racing descriptions were discontinued from 2CN Canberra from 17 February 1979. 
Racing descriptions were discontinued from 3LO Melbourne in 1976. 
Racing descriptions were discontinued from 2NC Newcastle from 3 1 March 1979. 
Racing descriptions were discontinued from 2NU Tamworth and the relay stations 2AN Armidale and 2GL Glen Innes from 3 1 March 1979. 
Racing descriptions from ABC stations in Tasmania were discontinued from January 1979, although the phasing out started in 1978. 
Turf news and racing results are given from all these stations. 

 The World of Jazz was replaced on 2CN from 17 February 1979 and  The Showman  from 18 February 1979 except that, from 29 October for the duration of the cricket season,  The Showman  will be broadcast each Monday on Radio 1 and will be relayed to Canberra. 
Where surveys have been possible an increase in audience has been indicated. 
Surveys in Newcastle indicate a higher audience than at the same time last year. In Canberra there is an increased audience both as a result of racing broadcasts being replaced and their place being taken by locally originated programs. It has not been possible as yet to undertake surveys in Tasmania or the New England area of New South Wales. ABC Advisory Committees have applauded the changes where their views have been recorded. 
As I have previously indicated in Parliament, programs of the National Broadcasting and Television Service are the responsibility of the management of the ABC, not the Government. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (7) ] refer the honourable member to my letter published in the  Financial Review  of 26 September 1979 which stated: 
SIR, I read with interest the Financial Review article reporting comments made by me on domestic satellite usage (Backtrack on Usage for Domestic Satellite 25.9.79). 
For the record, I would emphasise that I have not, as the article suggests, 'rolled out virtually any direct broadcasting faculty for a national communications satellite in the medium term future'. 
The misleading impression given in the article is no doubt due to a genuine misunderstanding of my remarks. 
I certainly did comment on the issue of direct broadcasting capacity in a domestic communications satellite. 
In this context, I stressed that proposals to be put to Government did not include plans at this stage for direct broadcasting of commercial television services. 
In so doing, I made a clear distinction between our approach to national (ABC) and commercial broadcasting services. 
It has always been my intention that consideration of a domestic communications satellite for Australia would include proposals for direct broadcasting of national radio and television services. And I have reiterated this approach in all public utterances on the matter'. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Telecom Australia advises the initial exchange was installed in 195 1. It has since been extended by the addition of three units, the last of which was installed in 1 977. 
The exchange is not currently programmed for replacement. 
There are no current plans to replace the cable as its condition is satisfactory. 
(a) Yes. Telecom advises the exchange is performing efficiently. 
Yes, in view of the assurance given by Telecom Australia. 
(a) No. In the last three months there have been, however, four exchange faults, generally of short duration, that could have affected service received by some subscribers. 
Yes. The cable was damaged by mechanical equipment at 2.30 pm on 12 September 1979 and repaired on the same day. 
'Crosstalk ' at a barely audible level has been detected but the cause has not yet been isolated. 
Following complaints of congestion early this year comprehensive tests were arranged in April and these showed no evidence of congestion. Two of the faults referred to in (a) could have, however, caused congestion for their duration 
The honourable member has raised important and technical questions. These matters are under close consideration by my officials and officials in all relevant government authorities. I can assure him that such matters will not be overlooked by the Satellite Project Office as it proceeds with studies towards the introduction in Australia of a domestic communications satellite. In particular, with respect to the Japanese system, I make it clear that I was advised early this year about developments in Japan leading towards the introduction of a high powered satellite system for direct broadcasting. Our advisers have tended to believe that a lower cost, lower powered satellite is capable of direct broadcasting services, but it is obviously important that it be capable of direct broadcasting under circumstances of possible interference. I can assure the honourable member that these matters are serious and that they will be kept under very close review. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 I present the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on financial assistance granted to each State under the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1 979. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Australian National University Amendment Bill 1 979 brings together in one Bill a number of amendments that relate to the Australian National University Act, and replaces the Amendment Bill that was introduced by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in the Senate on 24 November last year. These amendments include the insertion into the Act of provisions to give effect to the Government's policy on membership of student organisations; the changing of the structure of the academic boards of the School of General Studies and of the Institute of Advanced Studies; the changing of the name of the School of General Studies to The Faculties; and the amendment of the financial provisions in the Act to bring them into line with current Commonwealth provisions. 
The sections of the Bill dealing with student organisations will provide that: Membership of a student organisation will be voluntary; fees payable in respect of membership of a student organisation will be voluntary; compulsory fees can only be used for the provision of amenities or services; where the Council of the University makes compulsory fees moneys available to a student organisation for the provision by that organisation of approved amenities or services, the Council must first be satisfied that the governing body of that organisation is representative of its members; in addition, where the Council of the University makes compulsory fees moneys available to a student organisation for the provision by that organisation of amenities or services, then it is the duty of the Council to ensure that the moneys are applied only in respect of the provision of amenities or services that are not of an academic nature, that are of direct benefit to the University, and that have been declared in university statutes to be amenities or services in respect of that organisation; compulsory fees moneys are not to be paid to a national organisation which represents students but they may be paid to national student organisations whose principal function has to do with sporting or recreational activities, or with a particular education, social or cultural field, or with the interests of post-graduate students; financial statements are to be prepared and audited each year showing details of the manner in which compulsory fees have been expended. 
As I have indicated, the Bill also provides for a number of administrative changes within the University. The Council of the University believes that the name School of General Studies, which has the connotation of 'general' studies or adult education, is inappropriate as the name of the undergraduate arm of the University. The Council is of the view that the name 'The Faculties' is the most appropriate term to distinguish the undergraduate side of the University from the Institute of Advanced Studies and reflects more accurately the activities of this important side of the University. Accordingly, the Bill will change the name of the School of General Studies to The Faculties. 
In addition, the boards of the School of General Studies and of the Institute of Advanced Studies will be restructured in accordance with decisions of the Council. The restructured Board of the Institute will take account of the changing structure of the research schools in the Institute and of the growth in the number of centres, units and groups within the Institute. The Board will now become a smaller representative body and will be more effective in its review and policymaking role. The Board of the School of General Studies, which will now be called the Board of Faculties, will become a larger body with increased representation of student members and of non-professional staff. With this increased representation, it is envisaged that the Board will be better placed to fulfil its function of having responsibility, under the Council, for all academic and related matters arising in the Faculties. 
Finally, the opportunity is taken by the amendments to update the financial provisions of the Australian National University Act so that they are in line with current Commonwealth provisions. In preparing these provisions care has been taken to maintain the autonomy appropriate to universities in our society. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second rime. 
The Canberra College of Advanced Education Amendment Bill 1979 also replaces the Bill which was introduced by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in the Senate in November last year. This Bill allows for the insertion into the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act of provisions similar to those in the Australian National University Amendment Bill which will give effect to the Government's policy on membership of student organisations and, in addition, amends the financial provisions in the Act to bring them into line with current Commonwealth provisions. 
The sections of the Bill dealing with student organisations will provide that: Membership of a student organisation will be voluntary; fees payable in respect of membership of a student organisation will be voluntary; compulsory fees can only be used for the provision of amenities or services; where the Council of the College makes compulsory fees moneys available to a student organisation for the provision by that organisation of approved amenities or services, the Council must first be satisfied that the governing body of that organisation is representative of its members; it is the duty of the Council to ensure that moneys provided to a student organisation for the provision by that organisation of amenities or services, are applied by the organisation only on those amenities or services which have been approved by the Council as being of direct benefit to the College; financial statements are to be prepared and audited each year showing details of the manner in which compulsory fees have been expended. 
In addition to these provisions, the Bill maintains the relationship which exists in the Act between the Minister for Education and the College. This means that the Minister will continue to have the power of direction with regard to determination of which amenities or services are eligible to be supported from compulsory fees. Finally, as with the Australian National University Bill, the opportunity has been taken to amend the financial provisions of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act so that they are in line with current Commonwealth provisions. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The value of the basic living allowance payable under Commonwealth Post-graduate Awards (until15 October 1974) and Post-graduate Awards under the Student Assistance Act 1973 (since 15 October 1974) has been as follows: 1970, $2,350; 1971, $2,600; 1972, $2,600; 1973, $2,900; 1974, $3,050; 1975, $3,250; 1976, $3,250; 1977, $4,000; 1978, $4,200; 1979, $4,200. 
Up to 31 October 1978, Commonwealth Postgraduate Awards granted under the Student Assistance Act 1973 were exempt from income tax under section 23 (z) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The Government announced in the 1978-79 Budget that with effect from 1 November 1978, the Awards were to be removed from that exemption. This means that Award living allowances, incidental allowances and thesis allowances paid after 31 October 1978 have been assessable in the hands of recipients. Travelling allowances and establishment allowances paid under the Scheme are not subject to tax. 

The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  ( 1 ), (4) and (5) The programs and policies concerning immigrants for which the Department of Education has had responsibilities in each financial year from 1970 to date are set out below. Details of transfers of responsibilities between Departments are shown: 
Child and Adult Migrant Education Programs- From 1970-71 until 1973-74 both the Child and Adult Migrant Education Programs were administered by the former Department of Immigration with the Department of Education (Education and Science until the end of 1972) providing consultative advisory and servicing functions. Education was directly responsible for the development and production of English language teaching and learning materials. All funds were appropriated by the Department of Immigration. 
Full responsibility both for the Child and Adult Migrant Education Programs was transferred to the Department of Education from the Department of Immigration on 12 June 1974. 
On 1 January 1976 the responsibility under the Child Migrant Education Program for the provision of funds for specialist teachers and in-service training was passed to the Schools Commission. The Department of Education continued to exercise responsibility for overall policy, the demountable classroom program, the contingency program for refugee children, emergency classroom accommodation for refugee children, teaching and learning materials and assistance in teacher education 
As from 20 December 1977 the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs assumed responsibility for the Adult Migrant Education Program. 
Galbally Report-In 1978 the Depanment assumed responsibility for the implementation of Recommendations 3, 4, 14, 45, 46, 47 and 48 of the Galbally Report (Report of the Review of Post Arrival Programs and Services for Migrants) (see also 7 below). 
Expenditure on each Program and Policy 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The Williams Report on Education, Training and Employment examined the question of research in Australian universities, at length. The Report concluded that research and training in research were very distinctive features of universities. The Report supported the building up of postgraduate research centres at universities and proposed a review of the number and distribution of Commonwealth Postgraduate Research Awards. 
These recommendations, together with the other recommendations of the Williams Report, are being examined by the Government. 
I see no reason at the present time to establish an inquiry into postgraduate research in Australian universities. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) A condition of the grants for college purposes under the States Grants Acts for tertiary education assistance in 1976, 1977 and 1978 is that the State will cause to be provided to the Commission an audited statement of expenditure on college purposes by each college during the relevant year. Accordingly it is for a State Auditor-General to decide whether any particular expenditure on the rental or lease of buildings was for college purposes. 
No. 
See answer to question 2. 
The Tertiary Education Commission does not collect data showing amounts expended by institutions on the rental or lease of accommodation. 
See answer to question 1; the State Auditor-General would decide whether expenditure on the items referred to could be accepted as expenditure for college purposes within the terms of the relevant States Grants legislation. 
No. 
See answer to question 6. 
Target levels for colleges of advanced education and universities are not set in terms of commencing students. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1 to 3) Since 1 976 various changes have taken place in the structure of tertiary education in Tasmania. I understand that the State considers that these changes require an examination of the use being made of the Mount Nelson campus of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. 
The Tasmanian Minister for Education has announced his intention of establishing a committee to study the accommodation requirements for tertiary education in southern Tasmania. The possibility of relocating some elements of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education in buildings in Hobart, other than the Mount Nelson campus, is apparently one of the matters under consideration. 
The constitutional power over education lies with the State. However, the Commonwealth provides the funds for the university and the college of advanced education. If the Tasmanian Government were to develop proposals which could alter the level or nature of such funding, it would be necessary for the proposals to be considered by the Commonwealth Government in the light of advice provided by the Tertiary Education Commission. 
The Commonwealth Government will develop an attitude on this matter when it has a firm proposal from the State. 
Pursuant to section 99 of the Telecommunications Act 1975 1 present the annual report of the Australian Telecommunications Commission 1978-79. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In 1979 funds for non-government schools programs in the States administered by the Schools Commission are provided from grants available under Pan III of the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1978. Grants are provided for building and equipment projects, general recurrent expenditure, migrant education, disadvantaged schools, special schools, and for schools in need of short-term emergency assistance. Grants provided under this legislation are made available on condition that the recipient furnish to the Commonwealth Minister for Education, within a specified time, a certificate by a qualified accountant verifying that the grant money has been applied for the purpose for which it was given. 
For all grants, other than building and equipment grants, the Minister may require the recipient to provide a statement of such other financial or statistical information as he deems necessary. 
In addition the Schools Commission obtains extensive financial and non-financial statistics from non-government schools on a regular basis. Summary data from these statistical surveys are published in Schools Commission reports and statistical bulletins. 
A summary of financial assistance granted to each State in respect of non-government schools is tabled in the House of Representatives and the Senate as soon as practicable after the 30 June following the cessation of the year to which the Act applies. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) My attention has been drawn to the  Official Report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Japan, July 1978,  to its recommendations and to the answers given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs about Recommendation 1 of the Report 
In the last ten years, whereas the number of students enrolling in the European languages traditionally taught in secondary schools, has declined, numbers enrolling in Asian languages have shown a substantial rise. Between 1969 and 1975, for instance, the numbers taking Japanese multiplied nearly sevenfold, in Indonesian/Malay enrolments trebled, and in Chinese almost doubled. 
It is interesting to note that a public opinion poll conducted for the  Report on the Teaching of Asian Languages in Australian Schools (The Auchmuty Report),  which was tabled in March 1971, listed Japanese, Indonesian/Malay and Chinese (in that order), as the most important languages to be taught in Australian schools. 
Since 1975, although no statistically reliable Australiawide survey has been made, the Curriculum Development Centre estimates that in all three subjects, enrolments have come close to doubling yet again, even though enrolments in European languages have continued to decline. Indonesian is now the third most widely taught modern language in Australia after French and German. These growing enrolments are clear evidence of recognition by State Education Departments and schools of the importance which needs to be attached to the teaching and study of Asian languages. These recent developments are attributable at least in part to the work of the Asian Studies Co-ordinating Committee, which was established in 1972, as a result of the recommendations of the Auchmuty Report. The Committee comprised representatives of all State Departments of Education, as well as of my Department, and its life was to have been five years. It was extended for a sixth year but at 30 June 1978, it was incorporated within the CDC which has continued to both publish the Committee's materials and complete development where needed. The networks of communication established among teachers of Asian languages and Asian Studies, and others involved in the Committee's various projects, continue to function unofficially. The Committee funded a major materials development project in Japanese language. This is the Alfonso: Japanese course, of which the materials so far published are in use in most of the Australian and New Zealand schools which are teaching Japanese. The project is now being administered, and further materials published, by the Curriculum Development Centre. 
Since the Auchmuty Report, people and groups interested in the teaching of Asian Studies in general, and of Japanese in particular, have become considerably more organised. The Asian Studies Association of Australia has brought together academics and teachers at two major conferences, and is at present, with funding from the Myer Foundation, working on an Asian Studies Inquiry, which will include a rethinking of the Auchmuty Report. The Japanese Studies Association of Australia is planning its first conference for May next year, and Monash University is planning for next year its second conference of teachers of Japanese language. The Japan Foundation, which has a very strong interest in the encouragement of Japanese studies, particularly Japanese language, has now established an office in Canberra, and the Australia-Japan Foundation spends a significant proportion of its budget on educational activities, including funding of the One- Year Intensive Course in Japanese established by the Australian National University. Australia-Japan Societies and Japanese and Modern Language Teachers' Associations are also active in the field. There is, therefore, no lack of organisations devoting their energies and funds to the encouragement of Asian Studies and particularly Japanese teaching. 
The Australia China Council whose establishment was announced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in June 1979, with an annual budget of $500,000, is becoming actively involved in encouragement of Chinese Studies in Australia. The Council is also supporting exchanges between Australia and China. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Curriculum Development Centre Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Curriculum Development Centre 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974 and section 20 of the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Act 1976 I present a statement of payments to the States under the States Grants Act. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Independent Schools (Loans Guarantee) Act 1 969 1 present the statement of the payments made in 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Minister for Education on Progress in Education 1979-80. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Postal and Telecommunications Department 1978-79. As final printing of the report will not be possible until late next week, limited numbers of the report are available from the Parliamentary Library. In addition, other copies of the report are available for interested members from my office. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There were several submissions to me from the Australian Postal Commission dealing with the July 1978 increases in postal charges which were of a deliberative, policy formulation nature. In order to preserve the confidentiality of advice between me as Minister and my Department and the authorities for which I am responsible, I do not believe that these submissions should be made public. -&gt; I can say, however, that the public statement of 1 June 1978 by the Acting Chairman of the Australian Postal Commission outlined the main impact on the finances of Australia Post of the increase in postal rates which operated from 1 July 1978. More detailed reasons for the increases are given in the Commission's 'Service and Business Outlook for 1978-79' and the Annual Report of the Australian Postal Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978 which have been tabled in Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Commitments made by the Government include: 
use of Intelsat IV for the provision of national services to remote communities; 
b) on-going extension of the national services by off-air translators and terrestrial links; 
the recent announcement of the Government's decision to establish a domestic communications satellite system in Australia. 
A licence for a commercial broadcasting station to serve the Emerald area of Queensland, was granted to Emerald Broadcasting Company Pty Ltd on 22 December 1977. Licences for Broadcasting Translator stations to serve the Dysart and Moranbah areas of Queensland were also granted to Emerald Broadcasting Company Pty Ltd on 22 December 1977. 
Following legal action initiated by Barrier Reef Broadcasting Pty Ltd, licensee of commercial broadcasting station 4MK Mackay, the translator licences were subsequently held by the High Court of Australia to be null and void. 

 Mr F. T. Moore, Managing Director of Emerald Broadcasting Company Pty Ltd has indicated that his Company will not proceed with the Emerald station until the position in respect of the translator licences is clarified. 
Following the High Court decision, I have taken the opportunity to review planning of broadcasting services in the region, and I expect to be inviting applications for additional services in the near future. In this review of planning, and in the light of representations received, I have paid particular attention to the need for local programming and the need to establish a viable service. Both questions will certainly also be considered by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in its public inquiry prior to the grant of translator licences for the area. (4)I expect to invite applications for licences for television translator licences to serve this area within the next three months. Having regard for the duration of the licensing process and the time involved in purchase of equipment and construction following the grant of licences, it could be anticipated that the service would come into operation during the latter half of 1980. 
Yes. However, I am unaware of the background to the delay by the Board in processing the application. Rockhampton Television Ltd first wrote to me on this subject in September 1978. Since that time all the necessary engineering studies of the area have been carried out by my D epartment, and the relevant planning proposal has been completed. Arrangements are now being made to submit the proposal to industry bodies for comment. 
The estimated dates for the provision of the national television services to Moranbah and Dysart are February 1980, and May 1980 respectively. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) House of Representatives  Hansard  of 18 September 1979, page 1248 refers. 
See my reply to part 7 of Question No. 3332 in the  Hansard  indicated above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No applications have as yet been invited for further licences to serve Canberra. However, the Australian Capital Territory Totalisator Agency Board discussed its proposal for a Canberra Public Broadcasting station with officers of my Department in July 1 978. 
The ACT TAB was informed at that time that resources were not available to begin work on a draft planning proposal for some considerable time. The TAB was informed, however, that it could submit a draft planning proposal of its own origination, and to this end information necessary for the preparation of a planning proposal has been forwarded to the TAB. I have instructed my Department to nominate an officer to advise the TAB in the drafting of a planning proposal should this approach be adopted. 
2 ) and ( 3 ) See answer to (1 ) above. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
3 ) No. See my answer to question ( 2 ). 
The entertainment budget and actual expenditure for the Tribunal in- 
1976-77, (b) 1977-78 and (c) 1978-79 were as follows: 
-On 16 October 1979,  Mr Gillard  asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following queston  without notice: 
Will the Minister consider the practicability of the inclusion of all telephone numbers covered by Access 80 in metropolitan telephone directories? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To ensure general community awareness of the proposed Community Access 80 changes, telephone directories published before the introduction of the scheme in May 1 980 will include a concise explanation of the new charging arrangements that will apply. A more detailed explanation of the scheme will be included in the information pages of telephone directories to be distributed after its introduction. However, because of the already large size of the metropolitan directories and the extra costs that would be involved 
Telecom does not at this stage intend to list subscribers who will have community call access to their central city zone in the metropolitan telephone directories. In the Sydney fringe area there are some 76,000 customers involved and to include them in the metropolitan directory would increase the size of the book by a minimum of 150 pages and involve additional costs of more than $300,000. 
Subscribers within the Access 80 zones around the metropolitan areas can obtain free copies of the metropolitan directories, on request. 
I might add however, that I have discussed this matter with both the  Chairman  and Managing Director of the Australian Telecommunications Commission and they have agreed to give the matter further consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details in relation to my Department and those Statutory Authorities that come within the responsibilities of myPortfolio which own, operate, rent or are in the process of purchasing computers are as follows: 
The Postal and Telecommunications Department, the Special Broadcasting Service and the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal do not own, operate, or rent computers and are not in the process of buying any computers. 
Australian Broadcasting Commission 
1 ) ( a ) 3 ( 2 of which are not in use and are being disposed of). 
2 (including one rented). 
None. 
l. 
Cost of computers in use $73,625. Cost of purchase of 2 computers being disposed of $20,405 
Rental $20,405. 
COMPUTER IN USE $ 1 35,000 per annum. 
Computers Owned: TV Program inventory, Engineering equipment purchase control. 
Computers Rented: Payroll and Personnel Management; Financial Accounting; Concert Management; Statistical compilation; Engineering Contract Management; Documentation preparation; Computer program development. 
Computers Owned: TV Program Inventory data; Engineering equipment purchase data. 
Computers Rented: Payroll and Personnel data; Financial data; Engineering contract data; Concert subscriptions data; Statistical data. 
None. 
Authorised personnel within the ABC for official purposes; access by computer maintenance staff of Digital Equipment Australia is controlled and limited by ABC staff. 
Introduction of the computer systems has made it unnecessary to recruit additional staff in some areas including, principally, Finance Department. 
Australian Telecommunications Commission 
1 ) Telecom Australia owns and operates five large scale computer systems, and one large scale system is rented: it is proposed to purchase this system during 1979. Two of the computer systems owned by Telecom Australia also include a number of components rented from the equipment supplier. Purchase of these components is undertaken on a continuing basis. 
Telecom Australia also utilises some 54 mini computers for the control or monitoring of the telecommunications network and for research projects. 
A further separate and dedicated computer system has also been utilised recently to support a limited 9 months trial of automated Directory Assistance. 
The purchase cost of each large scale computer was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details in relation to my Department and those Statutory Authorities that come within the responsibility of my portfolio which own or operate computers are as follows. 
My Department, the Special Broadcasting Service and the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal do not own or operate any computers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have again considered the honourable member's previous question and my answer to that. 
I cannot provide the honourable member with an indication of the exact date on which the General Manager may have informed me of the Commission's plans to restructure its current affairs programming. 
I reiterate to the honourable member, however, that there is no good reason why this matter should have been raised with me as the ABC is responsible for decisions taken about programming matters, and this is not an area in which I wish to interfere with the Commission 's independence. 
Naturally, as part of my overall responsibility to the Parliament for the activities of the ABC, I ensure that I am kept informed generally about those activities. I would also add that the ABC is more than co-operative in ensuring that its Minister is aware of what its plans are. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of post offices closed and opened in each electorate, in each of these periods, is given in the following tables. Information for 1978-79 covers the period to 31 March 1 979. (The names of post offices closed and opened in each electorate, in each year, have been provided separately to  Mr Hodges). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Details in relation  to  opinion polls or surveys commissioned or carried out by my Department are shown on the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. I have received a large number of representations from members and the general community concerning the granting by the Australian Cricket Board of exclusive television rights to cricket coverage to a commercial network. Many of these representations have come from residents of country areas. 
I cannot give such an assurance. Where exclusive rights rest with a commercial operator the ABC cannot unilaterally ignore such an agreement and proceed with coverage. 
Coverage of sporting events on television is a matter for the appropriate sporting organisation and television operators, whether they be commercial or the ABC. 
The government does not have a direct role in these matters, but obviously hopes that negotiations between all parties will result in all Australians receiving a coverage of those events which have traditionally been enjoyed. 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
I have advised the honourable member in the past that this project is of considerable magnitude and for that reason has required careful planning and lengthy technical studies so that optimum coverage can be achieved. 
While the plan has not as yet been finalised nor submitted to me in final form for approval, officers of my Department have advised me that they expect to commence acquisition of sites on the Eyre Peninsula by the middle of next year. This would allow the necessary facilities to be progressively constructed and completed by the end of 1982. 
A project of this size cannot be completed any more quickly. It may be possible, however, to commence the project earlier so that overall it can be brought to a conclusion sooner. I am aware of the strong desire of the residents to have television services and I have instructed my Department to achieve an earlier date of commencement if at all possible. 
Brisbane 10C Telephone Exchange  (Question No. 4179) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a preamble to the answers to this and the series of related questions (4180-4183) asked by the honourable member for Cunningham, Telecom has provided the following background information to assist members' appreciation of the general subject of 10C exchanges and the implications of their introduction into the Australian telephone system. 
Until the advent of modern processor-controlled trunk switching systems, such as the 10C system, equipment design dictated a policy of increasing centralisation of residual manual assistance traffic following conversion of local exchanges to automatic working to achieve efficient and economical handling of such traffic. 
With the IOC system it is possible to physically separate the control (operator) and switching functions of manual assistance traffic. The operator still controls the connection of: call but the circuit is established at the switching centre (the IOC exchange), not via the operator's switchboard. The use of IOC equipment makes it possible therefore to still realise the significant cost savings and high switching efficiency attainable from centralisation of the traffic switching function, yet locate the manual operators' positions remote from the location of the switching centre- in fact up to 800 km away. Telecom is currently reviewing its manual assistance policy to take advantage of this new flexibility with a view to retaining employment opportunities in more country areas, and to at least maintaining the present country to metropolitan ratio of manual assistance operators. 
The answer to Question No. 4 1 79 is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, at Woolloongabba. 
This exchange will ultimately handle all ISO and all manually assisted international traffic originating in Queensland, plus all manually assisted trunk calls originating in the Nambour and Toowoomba areas, and selected Brisbane exchanges. 
It will also perform STD trunk switching and charging functions for selected exchanges within Brisbane. Nambour and Toowoomba exchanges both have their own trunk switching exchanges (ARM 's) and the majority of STD traffic from these centres will be unaffected by IOC. 
(a) No. (b) The extension of Brisbane IOC exchange functions is currently under review in the light of a revised policy on decentralisation of manual assistance operations. 
Most capital city networks have multiple trunk machines, eg 10C and ARM (electromechanical). Trunking between trunk exchanges is arranged so that the service impact when a trunk switching machine or a major transmission bearer fails is minimised. Each of the Sydney trunk exchanges, for example, have large direct routes to each of the corresponding trunk exchanges in Melbourne. Thus, the loss of any one of the Sydney trunk exchanges would not completely cut off traffic flow between the two cities. 
Bendigo 10C Telephone Exchange (Question No. 4180) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The 'printouts' referred to in the  Financial Review  are believed to be a copy of handwritten notes maintained by manual assistance operation supervisors for recording disturbances during shifts. While the maintenance of such notes is standard practice at all Manual Assistance 
Centres Telecom believes that working documents of this nature would not provide meaningful information.  10C Telephone Exchanges (Question No. 4181) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Increased operator productivity, due to the sophistication of the manual assistance position, and cost savings made possible by the elimination of such things as paper dockets, manual call pricing and manual inputting of call details into the automatic accounting and billing system. 
Studies undertaken in 1 978 showed operator costs per call for a 10C exchange handling 2 million calls annually were almost 40 per cent lower, than a call handled at an older type of exchange. 
The savings to customers are indirect- improved efficiency due to 10C exchanges being one of several factors helping to contain basic charges. 
Refinements in technical design and operating practices over the years have virtually eliminated all scope for further cost savings using conventional equipment. 
Brisbane 10C Telephone Exchange (Question No. 4182) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, concurrently with the opening of the new 10C manual assistance operator suites at each of those centres. 
(a) and (b) Via Brisbane to the new positions in Nambour and Toowoomba or Brisbane Manual Assistance Centre. 
and (d) Irrespective of the switching system, some disruption to STD traffic would result if failure of a trunk system or the10C exchange occurred. Diversity is provided by spreading trunk circuits over available radio and coaxial bearers to provide some protection and to maintain a limited service if a bearer failure occurs. Similarly alternative routes via the Edison ARM automatic trunk exchange in Brisbane will provide some switching diversity and maintain limited service for STD traffic in the event of failure of the Woolloongabba10C exchange. 
Operators at the Brisbane (ARM) Manual Assistance Centre would have the capability to connect calls to areas to which STD traffic has been disrupted by the failure of a major trunk line system. However, as at most centres, the operators normally compete with subscribers for circuits on the STD Grid, and therefore would suffer disruption similar to that experienced by subscribers dialling STD. 
and (4) Independent circuits are available between some centres for operator use only and Brisbane operators would have a limited facility to enable them to reach places to which STD is out of order or heavily congested. With the closure of the Brisbane transit exchange the operator network will be limited to transit exchanges at Roma and Charleville and direct dial lines into Brisbane.  10C Telephone Exchanges  (Question No. 4183) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sydney (Pitt), Adelaide (Waymouth), Melbourne (Lonsdale), Brisbane ( Wooloongabba) and Bendigo. Installation of a10C exchange in Perth (Wellington) is in progress. 
Precise dates of the commencement of installation are not available but the following are the dates when the various10C exchanges were cutoverinto service: 
Pitt(NSW)-September 1974 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) EPUY courses are aimed at assisting unemployed young people whose inadequate levels of basic educational skills constitute a barrier to their obtaining regular employment. The courses therefore place emphasis on the development of basic literacy and numeracy skills. EPUY courses are also designed to help improve attitudes to work and to raise the level of confidence of young people with a view to improving their chances of gaining employment. The program's aims are clearly educational. 
Statistics are available only for four States. Average effective F/T teachers per 100 students are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following shows the number of vehicles operated by the nominated organisations within my portfolio: 
V8 vehicles: 
Australia Post: 52 
Telecom: 14 
Postal and Telecommunications Department: nil 
OTC:5 
b ) 6 cylinder vehicles: 
Australia Post: 1,527 
Telecom: 5,000 
Postal and Telecommunications Department: 2 
OTC: 21 
In addition, Telecom operates 6,000 heavy trucks which have either V8 or 6 cylinder engines. 
4 cylinder vehicles: 
Australia Post: 683 
Telecom: 11,000 
Postal and Telecommunications Department: nil 
OTC:37 
Of the vehicles shown in part (1), the following are air-conditioned: 
a ) V8 air-conditioned vehicles: 
Australia Post: 12 
Telecom: see 2 (b) (ii) 
Postal and Telecommunications Department: nil 
OTC:5 
b ) 6 cylinder air-conditioned vehicles: 
Australia Post: 21 
Telecom: 456 (includes V8 and 6 cylinder vehicles) 
Postal and Telecommunications Department: 2 
OTC: 1 
4 cylinder air-conditioned vehicles: 
) Australia Post: nil 
Telecom: 32 
Postal and Telecommunications Department: nil 
OTC: nil 
A majority of the V8 vehicles operated by Telecom and Australia Post are trucks and this level of power is consistent with the required carrying capacity of the vehicles. Other V8 vehicles were acquired prior to the current drive to conserve liquid fuel, and these will be replaced progressively with smaller engined vehicles. I am assured that the selection of vehicles, nowadays, is based on the use of the smallest and lightest vehicle operationally suitable for the field work and geographic location involved. 
The ratio of vehicle acquisitions by the four bodies has changed to accord with the conservation policy referred to in part (3). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( l)(a) Nil. (l)(b)and(4)- 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Telecom Australia, as a matter of corporate policy, supports an open planning strategy that is manageable within available resources. In reviewing its Corporate Plan, Telecom has adopted an open planning approach; consultations are being arranged with a number of appropriate representative bodies (e.g. major unions and telecommunications users groups). Telecom recently conducted a seminar on Social Research and Telecommunications Planning, which involved Telecom managers in discussion with academics and consultants, active in several fields of socioeconomic research throughout Australia. A seminar on Public Policy-Making and Telecommunications Planning is scheduled for 1980. 
A users council has not been established as a single entity. Rather, Telecom has fostered the development of several telecommunications users groups. These include: the  Major Private  Line Lessees Croup; the Data Communications Users Group; the Australian Bankers Automation Committee; the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of the Disabled; the Commonwealth Press Union. 
In addition, Telecom has an extensive market research program. This program includes customer impact studies, especially in the non-business sector. 
Forms of representative industrial democracy that currently exist in Telecom include: 
Telecom Consultative Council, which meets twice a year and consists of senior Telecom management and officials of major unions; consultative arrangements with individual unions for a wide range of activities have been developed. 
In a broad sense, Telecom recognises the need for ongoing consultation with staff associations on matters that are likely to affect staff. Of particular relevance is the introduction of new technology. In this regard, a special subcommittee of the aforementioned Telecom Consultative Council has prepared a document which specifies procedures for the introduction of new technology. This document has been accepted by Telecom Consultative Council and is now awaiting ratification by some staff associations. 
Telecom has decentralised its field operations through the introduction of a District form of organisation. Seventysix full District Telecommunications Offices have been established throughout Australia and seven outposts have been created. 
House Prices in Sydney (Question No. 4739) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Berri, Gawler, Kadina, Kingscote, McLaren Vale, Mount Barker, Mount Gambier, Port Augusta, Port Lincoln, Port Pirie and Woomera. 
b) Port Augusta, Port Lincoln, Port Pirie and Woomera. 
Kingscote will be closed this financial year. Other centres for which closures are under consideration at the approximate times indicated are: 
Berri ( 1 98 1 -82, McLaren Vale ( 1 980-8 1 , Mount Barker (1980-81), Port Augusta (1982-83), Port Lincoln ( 1 980-8 1 ) and Woomera ( 1 98 1 -82 ). 
Telecom plans to establish a new manual assistance centre at M Murray Bridge in 1 980-8 1 . 
to (6) All aspects of the proposed closures including the question of security during emergencies and the effect on local employment have been considered carefully, and Telecom does not propose to depart from its long standing policy of progressive conversion of manual exchanges to automatic working, resulting in a gradual decline in the level of manual assistance. Fortunately, the application of modern computerised technology to manual assistance systems allows more flexibility in the location of operators' positions without economic penalty, enabling employment opportunities to be decentralised to a much greater extent than previously planned. Prior to this new development, of which Telecom is now planning to take full advantage, equipment design and economic pressures had favoured a policy which eventually would have led to the closure of all country manual assistance centres in South Australia. Telecom's present aim is to try to retain the present country/metropolitan ratio of manual assistance operators. 
The increasing use of radio links and underground cable in the trunk and local subscribers' networks will continue to progressively reduce the possibility of physical disruption from causes such as bushfires. Continuous service will increase as the automatic conversion program proceeds. In any emergency, the availability of secure, continuous telephone communications is an obvious advantage. 
Trunking of the network is also arranged in a manner which minimises the impact on service when failures occur. By the widespread use of automatic alternative routing techniques, and the establishment of manual assistance at the most strategic locations, maximum security within the network is achieved. 
Staff ceilings in Australia Post and Telecom Australia (Question No. 4782) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission determine their own manpower plans. Their policies for this purpose are broadly consistent with those pursued by the Government in the public sector. The Minister and the Public Service Board are kept fully informed on the Commissions' staffing levels and manpower plans. 
Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) In general availability of equipment supplies is satisfactory to and shortages are not affecting the overall standard of service. 
With such a large range of equipment and cables purchased and used by Telecom, it is inevitable that there will be shortages of some items, from time to time, but these are generally of a limited nature. 
The purchasing program is closely monitored and stocks are managed at levels to minimise difficulties, consistent with economic business managements. 
) to (8) The average installation time for 90 per cent of orders issued in the various States range from 12 to 28 working days with most of the remaining 10 per cent not exceeding 40 days. There are a relatively few applications deferred beyond 3 months where a major cable or equipment extension is required. 
Reconnections of in-place services are normally effected on the same day or next working day after issue of the order with delays exceeding two days occurring only infrequently. 
Public telephone damage is often caused by vandalism but performance objectives for clearance of most faults on subscribers services by the end of the working day following the report are generally being achieved. 
Where complete replacement of a damaged public telephone is necessary the damaged cabinet can be removed and the site made safe within 2 to 4 hours of the report. Where a complete replacement unit is necessary usually this can be installed within one month. 
For minor repairs to damaged cabinets the objective is to effect repairs within 72 hours of receipt of the report. 
Having regard to the high level of demand, it is considered the current achievements are satisfactory but efforts are constantly being made to effect improvements. 
Currently, staff shortages are not seriously affecting operations in any area. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
1 ) (a) The Working Party on Commonwealth/State Coordination of Post-Secondary Education made a number of recommendations all of which were adopted by the Australian Education Council at its meeting in June 1979. 
The implementation of these recommendations means that new arrangements are being established with the States for co-operation over the planning and administration of tertiary education. There will be regular consultative meetings between the Tertiary Education Commission and State coordinating authorities to discuss general matters in regard to policies and procedures, and to provide a forum for dealing with Australia-wide issues relating to the balanced and coordinated development of tertiary education. There will also be detailed consultation between Commonwealth and State authorities over the preparation of triennial plans. 
1 ) (b) The AEC Working Party on Education and Employment presented its report to the special June 1979 meeting of the Australian Education Council. The Working Party made recommendations for the further development of practical action to assist young people in the transition from school to possible employment. These recommendations included that all schools and education systems give immediate attention to the early identification of students considered likely to be 'at risk' in the transition from school to work, that schools be encouraged to experiment with alternative programs relevant to the wide ranging needs of students, that the AEC examine means of facilitating re-entry of early school leavers to the education system, particularly to TAFE, that work experience programs and link courses be expanded, that transition services be expanded for special g roups, e.g. non-English-speaking students. Aboriginals, the handicapped, country and transient students, and that initiatives be taken to involve the community in transition education. 
The Australian Education Council at its June 1979 meeting set up a small Standing Committee on Transition Education to implement these recommendations and to stimulate action in the States and Territories in co-operation with widely based state committees. 
and (3) The Government has no plans to introduce shared funding for tertiary education as a topic for discussion at future meetings of the Australian Education Council. If the States wish, it is open to them to raise the matter individually or through the normal mechanisms of the Australian Education Council. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Sydney to Melbourne confravision link was established on an experimental basis in 1972, to test the technology of audio-visual tele-conferencing, at a cost of $125,000. Annual operating costs, including maintenance, depreciation and interest charges would be of the order of $150,000. 
There are no plans to extend the service to Brisbane at present. Marketing trials in Europe, Japan and the USA have confirmed Telecom's experience that services of this type are not commercially viable at this stage. However, should fuel prices continue to increase and be reflected in higher travel costs, tele-conferencing services could in future provide an attractive alternative to face-to-face conferences. 
$125 per hour. 
The return on capital and operating costs cannot be accurately determined because- about 50 per cent of usage is for in-house Telecom conferences, the TV relay link used is a part-time channel which would otherwise be used as a back-up for the working TV channels, the level of operating costs varies according to usage, and the price has been set to attract users rather than provide an economic return. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Recipients of supporting parents benefit are not precluded from receiving benefits under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme (TEAS). Supporting parents benefits are regarded as income and means-tested under 
TEAS on the same basis as income from other sources such as employment. 
During 1978 approximately I SOO TEAS beneficiaries were entitled to supporting parents benefit. 
and (3) The Government recently reviewed the situation and decided that recipients of supporting parents benefit should continue to be eligible for means-tested benefits under student assistance schemes. This decision took into consideration the generally disadvantaged situation of single parents and the additional costs they necessarily incur in undertaking full-time study. For the reason mentioned in ( 1 ) it is not considered that any duplication of benefits is involved. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply. 
and (2) I have noted the reference in the 4th Annual Report of the Commissioner for Community Relations to the role of the school in improving community relations. I would point out that there are a number of initiatives currently being undertaken. As a result of the Government's acceptance in May 1978 of the Report on Post-arrival Programs and Services to Migrants (the Galbally Report) which are designed to stimulate improvements in this important field. 
Under Recommendation 45 an additional amount of $5m is being provided by the Commonwealth over a three year period, commencing in 1979, to assist in the area of multicultural education in schools. This program will support activities in both government and non-government school systems, and the bulk of the funds will be allocated to particular projects on the advice of representative committees convened in each State. One intended outcome of this program is to assist in combatting any racist influences which may seek to have an effect within Australian schools. It is anticipated that a substantial amount of the funds provided will go towards the development of appropriate resource materials. 
As a follow up to Recommendation 14, the Government is providing a further $.324m over three years to assist Australian professionals working with large numbers of migrant clients to obtain or upgrade language skills, and understand cultural differences. Pilot courses under this program commenced during the 1978-79 financial year, and further courses are currently being mounted. Participants in a number of these courses have included school teachers, and this program is therefore assisting to promote the goals of inter-cultural understanding and racial harmony within Australian schools. 
In response to Recommendation 48, the Tertiary Education Commission has approached tertiary institutions throughout Australia with a view to having components on the cultural background of ethnic groups included in appropriate professional courses. In the area of teacher training, such an initiative should help to ensure that teachers entering the school system will have a better understanding of cultural differences and be more sensitive to the multicultural reality of the Australian community. 
and (4) The 'Aboriginal Australian in North Eastern Arnhem Land', developed by the Curriculum Development Centre was mailed (field tested) in schools in NSW, SA, ACT, WA and NT during 1978, and in schools in Vic, Tas., WA, SA and ACT during 1979. It is proposed to conclude the mailing at the end of first semester 1980, with further trials in Qld (4), NSW (3) and WA ( 1 ). In total, 18 schools will have been involved in the mailing over a period of21/2 years. All participating teachers have attended an inservice course conducted by the authors prior to the trailling. 
The final 4 of 42 titles of the basic materials are being completed and will be trailled during the first semester in 1980 along with all completed materials. This will complete phase 1 of the project. 
Approval was recently given for the development of phase 2 of the project during 1980 and early 1981, at a cost of $1 10,200. This phase is concerned with the revision of the draft materials for publication, the production and publication of related materials (movie films, Aboriginal literature), the production and publication of a teacher inservice education package and the dissemination of all materials. 
The interest in the materials being expressed by State Education Departments, as well as by individual teachers, indicates that CDC should aim to make the basic kit, and as many associated materials as possible, available for use at the start of the 1 98 1 school year. It is an expensive undertaking, and the Centre is considering ways and means of dealing with the financial ramifications of publishing this major work. Alternatives are being canvassed and the Centre will advise me of possible and preferred solutions. 
As further evidence of the Government's general concern to effect improvements in the field of Aboriginal education, it should be mentioned that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs discussed with State and Northern Territory Ministers at a recent meeting of the Australian Education Council the promotion of Aboriginal studies in schools. The Minister stressed the importance of community education programs to enable all Australians to gain a better understanding of the present situation of Aboriginal people. The Council agreed in principle to a number of propositions, including the production of high quality resource materials covering all aspects of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander affairs, both historic and contemporary. 
Both the CDC and the Institute of Aboriginal Studies can be expected to act as valuable resources bodies as developments in this area proceed. 
I also draw the honourable member's attention to the Minister's report 'Child Migrant Education 1 978-79 ' which I tabled in the Senate on15 November 1979. The report outlines a number of programs which contribute to improved community relations. Expenditure on those programs in 1978-79 was $28.8m and in 1979-80 is estimated to be $33.5m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There are no plans, at this stage, to change the Coober Pedy Non-official Post Office to official operation. However, development at Coober Pedy, particularly the effect of the scheduled completion, late in 1980, of the Tarcoola to Alice 
Springs railway, and the sealing of the Stuart Highway, expected to be completed around 1986, will be monitored closely. 
The existing Non-official Post Office at Coober Pedy is coping adequately with the current level of customer demand. A change in the method of operation of the office would not affect the range of services now provided. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
Section 23 (z) of the Income Tax Assessment Act exempts income derived by way of a scholarship, bursary or other educational allowance by a student receiving full-time education at a school, college or university. Specifically excluded from the exemption are amounts received by a recipient student under bond to the person or authority from whom the allowance is received or under the National Employment and Training System (the NEAT Scheme) and the Former Regular Servicemen's Vocational Training Scheme. Also excluded from the exemption is income derived after 31 October 1 978 under a Commonwealth Postgraduate Award, i.e., under a postgraduate award granted under the Student Assistance Act 1973. 
Exclusion from the section 23 (z) exemption means that the living allowance, incidentals allowance and thesis allowance payable under a Commonwealth Postgraduate Award are now assessable income in the hands of an award holder but the travelling allowance and establishment allowance are not Expenses of self-education incurred in carrying out the terms of the Award qualify for deduction against an Award holder's assessable income except for the first $250 of such expenditure which qualifies as concessional expenditure for concessional rebate purposes. Expenditure for which the travelling allowance and establishment allowance are paid is not an allowable income tax deduction. 
This means, broadly, that Commonwealth Postgraduate Awards are subject to taxation whereas the section 23 (z) exemption would apply to non-bonded postgraduate scholarships awarded by universities and private enterprise. The section 23 (z) exemption does not apply, of course, to the remuneration that some employers continue to pay to employees while pursuing a full-time postgraduate course of study. 
The question of which scholarships awards, etc. should be included in the section 23 (z) exemption and which should be excluded from the exemption was reviewed during the 1979-80 Budget deliberations. The Government decided, however, that there should be no change to the present position. 
-The Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) to (4) Funds for non-government schools in the electorate of St George made available under the General Recurrent Grants and Capital Grants Programs administered by the Schools Commission in 1978 and 1979 are set out in the schedule below. Grants are made available on a calendar year basis and information is provided in this way. Payments for the years 1 976-77 are set out in reports which were tabled in the Senate on the dates listed below: 
Report-States Grants (Schools) Act 1972- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1975-76-2 November 1977. 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1972- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1976-77-23 February 1978. 
Report- States Grants (Schools) Act 1973- Financial Assistance granted to each State in 1 976- 25 August 1 977. 
Report-States Grants (Schools) Act 1976- Financial Assistance granted to each State- 23 February 1978. 
