I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. In view of the difficulties of religious and charitable organisations in raising adequate capital under the $2 for $1 subsidy arrangement for aged persons accommodation, will he consider a more generous arrangement for financing the operating costs for religious and charitable nursing homes so that they can improve the range of services such as those of therapists and chiropodists provided for the aged? 
I rise to support the motion that the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of the Governor-General be agreed to.  Mr Speaker,  may I first congratulate you on your appointment to the high office which you now hold and ask you to convey my congratulations to the  Deputy Speaker (Mr Scholes).  Yours is an onerous office, made more so at times than it need be by the behaviour that is sometimes as vociferous as it is unnecessary. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the electors of Henty for endorsing me as their parliamentary represen tative and to assure them that I am very conscious of both the honour and the responsibility. I feel very deeply honoured at being the first woman elected to this House as an endorsed Labor Party candidate. I thank all those people in Henty who worked for 5 years to make my election to this Parliament come true. I am conscious also that the electors of Henty have endorsed this Government and its policies and I look forward to legislation that will complement the social changes commenced in the Australian Government's previous and very short term. 
The opening paragraph of the GovernorGeneral's Speech contained a simple but very important truth. It states: 
In the elections for both Houses of Parliament on 18 May 1974, the people of Australia confirmed their decision of 2 December 1972. 
By every standard of parliamentary democracy the Labor Government received a renewal of its mandate, a new endorsement of its policies, from the people of Australia. In the history of Australia there has never been a government with a clearer mandate, for never before has Australia had a government whose policies were so clearly spelled out for so long. The policies of this Government were not presented to the people a mere 3 weeks before the 1974 election or even 3 weeks before the 1972 election. They had been developed years before in the councils of the Australian Labor Party. They were thoroughly debated in public. They were not thrown together for election purposes. They were not imposed upon the Party by the leadership. They were the product of the democratic process of the Party, developed over years and at grass-roots level by hundreds of involved men and women of the Australian Labor Party. 
When the Government was elected in 1972 the people of Australia knew exactly what it proposed. For 18 months - for not quite its full term, but never mind - they saw a Labor Government in action. When the Government faced an election for both Houses the people clearly confirmed their decision of 1972. I hope that the Opposition will take to heart the comments which  Senator Steele  Hall made when he spoke in the Address-in-Reply debate in the other place. He felt obliged to point out the obvious: Having chosen to force a double dissolution, and having lost, it is now time for the Opposition to begin to play a constructive role in the affairs of this nation. 
Of course, the Governor-General's Speech cannot be taken to be a complete blueprint for the future; nor is it an economic treatise. It is a statement of the legislation to be brought forward by the Government and a statement of the general principles guiding legislation. The Governor-General set out 4 principles which will guide this Government in its handling of the economy and of the nation's affairs generally. Those principles, most of which have guided the Australian Labor Party for many years, are: Protection of the weaker sections of the community; a firm commitment to the principles of full employment; equity in sharing sacrifices as well as in sharing prosperity; and, lastly, the need to ensure that any deferment of expectations will not be made at the expense of those for whom deferment could mean a lifetime of deprivation - for example, children at school and migrants. 
Into this last category I also place those who are handicapped or disabled, with particular emphasis on disabled adults. Handicapped adults - in fact, handicapped people - are usually a political non-issue. They do not have political strength; they do not march down the streets; they do not congregate; they do not have any muscle. Many additional benefits for handicapped people were brought down by the 28th Parliament. While they represent an energetic breakthrough, welfare services have been neglected for far too long for us to rest on our laurels. We have taken the first steps along a path for a new deal for handicapped people where self-respect, personal dignity and independence will be the touchstones for what we do. 
A feature of modern life is the increasing number of serious injuries caused by motor car accidents, industrial accidents and sporting accidents. Predominantly young people are involved. These accidents produce an alarming number of paraplegics and quadriplegics. No accurate figures are available. We do not collect that kind of information. But Lionel Watts, the founder of the Wheelchair and Disabled Association of Australia, estimated in 1972 that there were 2,000 quadriplegics in Australia and that the numbers were increasing at the rate of 150 a year, mostly from whiplash accidents. In 1972 he noted that many of these people were given no opportunity for vocational assessment or training; they were shoved away in convalescent homes and left to vegetate and be forgotten. In the past people who sustained such accidents died. But today, with improving medical science, they remain alive but with a permanent, residual physical disability. It is a complete abdication of responsibility for a community to save a person's life, to spend thousands of dollars getting him fit enough to leave hospital and then to abandon him. It is just not enough to keep people alive. We must make sure that they have homes suitable to live in. They cannot live in the sort of homes we live in. They have to have sliding doors and .grab-rails. We must make sure that they have jobs to go to, if they can work. They have to have transport to get to work. 
When one is physically disabled one is not necessarily mentally disabled. Such people must have access to public buildings and utilities, to concerts, to the theatre and to ballet. They must have access to the mainstream of living. Those whose disabilities are too great for them ever to return home or to go to work must have access to long term and suitable hospitalisation. At the moment many of these young people are in geriatric hospitals. The only company they have during the day is people in their 70s, 80s and 90s. It is not good enough. They must have access to hostel accommodation. A further look needs to be taken at the hundreds of people in the community who have accepted the full time care of their loved ones who have been injured. They are in need of urgent help. 1 have letters from people who have not been able to get away from their quadriplegic or paraplegic brothers or sisters for anything up to 18 years. I hope that this 29th Parliament will come to grips with such a problem. The Governor-General in his Speech forecast increased assistance for the handicapped. When such legislation is introduced into this House it should pass easily, with compassion and understanding. I further hope that any such legislation concerning handicapped people will be accepted by the States and that we will be faced not with another States' rights wrangle but rather with an acceptance of people's rights. 
Also I was pleased to see in the GovernorGeneral's Speech reference to the reintroduction of legislation to expand the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and to establish a national investment fund. I strongly endorse the idea that Australians can invest in the development of their own resources and industries instead of subsidising foreign investors and multinational corporations to the tune of millions of dollars. I strongly endorse the whole idea of the AIDC. It is an exciting prospect. 
I am pleased to see that this Government is determined to provide adequate finance for the expansion of welfare housing. All over Australia people are looking for housing at a reasonable cost. The largest single payment out of the weekly pay packet is the rent. For those on low incomes, on pensions or on fixed incomes, rent is becoming a nightmare. In my electorate of Henty - I have been a member for a very short period - I have found that most of 'he people who have called on me have had housing problems. It would be difficult to pick out the most desperate because they were all in extremity. They were living in leaking caravans and in tents in backyards and 10 people were living in a house. It is almost impossible to believe that there are people living like this in an affluent society. Most of these people want to rent houses. 
I am most critical of the high rents for fiats. Most elderly people live in one-bedroom flats. There are blocks of them everywhere. They are jerry-built and they go up for peanuts. This year the rents for them have increased by up to 24 per cent. After paying rent pensioners are left with $29 a month for their heating, food and clothing. This is the situation even after the last Government gave an increased rent subsidy. I am more critical of those States which constantly call for action on inflation and then abdicate their responsibility for controlling the price of land, building and, above all, rents within their borders. Federally, rents cannot be controlled and the States will not control them. No working man of woman can increase his or her income at the drop of a hat, but flat owners can grab all that the traffic can bear without any restraints at all. If this Government can increase the numbers of flats and houses available at reasonable rents it will do the community a real service. A home is basic to security. Real misery, heartache and broken homes are results of high rents. 
The emphasis running through the Governor-General's Speech was on social welfare and care and consideration for people. It is right that that should be so because more and more people of Australia are giving their time and energy towards care and consideration for their fellow men. The policies on which this Government went to the people on 2 recent occasions emphasised issues of social conscience. On both occasions those policies were enthusiastically endorsed. We live in a country where no one should suffer poverty, where no one who is disabled should be discarded and forgotten and where those who are sick should receive proper care, regardless of their ability to pay. We are a nation rich enough to provide for the welfare of our people. Our wealth cannot be measured in buildings, roads, airports and swimming pools. A nation's wealth is measured oy the care and compassion it is prepared to extend to the old and lonely, the dependent, the disabled and the young who are in the schools. 
It is right and proper that we extend this same care and compassion towards raising standards of living not only within our own country but also in the developing world. 1 am pleased to see that Australia will play her part in helping to combat hunger, poverty and illiteracy in the world through the Australian Development Assistance Agency. I am sure that with goodwill and co-operation we can make this twenty-ninth Parliament produce the results that the people of Australia have shown that they want - twice now in less than 2 years. Parliament, I am sure we all recognise, should express in its legislation the will of the people who elect it. The basis of election to a seat in Parliament is service to people. We are really public servants. The people made our election possible. They made it possible for us to take our seats in this House. That should be remembered, but it is all too often forgotten. I am proud to serve with this Government not only because of the policies it has put forward, not only because of the principles for which it stands, but also because it is the government that the people of Australia have twice chosen and because it is a government which represents the best aspirations of the people of Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. In view of the fact that the Minister is continuing to have discussions with and is continuing to receive information from trade union representatives, can he give the House any further information on the unemployment figures? 
I was pleased to see a change of attitude adopted yesterday by the Opposition to this legislation and the changes proposed by it. Perhaps that shows the value of the public debate that this Government gives to all matters that it brings before this House. It provides more time for the provisions and implications of Bills to be understood. I have taken note of the reservations expressed by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  The plan that the Labor Government has in mind for extending the scope of the Australian Industry Development Corporation begins with the creation of a National Investment Fund. The AIDC will have a special relationship with the National Investment Fund but will be separate from it. The AIDC will become a public investment corporation through which any individual citizen can gain a direct- interest in the development of Australian industry and through which he may share in its income. This role will be in addition to its role of funnelling overseas funds into Australia for the development of Australian industry. 
When the first concept of the AIDC was introduced into this House by the then Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen,  he stated that the Government clearly approved of and would continue to encourage the inflow of investment from abroad. He went on to say, however, that it was a matter of national concern - this is the part that we should note - that overseas capital was usually obtained on terms which had resulted in predominantly foreign ownership of many of our greatest industrial enterprises and fastest growing industries. He went on to say that in establishing the AIDC the Government believed that it was taking a major step forward in policies for development and for Australian ownership.  Sir John  McEwen said that it would retain and expand Australian ownership. 
That the original concept of the AIDC was far too restricted is proven by the vast growth of foreign ownership of Australian resources throughout the years. That proof is strengthened by the report of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control of Australian Resources of October 1972 in which it was stated: 
The Committee is of the opinion that the Australian Resources Development Bank and the Australian Industry Development Corporation are both performing important tasks. However, at this stage of their development, due to causes beyond their control, their role is far too insignificant to be considered a major force in the capital market. The Committee recommends that the activities of both these two bodies be expanded further .... 
With that report the Government concurs. The AIDC, if it is to be effective in this day and age and for future years, needs to be expanded and needs the amendments which will give to the average Australian the opportunity to invest in the future development of his own country. The Opposition continues to fail to recognise that we are not living in the 1950s or 1960s. Australian people are much more aware of the great sell-out of Australian resources and minerals, and much more vocal in opposing such a sell-out. The time for fooling all the people all the time has passed. I think that the Opposition will find now that it is increasingly difficult to fool any of the people for any of the time. Since the 
Labor Government came to power more and more public debate has been taking place on all issues that come before this Parliament and people are much better informed. The Australian people endorse the concept of the AIDC as an exciting prospect. The average Australian will want to invest some of his income in the AIDC. He will want to share in the ownership of his own country. He will want to share in the profits to which his ownership will entitle him. Life offices, banks and other investment groups have a part to play, but it does not include any place in which ordinary investors can influence their work or policies, or share directly in the income from their investments, except in rare cases. With the AIDC the individual citizen can have an effect because be will elect a government on policies and philosophies that will be directly reflected in the projects of the AIDC. 
The constant sniping from the Opposition in the previous Parliament about socialism by stealth was merely an attempt to draw attention away from the real issues involved and an attempt to cloud the judgment of Australians by raising bogies. It is really an insult to the intelligence of Australians consistently to raise this old socialist fear. No national project can be undertaken by the AIDC unless the Government submits, and both Houses of Parliament accept, a resolution to appropriate special money to cover the national interest investment, or a resolution is adopted by both Houses which guarantees the AIDC and the subject of the accompanying Bill - the National Investment Fund- that the Government will carry any losses should they provide the funds. The whole of the AIDC's operations will be subject to audit, as is the case with every other business. The Board of Directors of the AIDC will be almost entirely the same as was first appointed by  Sir John  McEwen. National interest activities must first obtain the authority of the Parliament. Proposals must first be debated fully in public. 
As well as making provision for the average Australian to back his country and to invest in the development of its resources and industries, the AIDC will also borrow funds from overseas so that we will be able to obtain that capital which our rate of growth requires but which we cannot obtain from within Australia alone. This overseas marshalling of fun will be done so that Australian equity will not be sold out to foreign control, as has been the case in the past. The AIDC will allocate investment funds. In making decisions, the AIDC will take into account the economic viability of the project and balance that with the nation's needs for decentralisation of industry, protection from pollution, balanced employment opportunities and better use of resources. The AIDC cannot and does not seek to change the Australian industrial scene; but it can, by balancing commercial, national and social factors, provide the impetus to industrial development in areas in which it is needed. 
I should have imagined that this Bill would have been supported before by the Australian Country Party. I am glad to see that it is going to support it now. After all, for many years the Australian Country Party has presented itself as being the absolute truth on the affairs of farmers. One would imagine that it would welcome the chance to help to finance the growth of producer and farmer cooperatives. This legislation will help to set up strong and efficient producer co-operatives. Rural communities should welcome this legislation. They are frequently at the mercy of large scale city corporations, many of which are foreign owned, which, by their control of the bottleneck between the producer and the consumer, exploit both the producer and the consumer alike. Farmers should be able to have a fair say in the marketing of their products and consumers should be able to benefit from genuine competition. The AIDC is not a vehicle that will be able to buy back Australia quickly, if at all. Indeed, the selling of Australia has gone too far for that. It is intended that the AIDC will provide an alternative source of funds to reduce or prevent the continued erosion of Australian equity by direct overseas investment. 
I heard the Leader of the Australian Country Party mention that one piece of cake can be cut up into only so many slices. I do not see why there should be any fear of the AIDC getting a share of the cake. After all competition is supposed to be the breath of life today. The life offices, banks and so on can go into competition with the AIDC. Anyone who examines this proposition fairly, objectively and without politics and emotion must come to the conclusion that it is in the national interest. It is in Australia's interests and it is in the interests of the average citizen who has a dollar to invest. I commend the Bills to the House. 
-I am very interested to hear the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  speak with such insight on pensioners. Speaking as one who has been a pensioner for many years and as an expresident of the Oakleigh Branch of the Combined Pensioners Society, I can assure the honourable member that he need have no concern about my explaining this Government's policies to the pensioners within my electorate. I have shared their problems. I can assure the honourable member that an increase in the cost of driving their motor cars will not worry them too much because under the government of which he was a member none of them had motor cars. 
The proposed pension increase of $5 is one more Government achievement in the field of social security. The Government's achievements in this area have been quite dramatic in the short time it has been in office. I am sure that this Bill will have the support of the Opposition in both Houses. This Bill, with the extra money it gives to pensioners, is urgently needed. The honourable member for Hotham said that the extra money was needed to pay the rent. It would be a good idea if honourable members opposite spoke to their colleagues in the States and asked them to do something in the States about the inflated rents that pensioners are having to pay to the predators who put up the blocks of jerry-built flats, not just in my electorate but everywhere. The Government has a very real fear that when this pension increase of $5 goes into the pockets of pensioners it will go straight out and into the hands of the predators who will put their rents up by another $5 because the States exercise no control at all. 
Our record in social security is all the more impressive when one looks at the record of the Opposition when it was in government. When Ben Chifley went out of office, the pension was 24 per cent of average weekly earnings. By 1954, under the LiberalCountry Party Government, it was down to 20.4 per cent and still falling. By the 1970-71 Budget, with its infamous increase of 50c - I can assure the honourable member for Hotham that I was a pensioner then and I know what I thought of that Government and its 50c - the pension rate fell to 16.2 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Opposition had such a deporable record in pensions that I was quite amazed this morning to hear the. Leader of &lt;the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  discussing the sufferings of pensioners who had just received a $5 increase from this Government - the largest single cash increase and the largest percentage increase in the history of social security. The Leader of the Opposition said: 'The pensioners have been suffering from inflation. They get a $5 rise but it is forecast that they will not get another rise for another year'. The Leader of the Opposition would do well to study this Government's proposals rather than make irresponsible and incorrect statements. 
I understand that the Opposition in its policy thrown together before the last election wants to tie the pension to increases in the consumer price index. To me this says that they accept that the pension is quite adequate and that all is needed is cost of living rises. First, let this Government get the pension up to an acceptable level. It has been a long hard trek, the way pensions had been let go by the previous Government. To constantly compare increases in pensions with upward movements in the consumer price index would make for small increases which would be quite unacceptable to pensioners and, I can assure honourable members, unacceptable to this Government. The correct comparison is to relate pension increases to increases in average weekly earnings. Average weekly earnings give a fairly good indication of the average standard of prosperity within the country. 
I feel quite sure, and felt quite sure before I came into the House, that we would have, the support of the Opposition for this Bill. While it was the Government, it constantly gave sympathy, compassion and understanding to pensioners. In fact, many times that was all they gave. If we remember the 1967 Budget, all pensioners got from the then Treasurer was sympathy for being left out of the Budget. Sympathy costs nothing and buys nothing. In 6 Budget brought down by the previous Government, pensioners go nothing. During its term of office, there were 5 Budgets in which pensioners got 50c. I received a table recently from the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation and sought the leave of the honourable member for Hotham to have it incorporated in Hansard. He refused leave. He thought that the figures of that organisation were unreliable. I should like to quote from the table. In 1953-54, pensioners received an increase of 25c. In 1954-55 they received nothing. In 1955-56 they received an increase of $1, making a total increase of $1.25 in 3 Budgets Let us go on. In 1956-57, pensioners received no increase. In 1957-58 they received 75c while in 1958-59 they received nothing, in all, a total of 75c for 3 years. With a record like that I am staggered that the honourable member for Hotham can actually do anything but get up and say: 'I support the Bill'. Attached to the table that was sent to me was a letter from the Federation in which it asked that the table be publicised as much as possible to show just who is guilty in regard to pensions and just who made the pensioners a forgotten generation. 
I can tell honourable members a lot about being a pensioner. I had 5 children at school when I went on the pension. I will remember asking in astonishment how we were expected to live on that amount of money and know the children could stay at school. The reply I received was that if I went to the Victorian 
Department of Education I would get special dispensations for my children to leave school at the age of 14. On looking into the situation, 1 found that 1,400 special dispensations were given in one year and on looking further into the matter I found that the majority of them were children of pensioners. So what honourable members opposite did was to make the widow a second class citizen and her children third class citizens and, after doing that, made quite sure that they stayed there. 
The honourable member for Hotham mentioned assistance for supporting fathers. He showed quite a bit of concern for them and I agree with him. But I might remind him that under his Government one had to have a marriage licence to qualify for a class A pension. Everything costs the same for families, regardless of morals, and I do not think we should stand in judgment on them when we are handing down pensions. Pensions are not a charity; they are a right that we work for. We work had to get a pension and we pay for it in cold hard cash through taxation. This Government intends to make pensions looked upon as a right and not as a charity. 
I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Hotham speaking of the increased assistance we are giving to the unemployed. I find it hard to understand how. when a man and his wife are thrown out of employment for any reason whatsoever, this community can then abandon the family, their house payments and their whole way of living and give them a sustenance on which to live. I just do not understand this type of reasoning. 
 No, I am not going to try. I prefer my own way. 
 No, I cannot think like a Liberal, and having been a victim of Liberal policy in regard to social services, I never want to. I draw the attention of the honourable member for Hotham, who is no longer in the chamber, to a statement by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  that this Government stands firm by its commitment to increase pensions twice a year until they reach 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, the honourable member for Hotham seemed a bit confused about that policy. We have made a commitment to increase pensions twice a year and to tie them to average weekly earnings, and that is just what we will do. Pensioners under this Government have appreciated the fair deal they have received and they can continue to put their faith in what we will do for them in the future. 
-Mr Acting  Chairman,  these health bills have been considered by the House of Representatives and passed by it on 3 occasions. They have been debated out in the community for literally hours. So I fail to understand why the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  consistently confuses this proposed health program with the British scheme. I should have imagined that he would at least have been able to grasp the fundamentals of our program. This program has already been endorsed twice by the people of Australia. It is the culmination of a great deal of planning and investigation. It was the subject of open debate throughout Australia for more than 6 months. I think that in 6 months the honourable member for Hotham could have caught up with the fundamentals of this program. 
The report of the Health Insurance Planning Committee outlining how the health insurance program could be introduced was tabled in the House of Representatives in April 1973. Not even the Opposition can deny that every opportunity was given for this program to be fully understood. Even though it is repetitious, I repeat that the program was fully endorsed by the Australian people on 18 May 1974. That endorsement has been maintained in spite of a deliberate campaign of deceit and misrepresentation of the program such as has seldom been seen in this country. 
I do have some support for that claim, gentlemen and ladies. Let me direct the attention of honourable members to certain quotations. The first quotation is: 
This debate has become more unwholesome as it has proceeded. Let's face it- some argument has been based on false assumptions and advertising by some professional organisations who have demeaned the professions they represent. Advertising in deplorable taste, by professional bodies that should have known better. 
My next quotation reads: 
I have kept quiet for three reasons. First, because this debate in the public mind has been so blurred, stirred up with false passions and abuse and counter abuse, that I felt that any responsible voice or voice trying to be responsible would have been lost in the murky  manoeuvrings  of the debate. 
Those are not my words and they are not the words of my Labor colleagues on this side. They are the words of the member of the Opposition who will go to the barricades to fight this Bill. They are the words of the honourable member for Hotham. I continue to quote: 
This legislation represents a sincere endeavour to build a new health benefits system which will provide high quality health services, accessible to all. Which will expand freedom of choice; which will promote efficiency in health services and which will upgrade hospital and community health centres. 
The legislation will make possible the establishment of community health centres. This was not possible in the 23 years that the Opposition had the chance to provide a health service to cover Australian people 
There are some groups within the community who obtain health services free, including pensioners. I know of the services which pensioners receive because I have been one. This Bill will increase the availability of services to pensioners. At present they are eligible for general practitioner services under the pensioner medical scheme. They will have their eligibility extended to a full range of medical services- I can say from personal experience how much that will mean to a lot of pensioners- including specialist services. Supporting mothers can be covered under the new program; they could not be covered under the old. This Government had to make other arrangements for them because the Australian Medical Association was not co-operative. Under the existing scheme, if a woman is uninsured and becomes pregnant she is not covered. Under our new scheme she will be covered from the word 'go'. 
At present the bulk of the population must insure themselves and their families through one of the multiplicity of health insurance funds. The greatest drawback to the existing scheme is that it is voluntary. Over one million Australians have no coverage. If honourable members of the Opposition can visualise a situation in which a person cannot afford health coverage, they will realise that if he has the choice between paying the rent and eating, he will eat, and if he has the choice between paying health insurance and eating, he will eat. That is human nature. Let us face this fact once and for all: The existing scheme discriminates against the very people who most urgently need health insurance. Even the members of the Opposition have confessed that their scheme leaves many people out in the cold. The very basis of the program submitted here by my Party is to make sure that the hard-working family man is not plunged into poverty through his inability to afford health insurance. That does happen. If the breadwinner falls ill and has no coverage, he and his family can be plunged into poverty in trying to cope with doctors and hospital bills. Honourable members and senators should read the Henderson report. The facts are there in black and white. I did not make them up. I repeat that people will eat before they take out health insurance. 
The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  made an unfortunate statement the other day in the debate on the health Bills. He said: 
We in Australia are in the happy situation of having a typically Australian solution to the problem of health care. 
It may be a happy position for the Opposition to have approximately 1 5 per cent of the Australian community uninsured and threatened with poverty when illness strikes, but it is completely unacceptable to the Government. It may be typically Australian to see one million Australians weighing up the cost before they seek medical advice, but it is completely unacceptable to this Government and it is unacceptable to the Australian community. There are some freedoms that are basic to the Australian way of life. I submit that the right to good health is a basic freedom and that medical treatment should not rest on ability to pay. 
The honourable member for Chisholm also suggested in this House that the health program we are debating would do away with the close relationship between doctor and patient. The honourable member does the medical profession a grave injustice if he believes that the close relationship between doctor and patient relies on a cash transaction. For his information, no really close relationship can ever rely on a cash transaction. Let me make one point clear; it should be clear by now: Patients will be free to choose their own doctor. They will be free to change doctors. That point cannot be reiterated enough, as it has been consistently misrepresented. Let me also dismiss the vicious suggestion that Catholic hospitals will be forced into performing abortions. That is one of the worst suggestions I have heard, and it is quite untrue. 
There is one other thing I would like to make clear. It was intimated this morning that this Government will force doctors to become salaried doctors to the detriment, I think it was said, of their initiative. The intimation was that they would be second rate doctors. Does that mean that all those doctors who work in repatriation, in the defence forces and all the residents in public hospitals- many of them paid by the Governmentare second rate doctors handing out second rate treatment because they accept a salary? Australians re-elected this Government and, in so doing, re-endorsed this national health program.  Senator Hall  made that clear yesterday. I did not really agree with him yesterday when he said that he thought that new members could opt out of supporting the other Bills. I thought that left logic behind, but I agreed with him when he said that the Australian people endorsed these Bills. If one takes the attitude that one of these Bills was endorsed by the people, it follows logically that the others were also endorsed. If the Opposition will concede that we won the election, then new members, old members, and the Australian community should concede that this Government has a mandate to proceed with the Bills. 
Too many Australians- more than a  million  in fact- have no protection against the high cost of illness and injury. When honourable members opposite are politicking and grandstanding, they should remember it. We are dealing with people. Too many Australians, particularly those who live away from the centre of our major cities- I thought that the Country Party would have looked at that- have inadequate access to high quality hospitals and medical services. Too many Australians suffer from a system which makes it cheaper for a wealthy man to insure himself against medical charges than for people who are not wealthy. Maybe I feel that more strongly because I have never been wealthy. 
Australia's present private health insurance system is clearly to blame for the present situation. Disadvantaged people are being discouraged from belonging to private health funds because contributions to them are in no way related to a person's ability to pay. The scheme perpetuates injustices; it perpetuates inequalities. The new program is based on ability to pay and will provide insurance for everyone in the community. In debating this Bill, the Parliament is really deciding whether health care is a privilege to be purchased or a right to be enjoyed equally by every Australian. In my opinion, a vote against this Bill is a vote against the rights of good health of one million Australians who are uninsured. 
The Treasurer announced in the Budget that $25m of the money allocated to the States for welfare housing was unused at the end of the 1973-74 period. Will the Minister for Housing and Construction clarify why the States, and Victoria in particular, failed to take advantage of the money? 
-I rise to support the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1974-75. In doing so I remind honourable members that this Government was elected in 1972 on a program of social reform. It was a sweeping program and one that had been widely debated with all sections of the community. It was endorsed in 1972. The electors recognised the neglect in every part of the public sector and in every area of social welfare. The program was again endorsed in May 1974. The present Budget is completely consistent with the social reform program my colleagues and I have been advocating for many years. We recognise the economic problems and we recognise the difficulties. But we are determined to push on with this social reform program. We are determined to put people before panic It is a Budget prepared to recognise the need for long term planning. It is a Budget prepared to recognise the needs of people. It is from a Government prepared to recognise that when change becomes necessary, change is needed. 
I am particularly pleased to have the opportunity to endorse the expenditure of $235m through the States on welfare housing. If there is one project that I am sure all in this House will endorse, it is the provision of cheaper housing both for rent and to assist private ownership for persons on low and moderate incomes. Housing is a matter of urgency in my own State of Victoria and has been for quite some time. In fact we wonder whether we will ever get on top of it. I am pleased to see that additional advances could be made available, given the increased resources for housing construction and the ability of the States to put further funds for welfare housing to productive use. I trust that the States will be able to use this money, which includes $25m not spent by the States in the 1973-74 period. Considering the number of people in Victoria who are desperate for low rent homes, I believe that all stops must be pulled out to make sure that this money is spent and that people are housed. There is a 4-year waiting list in Victoria for Housing Commission homes and the list is growing longer. 
The Australian Housing Corporation which the Government proposes to set up will monitor the sensitive areas of building and provide employment and housing for sectors of the community which are not covered under other plans. The Corporation will have the initial funds of $25m and it will help home seekers who come within the Australian Government's constitutional responsibilities. The funds will be made available to low and moderate income earners at special rates of interest. The Corporation should be looked on as complementing and not rivalling the State housing authorities. I hope that the States will see it this way. The pensioner dwelling scheme allocation has been doubled and the amount available of $ 10m a year for 3 years will provide more than 3,000 units over that period. If there was one area of housing that needed a boost it was this one. As fast as the Government increases the pensions to pensioners that increase is grabbed by the development sharks or those who build the blocks of flats and it goes into their pockets instead of where it is meant to go. 
There is a complete lack of rent control in most States and renters can take all that the traffic can bear. In my own electorate single pensioners living in the type of one-bedroom flats that will be built under this scheme are presently paying $24 a week out of a pension of $32. By contrast the flats available under the aged pensioners scheme are available for rental at $2 to $4.50 weekly. Increases in pensions are intended to benefit pensioners. If there is a downturn in the building industry I suggest that a greater preparedness from the building industry to work with housing commissions and a greater level of co-operation from housing commissions could help overcome this problem. Mutual co-operation can quite often overcome a lot of things. It would overcome the waiting list for those who are seeking low rent housing. 
Concerning the Defence Service Homes Bill, it is a progressive and constructive step for the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  to introduce legislation that will allow the transfer of an existing loan from one home to another. I am sure all honourable members have at some time or another been forced to tell someone who is moving interstate that he cannot get another loan. It is a constructive amendment. I am sure that all the men in this House will be pleased to see that this amending legislation also gets rid of the discrimination single men have suffered under the previous defence service homes legislation. Last year we amended the Act to provide for single women with qualifying service. This year we have liberated the single men and widowers and they too can receive assistance under the scheme. The new maximum amount of loan available has been raised to $15,000, with the existing rate of interest of 3% per cent continuing to be applicable to the loan up to $12,000. The rate of interest on the higher amount will be charged at 2 per cent below that of the most favourable rate charged for housing loans by the Commonwealth Savings Bank. My colleague the Minister for Housing and Construction is to be congratulated on the thought that has been given to flexibility in an Act that for many years was far too rigid and penalised the very people it was intended to serve. 
This coming year will also see the beginning of the implementation of the Government's new program for the care and education of young children. This has been an Australian Labor Party dream for many years. In no other country has such an ambitious program been attempted. This program recognises the need for education, health and welfare components in child care. It recognises the need for these same services for children whether they be looked after at home or elsewhere. It will break down the traditional distinctions between occasional care and regular care, between pre-school education and child minding. All children whether they be looked after at home or elsewhere will have access to local centres designed to take care of their educational, health and psychological development. The implementation of this program will place Australia amongst those countries most genuinely concerned with the welfare of the young. Again, I am sure all honourable members who have had the problem of latch key children within their electorates will welcome and endorse the scheme for the care of the children of Australia. 
We have already announced unconditional grants totalling $56.3m for local governing bodies. This is the first Government to recognise the new and increasing burdens on local government and to move to assist local governing bodies to provide services in their region which are comparable with services enjoyed by communities elsewhere in Australia. The Grants Commission was headed by  Sir Leslie  Melville and his recommendations were accepted by this 
Government. Criticisms of 'political overtones' which became quite hysterical in some newspapers and which were made by some unsuccessful councils smacked to me of sour grapes. I am sure all members of this Parliament would endorse the integrity of  Sir Leslie  Melville. 
You are attacking  Sir Leslie  Melville and his colleagues on the Commission, not us.  Sir Leslie  Melville has headed several commissions for successive governments and I for one would not attack his integrity. Unsuccessful councils might do better to look more closely at the type of submission that they put up. They might also do better to read the terms of reference and realise they were supposed to submit submissions on a regional basis. 
The Government has decided to assist the celebration of International Women's Year by making a grant of $2m to help co-ordinate the activities and celebrations in Australia. The United Nations designated international years to draw attention to matters of human significance. While welcoming International Women's Year, it is worth noting that it had to be thought necessary by the United Nations that all nations should make an effort to ensure that women enjoy the dignity of basic human rights. It is a sobering thought that women throughout the world have to be granted an opportunity to be heard. It is my earnest hope that 1975 will make a lasting international impact on reducing the prejudices and lack of opportunity from which women suffer. I hope that it will be a year in which community attitudes change and community prejudices are uprooted. I hope it will be a year in which the lasting contribution women have made in the Australian society will be recognised and I hope that it does not finish with December 1975 but that the changes carry through and are permanent. 
There are many other provisions in this Appropriation Bill which are both constructive and innovative. There is no need for me to go into details of the expenditure of $ 105m on a program of assistance to the States to eliminate the backlog of sewerage services. This subject was covered admirably by my colleagues during the debate on sewerage in this House on Tuesday. I hope honourable members will realise that this backlog did not arise in 20 months; it has been a process that has been accumulating over 20 years. It is a result of consistent neglect by States which, to do them justice, did not have the finance for such huge enterprises. It is a product of Federal governments which would not take any national responsibility for sewerage. 
We have provided for further expenditure on education in primary, secondary, technical and tertiary areas. The technical area is the one in which I am most interested. I hope that all those concerned in promoting the technical expenditure make haste in getting things off the ground. This is one area in education which has been consistently downgraded, consistently neglected and consistently lacking in status in spite of tremendous dedication from all technical school teachers and unions. 
Inflation affects every one of us. It is a community responsibility. It is not a problem which can be shrugged off by the usual 'Why don't they do something?' We all are involved. It involves this Parliament, State parliaments, businessmen, housewives, students, farmers and unionists. For the first time we are all involved together. Regardless of the label each one of us has a national responsibility towards inflation. Together, and with some confidence and cooperation, our way of life will survive and improve. Divided or forced into factions or groups we will defeat each other and, more importantly, we might defeat our way of living. It is too late to play politics or to protect narrow interests. None of us can stand individually and our nation cannot stand alone. Each of us and each country is very dependent on others. The day for apportioning blame is long past. It is up to each of us, particularly those of us who set an example in the Parliament, to work together and to grow up. It is time for all Australians wherever they live to give some thought to the role they can play individually in combating inflation. It is time for the emergence of a national spirit of cooperation both within and without the Parliament. 
-Will the Minister for Minerals and Energy inform the House whether any increase in supplies of Avtur jet fuel is being taken by foreign international airlines at Australian international airports? If so, what are the reasons? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy follows on his statement to the House the day before yesterday that Australia's coal export trade is increasing rapidly. Can the Minister tell the House what steps are proposed to recruit and train coal miners who will be needed in excess of those that we now have in order to cope with the increase in the coal export trade? 
I have heard in this debate quite a bit of petty criticism about the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  In fact criticism has been made to such an extent that I wonder whether the contrast between the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is not putting a little bit of green eye on the other side of the House. There were also one or two nights of fancy from members of the Australian Country Party in regard to the Prime Minister not being accepted or acceptable in the countries he has visited. This is atypical of Country Party flights of fancy. 
I wish to refer to that part of the estimates for the Department of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  which concerns the Grants Commission. Local government bodies, as all honourable members will know, are being called upon to play an ever-increasing role in our community, and rightly so, because this is the level of government closest to the people. It is regrettable that over recent years, due to pressure of finance, loans and repayments, councils and councillors have been forced into being more business oriented rather than community oriented. The involvement of the community in determining their own destiny and planning their own future in their cities is or has been declining at a time when it should be on the increase. All councils would welcome, and many do welcome, more and more communication with their ratepayers and more and more help with the numerous problems that councils now have to face. The years when garbage, roads, parks and gardens were all that councils had to deal with are gone forever. They are now involved in providing a huge range of social welfare services on a very closely integrated basis. They are heavily involved in preservation of the environment as their ratepayers become more conscious of the problems of pollution. Garbage disposal in 1974 is no longer just emptying bins and driving the trucks to the tip. It is becoming a problem of a lack of available holes and the need for destructors. Councils are now providing open space for recreation, adventure playgrounds for children, increased parklands and gardens, and as their role in society has changed dramatically over the past years their opportunities for raising money have stayed back in the Victorian era. 
They have been starved of finance for many years, and they were the level of government consistently ignored by the Opposition when its members were in government. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who has now left the chamber, speak of how the grants should be allocated to local councils. One would think that the previous Government which he supported could have found out how to do so in the 23 years during which it had an opportunity to allocate grants but did not care to do so. Despite that period of 23 years in office when the present Opposition could have set up a scheme of assistance for local governing bodies it preferred to give sympathy and understanding because that cost less. It is only since Labor was elected that any attempt has been made to give practical help to local government to meet the increasing demands which are made upon it. Labor has consistently tried to elevate the status of local government and the recent grants recommended by the Grants Commission which are included in these estimates confirm this. An amount of $56.3m has been distributed throughout councils in Australia. I point out that this money was distributed by the Grants Commission which is autonomous and the claims that have been made throughout the country that there are political overtones and political patronage are an insult to the  Chairman  of the Commission. 
It comes within the Department of the Special Minister of State. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-If  I may explain, this comes under the estimates for the Department of the Special Minister of State. 
-They are bracketed together on the blue sheet. The honourable member could have read it earlier. The granting of this money is an example of how Labor delivers the goods and how we redeem our election promises. One hopes that councils are now formulating their submissions to be put to the Grants Commission next year. One hopes also that those who missed out this year are reading the terms of reference and will see themselves as regions and not as cities. One also wonders whether, in the event of the Opposition's pipe dream coming true and it regaining government, this is one of the areas in which it will cut government spending. It would be in line with its track record of neglect of that tier of government that serves the peoples closest for it to do so. Local councils should take heed of this warning. If $900m is to be cut off Government spending under a mythical Snedden government, will councils be the first casualty? After all, local government was neglected and downgraded for years under previous governments. It is a wonder to me that many of the dedicated men and women who give their services voluntarily in local government were able to keep pushing on in view of the debts which had been accumulated. Their problems are continually compounded and their debts continue to rise. We have tried, as you would probably know  Mr Deputy Chairman,  to give local governments their own voice on the Australian Loan Council. We were obstructed by the State Premiers, as usual, and the referendum on this matter did not get through. It did get through in New South Wales which evidently has very well informed local governments which were very anxious to get a voice on the Loan Council. We want local government to have adequate and reasonable access to the nation's financial resources. We do not want, as we are constantly misrepresented as wanting, a take-over of local government. We want it elevated to its proper place in Australian society and given the means to carry out its work for the lasting benefit of the people for whom and with whom the councillors work. 
I congratulate the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the Grants Commission for their foresight in making these grants available without any strings tied to them so that councils can go ahead and get on with the work that has been held up for quite some time. The debts of local councils have multiplied 12 times since the last war. Councils still do not really have any access to proper and reasonable financing. I think they should form a lobby and come to Canberra to try to get that voice on the Loan Council because it is very obvious they are not going to get any help from the States. I would like to comment briefly on the crocodile tears of the honourable member for Darling Downs in regard to the perks, as he calls them, within the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department. In my time in this chamber I have not seen a group of people more anxious to look for the perks than Country Party members, particularly where cars are concerned. 
-It is a great personal satisfaction to me to speak on the estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction because I am firmly of the opinion that there is no greater problem facing the people of Australia than the housing problem. That is in spite of the fact that under this Government last year a record number of 152,727 dwellings were completed. Housing still remains a heartbreak to thousands of low income earners and to pensioners. It is untrue, as the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  has just said, that this Government is not interested in people owning their own homes. It is a fact that we recognise what previous governments have not recognised, that many people in this community cannot own their own homes and are forced into renting. It is to those people that we must turn our attention as they have been neglected for the last 23 years. 
When the Opposition was the government the housing industry was awash with funds. Shortages of labour and materials became acute and that Government did not make any plans at all for the provision of extra supplies of labour and material. It is no wonder that the price of labour and materials rose so sharply. If goods are in short supply the costs will rise and when the costs rise the very people who cannot afford to buy homes are forced out of renting homes. They are the ones who are penalised all the time. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  before. the suspension of the sitting for lunch, blasted this Government and its housing initiatives. He said that when the Opposition was in government it kept up with the demand for the provision of homes. He stated that Australia needs 156,000 homes annually. The 1971-72 Budget speech of the then Treasurer, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  shows that the Liberal-Country Party Government saw 146,000 homes completed in that year, so I guess that in its last year in office that Government was 10,000 homes behind the need in Australia. 
What else happened while the LiberalCountry Party Government was in power? Millions of square feet of office space sprang up all over Australia when people were wanting homes. We did not need office space. There was 2 million square feet unoccupied in Melbourne alone. Office buildings were going up at a rate of knots. Men, labour and materials which were in short supply were pouring into office buildings some of which are still untenanted. An office building at St Kilda Junction still has not got a tenant in it. The men and materials, the work force, were dragged away from where they were neededthat is, in the building of homes and hospitals and schools- and poured into these great buildings in the cities. That is what happened and that is why we are so far behind with the building of homes. The homes, I insist, are to rent or buy. 
In my electorate alone most of the people who come into my electorate office have in one way or another struck misfortune. They have lost their homes or their husbands or they are deserted wives and they do not have the capital to invest in buying a house. They want to rent a house but they cannot find a house at a rent they can afford to pay. So we need this welfare housing and we need it desperately. When the honourable member for Bendigo is praising the Victorian Government for various things he might draw to the attention of the House the 4-year lag on the Victorian Housing Commission home waiting list for people with 4 children. If you go into the Victorian Housing Commission to apply for a home you will be told to have another baby because people with 5 children go to the top of the list. He might also point to the fact that the price of land in Victoria is the direct responsibility of the Victorian Government and that rent control also is the responsibility of the Victorian Government. That Government made no effort whatsoever to use any of the controls that it has in these fields. There is very little in regard to housing for which we could praise the Victorian State Government. 
I think it was the honourable member for Boothby who earlier called for restraint in Government spending. That is a catchcry which we hear often these days. But no member of the Opposition will tell us in what area his Party would restrain spending if it was in government. If the restraint comes to housing I guess it will be in the field of welfare housing because this is the area which those opposite have consistently neglected. I have coming into my electorate office people who are paying one-third of their weekly wage in rent. This is not for houses they are buying; this is what they are paying in rent. It is complete heartbreak to see that pensioners who have received increases amounting to $ 1 1 in the pension since this Government came into power, plus a rise in rent assistance, are finding that they are off on the rat race once again. They find that the one-bedroom flat which they were renting 12 months ago for $17.50 is now costing $26. There is an absolute and urgent necessity for welfare housing. Builders need the work; people need the houses; material is available for building; and this Government is now supplying the money through these estimates. 
I would like to see the whole building program put onto an emergency basis. People have to be housed. Some people on housing commission waiting lists are paying rents that they cannot afford. They are getting into debt. When they get into debt they will not be eligible for housing commission homes because they have a record as bad payers. So it is not something on which we should be playing politics. I do not really care whether they are renting or buying. It is so ludicrous to keep on calling us socialists who do not want people to own their own homes. We get down to the very childish political ploy here. Honourable members are talking about people and they are talking about homes. Without a home there is complete heartbreak. If a person cannot afford the rent there is complete heartbreak. I am as anxious as anybody else to see young people or those who are able own their own homes. 
I think that in this Estimates debate the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  should be congratulated for the way in which he has diversified the interest that the Government is now showing in housing. He is initiating an Australian housing corporation. I think it is a great innovation. Those for whom the Australian Government have constitutional responsibilities will have a rare opportunity to own their own homes. I also applaud the Minister's foresight in saying that he expects to see the Australian housing corporation self-sufficient. It will not need consistent or continual injections of money each year; it will be able to support itself. 
One other area about which I wanted to have a word is homes for defence personnel. I believe that it was right and proper that this Government allowed single men the same right as we have allowed single service women to buy defence homes. We do not want to be discriminating against men any more than we do against women. But I reject the Opposition's consistent criticism that we are responsible for the downturn and for the chaos that it has stated exists in the building industry. I agree with my colleague the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  who said that we inherited the situation that we now have. We are coping with it as best we can. But when you inject an amount of money into the building industry as irresponsibly as Opposition members did in their last year in government there is going to be a backwash of the kind with which we have been coping. Far from the States not spending their allocations under welfare housing provisions as happened last year when they returned to the Treasury an amount of $25m, I am pleased to see that the builders are now co-operating and tendering for the construction of welfare houses. 
The way in which the Minister has also given some attention to homes for aged people is to be commended. Pensioners who are renting these small flats find themselves in tremendous difficulty with the rents. To provide accommodation for the aged at the amount of the rent subsidy is, I think, a very humane way of facing the building problems. I still would stress that millions and millions of square feet of office space- the construction of which was approved by members of the Opposition when they were in office- is one of the main reasons why the cost of building a house today has soared sky high. There were times when contractors building in the city were outbidding each other for labour and scarce materials at a rate which was sending up the price even of nails. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
What is the attitude of the Minister for Minerals and Energy to the application by Ampol Exploration Ltd to the Prices Justification Tribunal for an increase from $1.97 to $6.12 per barrel for Barrow Island crude? 
-Since taking office, this Government has set a record of improvements in social security which would be pretty hard to fault. We have not talked about taking unspecified action at some unspecified time when economic circumstances permitted. We have acted. We have gone ahead with the reforms we promised in 2 election campaigns. I am very happy to see today that several of the speakers from the other side of the Parliament have praised some of the movements that we have taken that were so desperately needed within the community. Honourable members opposite had a long time to do these things themselves. There has been in the past an odd sort of ' me too ' quality about their attitude to our movements in social security. 
Among the improvements financed by these estimates is the doubling of the sudsidy towards the capital cost of construction of homes for the aged. This is one item that I welcome and that I am sure the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  was pleased to see in the estimates. I am in total agreement with him that the home environment is undoubtedly the ideal one, but with so many families now in small homes and so many parents working it is not feasible for a large number of elderly people to live with their relatives, and therefore we desperately need homes for the aged where they can retain independence and nursing homes for those who are no longer able to care for themselves. The subsidy will now be $4 for $ 1 . It should go a long way towards encouraging the provision of more independent accommodation for the aged. We on this side of the Parliament recognise that building costs have risen. There is a desperate necessity for the charitable and religious organisations which provide most of the care, and I would say most of the first class care, for elderly people to get better subsidies. 
I am also pleased to learn that handicapped adults will now be able to take up residence in aged persons homes. I have always been of the opinion that rehabilitation can be better helped by not segregating handicapped people from other people. It has been my opinion also that handicapped children should be moved as often as possible back into the normal State school environment instead of being segregated as they are at the moment. I hope that this is something that may be done in the future. 
The doubled subsidy for homes for the aged will be of tremendous help. So too will be the plan by this Government to take over the deficits of non-profit making charitable and religious organisations which build nursing homes. A growing backlog of elderly people are in desperate need of both subsidised and nursing home accommodation despite the massive increase of money this Government is pouring into this area. I would hope that in the next 12 months we might get a little more co-operation from the States and in particular from my own State of Victoria. Both State governments and the Australian Government are supposed to be helping people. It is absurd to have obstruction from States which hold up building programs when people desperately need homes. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has begun a thorough review of the whole system of financing and constructing homes for the aged because he believes there is a strong possibility that these homes are not operating in the best interests of the community, the taxpayers or the people with limited means who need accommodation. In regard to the owner-donor homes, for instance, it concerns us a bit that those who contribute the donations have no equity in the accommodation units they help to finance. I also think it is rather necessary that when we pick up the deficit financing some controls be instituted so that extravagant deficits will not be encouraged. These controls could be established in consultation with the community voluntary agencies concerned. The nursing homes too might do well to have a look at the regional aspects that the Government has introduced in some areas. The Grants Commission operates on a regional basis and the Australian assistance plan is based on regional areas. It might be an idea for nursing homes to enter into co-operative regional projects and develop a program whereby supporting and therapy services are expanded so that they are shared efficiently by all within the region rather than each hospital attempting to set up its own services. Laundry facilities could be centralised so that all hospitals within a region could use the same service instead of going to the expense of setting up their own. Voluntary agencies could engage expert geriatric staff and therapists to serve a number of nursing homes and domiciliary day centres. 
I should also like to see an extension of domiciliary day care and emergency day care. Having looked after elderly parents in the home environment myself I am well aware of how necessary it is for those who want to care for their elderly people at home to have somewhere to take them so that the younger people can have a day or a weekend off or a holiday. Giving up my time to care for my parents did not bother me, but it would have been nice to have had a day's shopping or a weekend away, and I know there are hundreds of people in this position. It is also good for those elderly people who are being cared for at home to move out into a different environment, into a more stimulating environment, to move among their peers. While it is necessary for them to have younger people and children around to keep them in the mainstream of living it is also great for them to be able to reminisce with people in their own age group. Domiciliary day care, emergency care and holiday care could be of tremendous benefit to the community, but I should see it being run on a regional basis. No city or country town could provide its own services in all these areas. I think we are going to have to accept more and more of the regional type of servicing. 
There are many things within these estimates that could be dwelt on. One of my colleagues spoke briefly on the alteration of building standards by the Australian Government so that in future all Australian Government buildings will have facilities which will enable them to be used by handicapped people. It sounds perhaps a small thing but it will give a tremendous feeling of independence to handicapped people. I hope that the States will follow suit, and I do not see any reason at all why private enterprise cannot spend those few extra dollars to have wider corridors, sliding doors, grab rails, ramps and toilets for handicapped people. Lately handicapped . people have been taking a tremendous interest in determining their own destiny, and the provision of buildings with facilities which they can use will give them a helping hand towards achieving the dignity of being independent. There is only one theatre in Melbourne at the moment which anyone who is handicapped or in a wheel chair can attend, and that is the Blackwood Theatre at Monash University. People who are physically handicapped are not mentally handicapped and they still enjoy music and the theatre and art and going to concerts. A lot more provision should be made for handicapped people so that they can move about. 
I am delighted also to see the innovation of an allowance of $10 a week for handicapped children. I congratulate the Minister on this. I say that it is too small but it is a start; I hope that, like the acorn, it is going to grow into a big tree. Many of the people who care for handicapped children at home face a tremendous amount of extra expense. Again, they are like people with elderly parents needing domiciliary day care. If they want a day off or if the family wants a picnic and cannot take the handicapped child they have to pay baby sitters and it is costing a lot of extra money. As it is, a handicapped child brings enough grief to the family without the added burden of very great extra expense. 
I am sure the extra money provided to Meals on Wheels will be very welcome. Here again I agree with my colleague opposite that it is not just the hot meal that comes into the house that makes the difference. Sometimes the person who brings the meal is the only visitor some elderly people have during the day and I think we owe a great debt of gratitude to those hundreds of women throughout Australia who voluntarily go out each day delivering meals and keeping the persons to whom they are delivering the meals in touch with living. Very often it is the only way the elderly people have of keeping in touch and this is a great help to their loneliness. I hate to think what the scheme would cost if we had to pay for the cost of delivery as well as for the buying and preparation of the meals. So this Government, and in fact the Australian community, is heavily indebted to all those women who take part in voluntarily delivering meals on wheels. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I would like to make a personal explanation to the House concerning an article which appears on page 17 of today's Melbourne 'Age'. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Does the honourable member for Henty claim to have been misrepresented? 
-I claim that the 'Joan Child' who is mentioned in the article is not Joan Child, the member for Henty. The 3 1st of July was a sitting day. Hansard will have recorded that I was present for all divisions on that day. I would like the House to be quite clear on the fact that I am not the 'Joan Child' mentioned in the article. 
-The Australian Government has undertaken to support a $1 billion program of both loan funds and interest free capital grants to the States for the 1974-75 financial year. May I point out that the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  who is so concerned about the inflationary prospects for the States, should do a little mental arithmetic and ascertain how much less the States would get under the 8 per cent across the board cut that the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia has forecast. It works out at something like $50m. If the States had $50m less in their pockets they would have to do quite a bit of belt tightening. 
The outlay includes the provision of almost $10m to Queensland for flood restoration purposes to cover the cost of resiting and reconstructing those properties destroyed or damaged by the floods last year. Quite a few people may be unaware that the Government has promised to provide flood relief money. Certainly the Premier of Queensland has not gone out of his way to publicise his appreciation of the Government's action, but that is just about par for the course for the Premier of Queensland. The States have been relieved of the responsibility of financing tertiary education. The basic program for each State is 20 per cent greater than last year's proposal. The sum of $326m has been provided by the Government to the States as capital grants. They are interest free grants and there are no strings attached to them as to the spending of the finance. Those States which constantly criticise the Government for tying grants and those honourable members who constantly join in with the criticism neglect to say that this year the States will be getting 8 per cent more than last year in interest free, no strings attached grants and $126m more than when the scheme was started. In September of this year the Australian Government proposed, and the States agreed, to an increase of 10 per cent in the basic program. This agreement will be formally approved at a later meeting of the Loan Council. 
It is a great disappointment to me personally that local government bodies do not have a voice of their own on the Loan Council. There are over 900 local government bodies in Australia. Their responsibilities to their ratepayers over past years have increased rapidly. These local government bodies are becoming heavily involved in social welfare, conservation, child care and the provision of pre-school facilities. Their access to finance should be considered. The refusal by the States to allow local government bodies to be represented in their own right was deplorable to me. I was also disappointed to find that New South Wales was the only State which saw the light in the recent referendum and voted for representation The Government has, of course, initiated access to the Grants Commission, which does give some straight out grants with no strings attached to local government bodies, but I still believe that they should have their own voice and their own representation on the Loan Council. 
The Government makes no apology for putting particular emphasis on the funding of specific purpose programs. We have never attempted to make any apology about that. We believe that the funds which go to the States, as distinct from capital grants, should have strings attached to them. At the June 1973 Premiers Conference the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 
From now on, we will expect to be involved in the planning of the function to which we are financially committed. 
That sounds like good common sense to me. If one puts money into something one wants to see that it is spent in the way in which one envisaged its being spent. After some of the experiences we have had with the States in the past I do not have quite the same confidence in them as the honourable member for Hume appears to have. In particular I am thinking of the library grants by the Commonwealth which went through the Department of Education in Victoria as distinct from the ones which went to private schools in that State. The Commonwealth moneys spent on libraries by the private schools resulted in the construction of beautiful buildings and the standards were superb. Altogether they were buildings and equipment of which to be proud. But that was not so with respect to the spending by the Victorian Government of Commonwealth money on libraries for State schools. One of the reasons I am wedded to the idea of specific grants is that one knows one is going to get what one has said the money is for. 
I point out that the Australian Government now makes over 100 grants to the States for specific purposes, which is a great increase on the grants in previous years. There can be no substance to Opposition statements that the Government is not catering for the needs of the States. As I stated earlier, the number of capital grants has increased quite significantly since the Government took over. As well as the increase in the actual number of grants the States have benefited from having grants replace borrowings. For instance, as grants replace the borrowings that would have otherwise been made by the States there have been substantial savings by the States in debt charges. These savings have been estimated at around $59.7m. One does not hear much mention of that by the State Premiers. To me it is quite a large sum of money, but they seem to have been able to sweep it under the carpet quite easily. The interest-free capital grants are designed to help the States to finance those capital works from which the States cannot expect a return- schools, police buildings and the like. Under a separate Bill a record amount of money is being provided to the States for welfare housing. A moderate rate of interest is to apply. Homes will be built specifically for renting or purchase by low income earners. I repeat that I am wedded to these specific purpose grants because we know that the money will be spent on what is most needed and where it is most needed. 
It is regrettable that in some of the areas where this Government does not have a say projects lag far behind schedule. In Victoria the State school building program is failing to keep up with the new schools that are so desperately needed. In my own electorate I know of schools that should be bulldozed and replaced with buildings in which teachers and students alike could work in comfort. Schools in Victoria, and for that matter in other States, still have playgrounds defaced with collections of chicken coops, formerly known as portables, in which students freeze in winter and boil in summer, and reach them either through a mat of dust or a sea of mud, depending on the season. By comparison, in the Australian Capital Territory where this Government does have a say in the education system and school buildings, schools are of a high standard. They comprise good equipment and permanent buildings where the staff actually has a room in which to sit and work instead of a staff room doubling as a sick bay, cloakroom, remedial teaching room and lunch room. 
I have always had the impression that the Australian States make up the Australian nation. I feel it is quite destructive to have constant carping from the States about Australian Government interference. Money spent in Australia, whether it be by the Australian Government or by the State governments, usually comes from the same source- the taxpayer's pocket. It is usually spent for the same purpose- in service to the Australian taxpayer. This Government has taken over responsibility for a whole range of expenditure that it normally would not have. As well, and in conjunction with the States, it is entering further new fields. This is apparent in subsidies and grants, which generally are not known to the public, to hospitals, nursing homes, aged persons hostels, pre-schools, child care centres and, through the Australian assistance plan, to a whole range of community projects. This Government has taken over the funding of tertiary educational institutions. It is making direct grants to local governments. It is maintaining and expanding capital grants to the States. The amount involved, totalling $1,0 17m, is made up of $690m in borrowings and almost $327m in capital grants. The percentage of capital, interest free, no strings tied, grants is definitely on the improve. Overall the funds available to the States and their authorities in 1 974-75 for capital purposes from Loan Councils borrowing programs, Australian Government general purpose and specific purpose payments and estimated borrowings by authorities will amount to one-third more than last financial year. 
If the 8 per cent cut across the board about which the Opposition likes to speak so blithely is put into effect, bearing in mind that the Opposition has said it will increase defence spending and hold education spending, the States will collect a bonanza of a $50m cut in their spending. 
This will mean that the States will be scratching, as the honourable member for Hume suggests they are scratching now. I do not know where he gets his figures because last year Victoria alone returned $8m of its money to the Commonwealth because it could not spend it. The honourable member for Hume spoke also of transport charges being increased and of the very poor services the States are providing. I remind him, although he is not in the House at the moment - 
I thought the honourable member for Hume would have remained during this debate. I remind him that this Government offered to take over completely the Victorian railway system, but that offer was refused. This is a time when all governments, State and Federal, Labor or Liberal, should be trying to co-operate so that the changes that are bringing such advantages to the people could proceed smoothly. We are all mouthing the same words day after day, saying that this nation is facing difficult times. When we face difficult times there should be cooperation. When difficulty arises people usually close ranks and fight together. This is the time when people need houses, builders need work and building material is freely available. The State housing commissions should be accelerating their building programs and not fighting with the Federal Government. Similarly State education authorities should be accelerating the replacement of their run-down schools, not fighting with the Federal Government. This is the time when people and their needs should be paramount. 
I was recently told- the honourable member for Hume again implied it about my colleaguesthat I did not support federalism and that I did not support States' rights. My answer then and my answer now is and always will be that I do not; I support people's rights. They are paramount and they take the place of States' rights and they take the place of the Federal Government's rights. I do not support the rights of a State to obstruct and thwart programs financed by Australian Government money, bearing in mind that this Australian Government was elected to office. The aim of expending money is to produce the goods and services people need, and they need schools, hospitals and houses. Let us hope that the capital grants contained in this Bill will be used wisely in the people's interests and not in an effort to score points over the Australian Government. Let us hope also that for once we might get a little maturity into State and Federal relations instead of the usual reaction we have been getting. Recently in Victoria the Victorian State Health Minister stated rather petulantly that child care centres that accepted Federal money would not get State money. That attitude seems absurd to me. The Victorian State Minister for Transport boycotted the public display of a prototype railway carriage because the Federal Government built it. This is 1974 and people are facing problems. Surely we can face these problems together and move away from such churlish behaviour. 

 Mr CORBETT (Maranoa) ^^^Notwithstanding all my gallantry I must disagree and be at cross-purposes with the honourable member for Henry  (Mrs Child)  who said that she does not support State rights. To give her her due, she said that she supports people's rights. As I see it, in supporting State rights members of the Opposition are supporting the State rights of the people of those States, and this is the fundamental issue. In depriving the States of their rights the Government is depriving the people of the States of the rights they now enjoy. The honourable member for Henty referred also to the Opposition's proposed 8 per cent across the board cut in government expenditure but like other Labor Party members she made her own assessment of what the proposed cuts would involve. Government supporters do not realise that when the Opposition is returned to government it will adopt economic policies which will enable the 8 per cent cut to be made without the drastic results envisaged by Government supporters. 
I agree with the honourable member for Henty when she said that local government bodies should be represented on the Loan Council. She referred also to the activities of the Grants Commission with respect to local government. In view of the funds that the Grants Commission has provided for local government, I believe it has been a dismal failure. I know of some councils that have not received any financial assistance at all. The present Government has taken over responsibility for what it calls national arterial roads but in so doing it has taken funds away from rural arterial roads with the result that shire councils, which were dependent largely for work for their employees on the Main Roads Department, for which they acted as constructing authorities, are now putting off men who have given long and faithful service. This is directly the result of the policies of this Government which is claiming some credit for accepting responsibility for national arterial roads. It has assumed that responsibility at the expense of rural arterial roads and other rural roads, and shire councils are suffering greatly as a result. 
The Grants Commission scheme could have been good but it has turned out to be a real failure. The Grants Commission has been a big disappointment to local governments in Queensland, particularly to those shires which did not receive even one cent. Other shires did get something. 
This Bill is similar to legislation which comes before the House annually. But this year, the aim and thrust of the Bill are different, thus reflecting the attitude of the Government. We must beware. We cannot accept with outward calm the implied threats contained in the legislation. Ever since 2 December 1972, the notes have been slowly dribbling in and the message is clear: The small will be swallowed by the large and the large will be swallowed by the huge. We lament this environment but unless State and local governments unite to repel the invader the incurred wounds of centralis tic control will take a lot of curing. The medicine will be drastic. We must shoulder the burden to overcome the suspicion that permeates the Australian economic and social scene today. 
Let us analyse the position of the States. Table No. 8 which is headed 'Securities on Issue, Australia and Overseas, and Total per Head of Population as at 30 June 1950 to 1974' which appears at page 25 of Budget Paper No. 6, 'Government Securities on Issue at 30 June 1974' is a most enlightening table. I have shown this table to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  who is at the table and, with his agreement, I ask for leave to incorporate that table in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="091131197411133_73_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197411133_74_8.jpg"></graphic>

I am following on the remarks of my colleague, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews).  I draw the attention of the House to a problem that must be shared by all members of the Parliament and particularly by those who live in metropolitan city areas and specifically inner suburban areas, the ones which are usually Labor areas. I am referring to the housing problem and specifically to homes for rental at a rent that people can afford. Every second person who comes into my electorate office is trying to find a home to rent with an option to buy perhaps but they cannot afford to buy a home now. They do not want a flat, even if flats were freely available, which they certainly are not in Melbourne. 
The rents which are being asked in the Melbourne area are between $35 and $40 a week. A man with a wife, 2 children and perhaps one on the way, with a take home pay of $102 a week obviously cannot pay $25 to $40 weekly, even for a modest home. No one can live on his or her pay if one-third of it goes in rent. Such a person would have $67 left for clothes, food, light gas, fares, school books, medical benefits and the host of other things for which families have to pay. So, to pay one-third of one's take home pay in rent is a real killer. 
There is no other single issue in life today that is causing more heartache and tension than inadequate housing. The situation of the family that is cooped up in a small flat, with no play area for the children and no way in which the parents can have some privacy from the rest of the family, breeds a dangerous condition of frustration. Children who are constantly 'shushshushed' because of thin walls and close neighbours lose their spontaneity. Those families who are living in bungalows behind parents' homes are in a similar and frustrated position. Leaking bungalows, caravans, .mildewed bed clothing, and overcrowded accommodation are everyday problems in my electorate. Those who have always been comfortably housed do not even begin to understand the problem. 
Even if a person has $40 a week to spare for rent, just try to rent a house when mentioning that one has children One will find that landlords just are not interested. I cannot imagine where they expect people with children to live. Perhaps they are all dedicated to zero population growth. I rang around real estate agents last week, when the Parliament was not sitting, offering $40 a week in rent, promising to pay the bond money asked, and each time when I said: 'Oh, yes, they have 3 children', I received the same answer 'The owners will not have children'. They do not seem to mind cats and dogs, but children are taboo. 
The plight of the single, elderly person on a fixed income, or on a pension, is desperate. The only accommodation open to them seems to be the one bedroom gerry-built flat at a rent of $22 to $25 a week. I invite honourable members to try living on what they would have left after paying that rent out of a pension; even after the heavy increases that this Government has made available by way of pensions and rent subsidies, it just cannot be done. In addition, every time the pension rate is increased, the landlord puts the rent up. These pensioners could not win any way. 
I might add that, because of the desperation of married couples and elderly people in trying to find a roof over their heads, quite a few new rackets are springing up. It is strange how one person's adversity always becomes a springboard for someone else to make a profit. The racket that I am meeting most often goes something like this: 'Oh, yes, I will rent the house to you. Of course, it is in need of some repair. It needs reblocking and painting, etc. But how about I give you a reduced rent in return for you doing the repairs, the odd bits and pieces needed, and, yes, I will draw up a lease to protect you.' Peter Fitzgerald is writing an article on this matter in the Melbourne 'Herald'. I will refer to it later. 
All goes well while the tenant paints the house, reblocks it and perhaps replaces the hot water system. He is usually just about finished when the owner comes along and the tenant has the choice of getting out or paying a greatly increased rent because the house is now in such good repair. In one of his articles, Peter Fitzgerald writes: 
The Victorian Section Leader of the State Government's Rental Investigation Bureau,  Mr Frederickson,  said: 'This practice is prevalent now in Melbourne as it is whenever there is a housing shortage and people are desperate to have a roof over their heads '. 
That is the key to the situation. Once a shortage exists and people are desperate, the rackets will follow. 
The honourable member for Casey mentioned the bonding racket. This is a really good one. If a landlord has 2 blocks of flats with 10 flats in each block, he has $20,000 in deposits and that money is invested. If a landlord has 2 blocks of flats, usually he has 10, so he probably has closer to $100,000 for investment. He is obtaining interest from that money. But let any tenant try to get his or her bond money back. The tenant could clean the house from ceiling to floor, have it spotless, but the tenant will not get a penny, of that bond money back. As well as the landlord having the advantage of the interest on the investment of the bond money, he has the bond money too. This is a real racket. I have tried to get bond money back for people in my electorate, and I have never been successful. 
When the Opposition is berating the Government for its insistence on subsidising the building of homes for rent, why does it not give some constructive thought to the problem? If all the State housing commissions had a look at the housing problem in all the States and went hell for leather to catch up on the backlog in housing, we would have a whole new situation. If sufficient low rent houses were available, we could bring down the price of rented private houses. If sufficient low rent houses were available, we could stamp out the rackets in renting. If people were not desperate for a roof over their heads all of the sub-standard homes that are being rented at large rates would soon be vacated. People do not live in houses with leaking roofs and rotted floors by choice. If sufficient low rent homes were available, those one bedroom jerry-built flats would soon be empty or rented for what they were worth rather than what the market will bear. If the housing problems could be overcome, rent racketeers and landlord predators could be harnessed. 
Those people who are at present opposing the Family Law Bill could well put some of their energy into looking into the housing problem because fewer marriages would be in danger of breaking down if more people had homes, if more people had room to move in their homes and if more people could rent a home at a price they could afford. This is the start of half of the arguments of married couples. There is no other single problem that causes more misery than inadequate housing. Victoria has a 4-year waiting list for a Housing Commission home. I gather that other States are in much the same position. This problem can be overcome, it should be overcome and it has to be overcome if people are to live ordinary lives. The home is basic to the security of just about every one of us. If one does not have or cannot afford a home everything else just falls to pieces. 
-Some months ago a group of doctors - 
Some months ago a group of doctors in the East Bentleigh area in Victoria put a very detailed submission to the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  for a community health centre. The centre was to be in East Bentleigh and was to have fee-for-service doctors with free paramedical services, both for the doctors who were to be in the centre and for all other doctors in the area who cared to refer their patients to the centre. There is nothing like this centre in our district. From memory, the nearest community centre with similar services would be at the Southern Memorial Hospital in Caulfield, also heavily subsidised by this Government. 
The doctors detailed submission was duly accepted by this Government and a grant of almost $250,000 was made to set up the centre. Land was acquired in East Bentleigh, opposite the Moorabbin Hospital, now in the first stage of building. A public meeting was called. It was held at the Town Hall, Moorabbin, and chaired by the then Mayor. It was very well attended. A full debate on the proposal took place and a vote was taken on whether the community supported a health centre. It was overwhelmingly supported. Only some of the doctors present opposed it. The public meeting elected an interim committee of which I am a member and I, as well as many other people, believed that we were set to get the health centre. Regardless of what the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has to say on this subject, we need a health centre. The honourable member for Hotham says that community health centres have a place but that priority must be given to putting them in areas where there are few doctors. He recommends that they should be built in the western and northern suburbs of Sydney. We need one too. General practitioners do not cope with alcoholism and drug addiction, do not do social work, do not look after the bewildered or the disturbed child and do not go to help families when they are about to break up. 
We need a health centre very badly in this area. The interim committee met and adopted a constitution in accord with the regulations of the Hospitals and Charities Commission. The committee set out to see that the centre would be built and that it would serve the thousands of people in that area. At about this time the Victorian Branch of the Australian Medical Association reared its head again. It is reported in the local newspapers as recommending that doctors do not apply to work in the centre, that they boycott it, and that if the centre does go ahead doctors in the area should advise their patients not to use the free paramedical services which would be provided. 
For how long do we have to put up with the fact that the AMA is telling this community who will have a community health centre and who will not? There is a constant prate about free choice. If there are 60 doctors in East Bentleigh and a health centre is built, the choice has been expanded. It has not been made narrower. I think that most of the doctors are speaking through their pockets. The health centre will serve something like 20,000 people. As there are 101,000 people living in Moorabbin where the health centre is being built, I do not think that the doctors will lack for patients. But what I object to is that they are attempting to take away from the community, which voted for the centre, its right to have it. The next phase was rather interesting. The doctors in the area called a private meeting. That was not very democratic. It was not a public meeting like the one called to discuss the health centre. It was a private meeting and one needed an invitation to get in. But more than that, they had a police guard on the door so that people could not get in. At one time there were 4 carloads of police at the hall. I do not know what they expected the two old ladies who were outside to do. 
It is extremely democratic; my colleague is quite right there. Two cars left. Obviously there was no business. I would like to know to what lengths such people are prepared to go to prevent intrusion into their practice. To what lengths are people prepared to go to prevent the community from enjoying the very obvious benefits of . free paramedical services? What is important here- doctors' profits or people's health? What price is democracy when all opposition is barred from entering a meeting? What happened to free and open debate and what happened to democracy? 
Community health centres are a new concept. They will be with us whether we like them or not. Medicine, like everything else, has to move with the times. As social pressures have built up in society today we cannot expect the general practitioner to be able to cope with them. He tends to the physical complaints of the patients who come to him. It is well recognised that we need social workers, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, chiropodists, home visit nurses and speech therapists freely available to the people who need them. One does not have to live in the northern and western suburbs of Melbourne to be in need of the services which will be offered at the centre. Alcoholics and drug addicts do not all live in the northern and western suburbs of Melbourne. It is an unfortunate fact that they are spread around the community. I imagine that we have them in my electorate too. Broken homes do not just occur in the western and northern suburbs nor do we have disturbed or deliquent children in only the northern and western suburbs. 
This health centre will go ahead because there are enough people in the community at East Bentleigh who are determined that this service will be offered. The doctors' comments that we are duplicating the services of the hospital being built opposite are just a load of rubbish. The money will go to the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission and I am quite sure that with its efficiency it will not see services duplicated. The hospital will provide its services and the health centre opposite will complement the services that are available in the hospital. There is an enormous area in the south-eastern part of Melbourne which is not well serviced by hospitals. In the inner suburban areas and the inner city there is a lot of excellent servicing through hospitals and quite a bit of community servicing, The area to which I have been referring is virtually in a desert. The Southern Memorial Hospital at Caulfield is a magnificent institution but after all it cannot handle the thousands of people who are living around the southern part of Melbourne. 
The health centre will go ahead in spite of the opposition and people will use it in spite of the opposition. I feel that it would be a grave deficiency in our community if we were to revert to the vicious debate that we had last year when the national health scheme was being debated. It did not do any section of the community any good to be torn about by the arguments that went on then. I would not like to see the health centre I am speaking about divide the community. 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. In view of the comments made yesterday on conditions at Johns Consolidated Ltd in Victoria that the firm is crippled and is sacking men day after day, will the Prime Minister give the House the up-to-date facts on Johns, bearing in mind that yesterday's statement could cause Johns serious harm? 
I will answer later the points which the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has raised. I consider this Bill to be another step forward in the Government's 15 point program for the welfare of handicapped people. It is with great regret that I look back on the years that this scheme has been operating and that an overall plan for the welfare of handicapped people was not one of the prime objectives of this Parliament when it first sat. As it is, our welfare program for all kinds of handicapped people has been like Topsy; it has just grown. It has grown through the generosity and willingness of voluntary organisations. 
Had we had enough thought or enough responsibility many years ago, we would have had a fully integrated and balanced program for handicapped and disabled people. In fact, even as far back as 20 years ago, if we had then thought of meeting the recurrent expenditure of such organisations, they would not be in quite the deplorable financial mess that they are in at the moment. But it is a bit late, I suppose, for recriminations. We start off as a Government of only 2 years standing, picking up a certain amount of the neglect that has been apparent over some 23 years. 
The Bill will cater for the needs of both handicapped children and handicapped adults who do need special faculties if we are to help them to rejoin the mainstream of living. I acknowledge that previous governments introduced the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act, which of its kind was good, and the Handicapped Children's (Assistance) Act. But it has been left to this Government to co-ordinate and plan for realism with respect to the needs and wants of handicapped people. It is not enough to introduce a pot-pourri of ideas, fragmented and static, Federal and State, council and voluntary, without following through and expanding the plan to include the needs and wants of the handicapped people. All too often we hear about States rights and Federal rights in this area and community needs. But nobody ever speaks much about the wants of handicapped people themselves. They do have ideas of their own. They do have ideas of self-determination. Their needs do not stand still, and their wants do not stand still. 
What was considered necessary for the care of handicapped people 7 years ago is happily not acceptable by the community or by them now. There is a whole new thrust from handicapped people for involvement and self-determination. Sheltered workshop employment, training and sheltered accommodation are no longer enough. Very many handicapped adults want to and indeed are capable of working in the same jobs as are you and I. They want to do that. They are capable of living in hostels, ground floor flats and houses just as we do. They want a garden too. They want more than just to walk from the sheltered hostel accommodation to the sheltered workshop. They too want a bit of light and shade in their lives. For those who are able to be reasonably independent, we have not catered at all. We have put everyone into the one category. 
This Bill provides a subsidy of $4 for $1 for establishing sheltered workshops for handicapped adults, training centres for handicapped children and hostels for children and adults. The rental subsidy will enable organisations with limited assets to provide facilities, and I hope among these facilities we will see an upsurge of half-way houses where those who had no alternative but to live in hostels or institutions and who want to live alone, can live in a half-way house for long enough to become rehabilitated to the idea of living independently. There is no reason why we cannot build half-way houses, houses, hostels or flats with grab rails around the sink, the stove and the wash basin. There is no reason why part of rehabilitation cannot be learning to cope with lifting a pot off the stove or hanging washing on the line. It is not enough to featherbed people. We must give them the wherewithal to realise their own potential. 
Voluntary organisations in this nation have taken the brunt of the responsibility for handicapped people for years. Without their doing so, I just wonder what would have happened to handicapped people because, as a community, we were very happy to brush them aside. This may be because they have had very little political strength. The load of debt that we owe to such organisations is incalculable. In these days with their overhead rising, it is becoming much more difficult for them to raise funds to meet operational costs. It is easier to get donations for something glamorous or for a new building. When it comes to running costs, money is not attracted quite so easily. 
This Bill also introduces a 50 per cent subsidy for approved staff. I do not quite know where the honourable member for Hotham obtained his figure of a 25 per cent subsidy. With this 50 per cent subsidy, hostels and sheltered workshops will be able to double their staff. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was speaking about the doubled subsidy that is being introduced under this Bill. I think that perhaps the honourable member for Hotham has become a bit confused about it. The doubled subsidy applies not just to the sheltered workshops but to the whole range of prescribed services. It is a huge jump. The Australian Government will also in some cases subsidise 100 per cent of the salaries where new ventures are being established and it will help them to become established. 
The Bill will also assist voluntary organisations to set up activity centres for those too disabled to work in a sheltered workshop. It will encourage greater emphasis on the social interests of the disabled. It will allow voluntary organisations to develop recreational centres and the urgently needed rehabilitation centres, which I also mentioned before dinner, complementary to workshops or activity centres. I would hope also that the subsidies would encourage voluntary organisations to expand their seaside and country farms and houses so that those who work in a city can perhaps live out of the city and commute to their workshop just as any other worker commutes to his job in the city. I would hope that with facilities like these, handicapped people might have the relaxation of weekends spent gardening in their own gardens, with their own pets as we do, or weekends spent perhaps on the beach. 
In the personal day-to-day care of the mentally and physically handicapped, voluntary organisations have shown the way and are well situated to play their role, with understanding and compassion. But we cannot have them scratching for the money for their extended facilities. To be quite honest with the House, I would prefer the money to go straight to the organisations and not, as the honourable member for Hotham suggested, through the States. The States have not shown in other areas the type of co-operation we would need to work through them. In fact, 95 per cent of the grants they received from the Australian Government for the building of special schools has still not been spent after one year of that program has elapsed. I would be a bit worried about the money being spent by the States within the time-table. 
The personal interest and involvement of voluntary organisations is irreplacable. They have the grass roots understanding of the needs of their people. The Australian Government has the financial resources. Working together, we have forged ahead, and with this Bill we will go even further. I make a plea to everyone to understand that all disabled people do not and cannot fall into the one category. Some cannot work at all; some can work in sheltered workshops but many can work just as you and I work. They should have the opportunity to do so. That is why rehabilitation centres are of such tremendous importance. We do not want to go into the 1980s offering to disabled people the same narrow choice that has been theirs during the 1 950s and 1960s. The honourable member for Hotham criticised this Government for some aspects of the Bill that do not quite fall in with his line of thinking. I point out that we have had only 2 years to do what we have done and that he was associated with a government that could have done a lot more for disabled people during the 23 years that it was in office. Our opportunities have expanded and new doors are opening for us; I want the same opportunities for disabled people. 
Recently I went to Ballarat and opened Disabled People's Week. It was quite an innovation for Victoria, and I do not know of such a function being held in Victoria before. It was very well organised and the activities were diversified. 
There were film nights, displays and open houses throughout all Ballarat services. It was mainly organised by disabled people themselves. They are not asking for pity or charity. What they are asking for is that not only employers overcome their prejudices against the disabled people, but that the rest of us who make up the community overcome our prejudice towards them. Those people who feel so much pride in their children's achievements, whether it be their winning a 100 yards dash at primary school or achieving a wellearned Higher School Certificate, will well understand the pride of parents whose mentally handicapped child finally manages to coordinate limbs and brain and climb a few steps. It does not sound much of an achievement, but the pride of his peers and his teachers is something to really share. Those who feel such pride and joy in their children 's accomplishments will understand the joy of parents of a handicapped child hearing their child speak for the first time. 
I have been helping in a voluntary capacity in a kindergarten for mentally retarded children. One of the little girls who attends the kindergarten suffered brain damage following measles. One day she pointed to a picture in a book and identified a duck. She said 'duck'. It was the first time in 18 months that she had been able to speak. When everybody in the room heard the child speak, they almost felt as if they had scaled Mount Everest. Because of the activities which take place with the disabled there is a need for more teachers and more buildings. I think we could work together to make sure that eventually the Federal Government picks up the recurrent expenditures for all the disabled people throughout the entire nation. We will not really have come of maturity until we have done so. 
Success means many things to many people and some successes are more easily won than others. Believe me, that handicapped child saying the word 'duck' was the result of many months of patience, perseverence and persistance by a dedicated band of teachers. We all feel a lot of pride in our family's achievements, and there is nothing different in the pride of parents of handicapped children, be they physically or mentally handicapped. Each child has to have an opportunity to reach his own potential. Sometimes those who are handicapped need more support to be able to reach their potential. This Bill will open the way for more opportunities. 
The voluntary organisations have given this nation a basis for magnificent care for mentally and physically handicapped children and adults. This Bill recognises the value of grass roots work of voluntary organisations. It recognises their understanding, their care and their compassion. But it also recognises that they cannot be left in the 1970s to go it alone. They have to go it with us, and they have to go it with Federal finance. 
-This is the first time I have heard an elected government being spoken of as a government imposed upon the people. It is quite a new idea. I should like again to comment on the East Bentleigh community health centre to which I referred last week. Almost a year has elapsed since the announcement by  Dr Everingham  that a sum of $270,000 had been approved for the establishment of a community health centre in East Bentleigh. A further sum of $173,000 has been allocated for the 1974-75 period. There has been continuing support for the project from the Commonwealth and State governments, leading health planners and administrators at all levels, the Victorian faculty of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, many doctors, both general and specialist, throughout Australia, academics, economists, health evaluators, allied health professionals and almost every member of the local community. 
Last week in this House I spoke of the protest organised by doctors in East Bentleigh who arranged a private meeting for which a person required an invitation to attend. I am told that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  received an invitation and was present and that two local State Liberal members,  Mr Suggett  and  Mr Reese  were also invited and were present. The honourable member for Hotham has gone on record as saying that community health centres do have a place but they should be given a priority and put in areas where there are few doctors and few other health services. East Bentleigh does not agree with him. The doctors who have organised the protest have lodged appeals with the local government about the construction of the centre. They are solidly in opposition to our building this centre. They speak of it as a backdoor attempt to nationalise private doctors. They also say it takes away the freedom of choice from the people of East Bentleigh. At the public meeting called to support this centre it was agreed- not unanimously because some of the protesting doctors were present- that this was widening the choice. It was agreed also that health centres filled a community need. I think it might be to the benefit of the public if some of the protesting doctors and some of the Liberal members who were invited to the doctors' meeting considered why the community needs a community health centre. 
Many people in the local community are desperately in need of the services to be provided by the health centre. Specific documented cases can be produced by local general practitioners, church organisations, community welfare groups, the Royal District Nursing Service and the East Bentleigh police concerning emotional difficulties, suicide, chronic illness, psychiatric disorders, mental retardation, alcoholism, drug abuse, marital disruption, one-parent families, physical handicap, school drop-outs, juvenile delinquency, preventable criminal behaviour and multiple psycho-social economic and family problems associated with many common physical ailments, whose needs are not being met by the existing general practitioner service or by the public or voluntary community agencies. The doctors' opposition is, I think, based on deeply emotional and mostly irrelevant arguments which, though we can readily refute them, are strongly held because of entrenched attitudes against change. 
The community health centre idea is not really a change. One was set up in Victoria more than 100 years ago and it was reasonably successful. But the doctors seem to be extremely resistant to any change that affects them. I think it is time they learned to accept new ideas. Perhaps if they examined the reasons why we want a community health centre they would change their attitude somewhat. We can always learn. There are many reasons why we want this centre. One relates to communication and another is because it is accessible. The combined services put together are more readily accessible in a single building. The functions will be shared. The centre will have 6 doctors. We will get the doctors because there are enough doctors in East Bentleigh who have a concern for and an acceptance of the community health centre. We will get 6 doctors on a feeforservice basis and they will share the functions of family counselling, emergency treatment, immunisation and infant welfare. Preventive activity can be carried on in a community health centre. Such activity has no relation to a general practitioner's very busy practice. There is a lot of community involvement with a health centre and the centre needs the feedback from the local community about all the aspects of care that it provides. It is also necessary from the point of view of community visibility. At present the community clearly defines the doctor's surgery as a place where it can seek help or advice if necessary when people are physically sick. But the common facility allows a similar identification of other health workers which is reinforced by their service activities emanating from the one building. It becomes a unit operating for both physical and mental disorders. 
Patients who require certain services such as psychiatric services and family planning are stigmatised when they are forced to attend a separate facility from that which serves other members of the local community with other forms of health care. By placing as many forms of health care as is possible in a given community in the one building this stigma is removed. Also, others in the community attending the centre for different reasons come to understand better the problems of those who have mental disorders, the problems of those less fortunate than themselves. They understand by direct contact, by community involvement. 
I would ask those doctors who are setting themselves up in opposition to what is the will of the people in East Bentleigh- and it is the will of the people, because the meeting was very well attended and very well publicised- to have another good look at just what we are hoping to do. For instance, we hope to set up a trainee education program in the health centre. The education of trainees- undergraduates and continuingfrom all of the health disciplines is facilitated and made more effective at the one site from which all members of the health team practice. The team concept of health care cannot be demonstrated under other circumstances. Students lose the train of care when they are moved from one site to another and continuity with regard to individual patients or cases is lost. 
Our centre will be built opposite a major hospital. We will not be duplicating services, we will be complementing the services of the hospital opposite. We are hoping to have medical students from Monash University training in our hospital and they will also have the advantage of education through the health centre that will be built. The preventive activities of a health centre are important. Personal advice is usually more effective than advice given to a group. Effective preventive activity by health professionals in a one to one relationship remains minimal at present. There are just not enough services available. Sharing of preventive work using support between health professionals is possible in a shared health centre facility. Some preventive activity requires direct supervision by the doctor, and this cannot occur in a split facility. I believe that the people of East Bentleigh are entitled to have a community health centre if they have the need, and I do not agree that only the northern and western suburbs of the city have the need. I think there is a very great need for a new concept of medicine in just about every region. If the communities can get the finance they are entitled to have a health centre, and this community has got the finance. If they want a health centre they are entitled to have one and they will have one. I am pleased to be able to say that the centre will have doctors because the doctors who have come to the committee meetings have expressed a deep and genuine interest in the centre and a willingness to make it work. 
-Before speaking to the Nursing Homes Assistance Bill and the Homeless Persons Assistance Bill I tell the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  that I do not consider him a male chauvinist but I think I know the reason why there are more homeless men than women. It is because society designed women but not men to be home makers. They cling tenaciously to about the only thing that society has left them. There are a lot more homeless men than women. 
Yes, home makers, and so we cling to our homes. 
But that is what society designed women to be. I do not say that I agree with it, because I do not. I would not be here if I did. I had better get on with the debate on the Bills. The Homeless Persons Assistance Bill arose through the interested commitment of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who moved very quickly after taking over his portfolio to set up research into vagrants or homeless men. During the collection of material it became very obvious to him that there were many groups of homeless and helpless people with literally no help available to them. So out of that original interest we now have the Homeless Persons Assistance Bill. Whilst at this stage it does not apply to all those groups which are homeless or which need temporary help- those groups which our society has forgotten- it also does not exclude them. It does not exclude the possibility of their being considered as funds become available. We are an odd community in that we spend millions of dollars in enforcing the laws but we do not bother to spend money- or we spend very little- on rehabilitation. 
I recently heard of a very tragic case of a 42- year-old alcoholic homeless ex-seaman who spent a portion of every week in Pentridge Gaol, and one night of every week in the local police station. We arranged to have him collected outside Pentridge when he was released but we could never hold him long enough to get him into a rest home to be rehabilitated. He went through the cycle of the local police station, Pentridge and then out on methylated spirits, kerosene, melted down boot polish or anything he could get his hands on. But the interesting point is that he always returned to the same local police station so that, even though homeless, his security was always associated with the cycle of the police station, a bath, food, Pentridge and a roof over his head. He had nowhere to go. He met his end a few weeks ago. He was run down by a car when staggering across to his only security, the local police station. He was killed. Apart from the police station there was really nowhere for him to go.  His  case was hopeless right from the beginning. The police had no facilities to offer him, other than a bath, some dry clothes and a meal. In other cases like this I have found the police to be particularly understanding of the man or men. 
No Government money, or very little, is spent on counselling, providing treatment, nutrition, rehabilitation or on any of the supports which are needed to get such a man back on his feet and out of the reverse rat race which he has entered. Such a person has nowhere to go but down because there is no help for him. There is no program to meet the material needs of homeless men and women. They are without support, without income and without hope. Once they are without hope they have nothing. This Bill will assist eligible organisations to provide temporary accommodation and help for those who through alcoholism or domestic conflict are lonely. Often these lonely or introverted people cannot join groups, and they finish up homeless. For years such centres have been providing meals for homeless people. They will get a subsidy for the cost of the food and for the cost of the night's lodging. 
This is a 3-year program. It is really an experimental program. I hope that it will be researched thoroughly so that we can learn from the program as it is put into operation just why so many men and, increasingly, women are homeless. The 3-year program will involve updating existing facilities, expanding treatment which is almost non-existent and building more accommodation. It should be regarded by the community as an involved experiment. It will be almost worse than useless if it does nothing more than hand out a meal or a bed to people who need those things without finding out why they need them and what started them on that downward pattern so that they have become like my alcoholic seaman who had nowhere to go. We have to find out why so many people need assistance and what faults lie with us or with society that there are so many. 
I hope that as the program unrolls we can see this experience used in other areas. I am glad to see that the legislation is reasonably flexible. I hope that we will be able to finance half-way houses for those women and children who live in fear of being beaten, and who are probably being beaten daily or frightened of being beaten daily. In fact they have nowhere to go to get away from this situation. People sometimes wonder why the women stays with the man. Where can she go? She has no money. She has children to look after. She has to have a roof over her head. Where does she go? Half-way houses are absolutely necessary because if a woman goes home to her sister or to her mother her husband finds her. I know he finds her because I have been out several times trying to shelter women from their husbands. I have not got a beating yet, but I suppose that could come. Halfway houses are a desperate need. I believe that they fit into this Bill where they do not fit into any other one. 
I hope also that the program will eventually recognise and cope with the problems of the men and women who batter their children either physically or mentally. I hope that they can be given counselling and support to help them withstand their own emotions and help them understand their own emotions. Those parents who make up Parents Anonymous show a tremendous amount of courage in acknowledging their own deep psychological problems and the fact that they batter their children either physically or mentally, but we do not give them any help. They need half way houses, some counselling and some relief, from the strain that they are under day in day out. Anyone who has had four or five children in pretty poor circumstances understands exactly what these people are going through. They are not cruel people. They do not stand apart from you and me. We do not stand superior to them or people who have other special problems. We do not give them any place to go for help with their problems. 
As usual, we have had to rely, in helping just about all the people I have mentioned, on the voluntary and charitable organisations. They are closest to the people who need counselling and treatment, who need rest and nutrition and who need an opportunity to return to a normal life. I hope we will always provide finance through such organisations. I hope that we break up our care and treatment into smaller units dotted around more centres so that these places do not get an institutionalised air about them. I agree with the honourable member for Hotham that institutionalisation will not help rehabilitate anyone. I am not too sure about the need for the homeless men to have the care or love of a good woman because in the last 2 years I have come in contact with a number of these men who have had very happy childhoods with parents with whom they had good communication, and they have still hit skid row. So I do not know whether the love of a good woman can save a man from everything. 
Let me return to how this Bill got off the ground. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stated in April in the period before we went to the polls this year: 
This program is devised in response to a much neglected need: It will be of benefit to the young as well as the old. It will be of benefit to any person in immediate need: To the permanently homeless, to the deserted or disturbed woman and her children, to the Aboriginal or teenager in want or distress, to the battered woman or the battered child, to the single parent- in short, to anyone without support or an income. 
I am taking that statement to mean that no one will be excluded from this legislation. The Bill does not exclude anyone and I believe that the Prime Minister did not intend that any groups of people would be excluded as this program unfolded. I see it as running in co-operation with the much needed community health centres which are now being set up. Such half way houses for the victims of rape, members of Parents Anonymous, homeless men or beaten women, will run very well pivoting around the community health centres because there they will have all the paramedical servicesphysiotherapy, counselling, social work and nursing treatment- that will be needed by the homeless, the disturbed and the battered. I see them complementing each other. I hope that the honourable member for Hotham will take this into account when he is opposing the building of community health centres because such centres can be complementary to voluntary organisations and to the work that needs to be done among the homeless, the helpless and the hopeless. 
It was a bit hard to follow the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  because he wandered a fair way from the Bill, so I will take the same liberty. He pointed out that one portion of the Bill makes him sick, and that is the portion that says that the Bill includes provisions to enable the Minister, where he believes it to be in the contributors' interest, to request an organisation to show cause why it should not be investigated in relation to specified matters. I cannot see why that should make him sick unless it is the health insurance people about whom he is so concerned and not the contributors' interest. This Government has always taken it upon itself to look after the contributor. It does not fight the battles of the Australian Medical Association, the health benefit funds, the doctors or the General Practitioners' Society, as the honourable member for Hotham takes it upon himself to do and as he has done ever since national health was thought of by this Government. 
The fact that there are millions of dollars in the reserves of those funds does not make him sick. I think the director who has just been in court earns something like $32,000 a year, so I would hardly say that he is working on a voluntary basis or that he is a philanthropist. This Bill is designed to take up the slack between what we have operating now and what will operate when the national health plan is implemented in July. The honourable member's definition of 'fanaticism ' was rather interesting because I thought we had a display of fanaticism when the honourable member for Hotham was speaking. He has been fanatical in his opposition to the National Health Bill and anything to do with the National Health Bill since it was first introduced. I think he was the one who said that he would go to the barricades to fight against it if it were to be introduced. This means that he is prepared to go to the barricades to fight against the national health plan that was endorsed by the people of Australia in 1972, endorsed again in 1974 and endorsed at the Joint Sitting of the Senate and the House of Representatives. I would have imagined that that is the democratic process in line with the Australian Constitution. It has been thrice endorsed. The honourable member for Hotham is prepared to go to the barricades to fight against it and is evidently prepared to fight in support of the medical health funds to get rid of the provisions - 
-A double dissolution? 
How democratic can one get? 
The honourable member is also taking part in assisting the doctors to oppose the building of a local community health centre in my electorate. They are acting very democratically, I must say. A public meeting was held to set up the community health centre. It was endorsed again by the people. But once again big brother, in the form of the AMA aided by the honourable member for Hotham, has told the people of East Bentleigh that they will not have a health centre. Then the doctors held their democratic meeting from which they excluded anyone who did not agree with them, including me, and I am on the committee for the health centre. The honourable member for Hotham was graced with an invitation. I am not sure whether that was a compliment. 
The millions of dollars that are held in reserve by the funds need supervision. When the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  was the Minister for Health he stated: 
In addition to the new measures which I have just mentioned, the Government is considering the introduction of legislation providing for penalties to be imposed on funds' officers for serious neglect of their responsibilities, and enabling the replacement of funds' officers by appointed managers in certain circumstances, as proposed in the Nimmo Committee's recommendation. 
So it is nothing new that this Government also feels that contributors and the reserves of money must be guarded. The recommendation of the Nimmo Committee to which the former Minister for Health referred reads as follows: 
That organisations and their officers be subject to penalties for any failures to comply with the conditions imposed by and under the National Health Act. 
I believe that until the national health plan of this Government is in operation it is as well- it is a watchdog for the Australian people and the Australian contributors- that health benefit organisations have some sort of eye put on them. After all, they hold millions of dollars in reserve. It is the contributors' money. Health benefit contributions are consistently increased. I do not know how often they have been increased but I know that my children, who are apprentices, are paying something like $29 every 3 months for health insurance. Why do they not receive the benefit of some of the millions of dollars that are held in reserve? 
The health benefit organisations could not have grown to their present significance nor could they have continued to operate except for the very generous support that comes from Government sources directly and indirectly, and that is people's money. If people's money is involved the Government not only has a right but also has a responsibility and a duty to make sure that the people's money is protected. This Bill is an interim measure. I do not quite understand why the honourable member for Hotham has gone off about it. Perhaps it is because the proceedings are being broadcast and 40,000 people are listening. That makes a difference. The national health program and everything connected with it has been attacked and vilified by the AMA, the General Practitioners Society, individual doctors and all who have a vested interest in maintaining the present chaotic system that grew up under 23 years of Liberal government. I repeat that the scheme has been endorsed by the people twice. But that does not mean a thing to members of the Opposition. The honourable member for Hotham said that he would call for another double dissolution. The national health scheme has been the butt of a deliberate campaign of deceit and misrepresentation of the program such as seldom has been seen in this country. If the honourable member for Hotham is going to fight at the barricades against the proposal for a universal health program he will be fighting against the people's decision. He will be fighting against things that the people of this country have endorsed. I would like to refer to something that  Senator Steele  Hall said at the Joint Sitting, when this program was again endorsed in line with the provisions of the Australian Constitution. He said: 
I believe the former members of the Parliament who have been returned should support the result of this Joint Sitting. There is no other way to look at Australian democracy. 
This health Bill and all connected with it have been endorsed. He said: 
Not to do so would be to deny constitutional representative government in Australia and to set up a dictatorship in a House which is not based on that form of representation. 
I do not agree with all that the honourable senator said but I agree that there is no other way to look at Australian democracy. I agree with the honourable member in most of what he said but I think that all members, old and new, should be tied by the democratic principles of the Parliament, and not just the old members of the Parliament who forced a double dissolution. Honourable members will remember that the National 
Health Bill was specifically mentioned in the reasons for a double dissolution- 'Get a mandate from the people' we were virtually told, and that is what we did do. The people endorse this concept of national health. They endorse the concept of community health centres. The contents of this Bill which will carry us through until we bring in our own national health scheme, will ensure that this Government will protect the contributors to the national health funds from the rapacious interests of the national health funds. 
If the community was not confused about what Medibank means before the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  stood up to speak, it certainly will be confused now. In fact, I am not quite sure whether he set out deliberately to get the community confused about what Medibank represents or whether he himself is confused about it. This Bill will provide an easy changeover from existing arrangements for health insurance to the new Medibank plan. The House has already passed this Bill, has already debated it and everyone should be pretty well aware of what it means. The Senate predictably rejected it. However, it is proposed that the scheme will come into operation on 1 July and will cover the whole Australian community. 
The Bill is important. It is important and most desirable that it is passed. But Medibank can come into operation and can function without further legislation. Pensioners will profit from Medibank. There is no question of that. It is quite unreasonable for the honourable member for Chisholm to speak of pensioners suffering under this scheme. At the moment pensioners participate only in general practitioner services. Under Medibank this will be widely expanded. The one million people whom the Opposition consistently speaks about who cannot afford the ever increasing cost of private health insurance will benefit from Medibank. These are the people who will benefit- the pensioners and the one million who cannot afford to be covered. 
It is no use members of the Opposition consitently saying that the hospital side of Medibank will cover only public hospitals. At present those who are not coverered cannot get into a hospital for treatment at all. They cannot have the operations they need so desperately. Medibank will make sure that we look after those who cannot afford to look after themselves. The Opposition has frequently spoken of its concern for those now excluded from coverage. I would have expected members of the Opposition to be quite pleased with the provisions within this Bill if they were genuine in their concern. 
Pensioners now get free general practitioner consultation. Their medical attention will be expanded into specialist services, procedural and diagnostic services as well as consultations. Medibank will take a load of worry off the shoulders of those who hold medical entitlement cards, or ordinary medical cards as we know them in Victoria. But the first and main objective of Medibank will be to ensure that every Australian, regardless of his ability to pay, will have automatic security against the cost of medical and hospital treatment. If one has never been in a position where one cannot afford medical or hospital treatment one will not understand what that will mean to the people of Australia. Nonpensioners who are being subsidised heavily by their families for nursing home care will welcome this Medibank scheme like manna from heaven. If one has subsidised a member of one's family who is a non-pensioner in a nursing home one will know exactly what this will mean. 
The honourable member for Chisholm kept reiterating that the Government will have to increase taxation to pay for this scheme. I suggest to the honourable member for Chisholm, who has now left the chamber, that his Party should forget about putting up taxes.  His  Party is dedicated to reducing taxation, probably by not giving medical or hospital benefits and by reducing pensions and social security services. I believe tertiary allowances are now to be involved in the proposed cuts. No doubt child care will be the next on the list. I think the honourable member should give up any talk about putting up taxes. The honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  said that the Australian Labor Party does not help the private health insurance funds. This Party gave more help than any other government has ever given. In 1971-72 the previous Government met 56 per cent of the average medical benefit refund. The year before that it was 54 per cent and the year earlier 46 per cent, so the proportion was raised a bit. This Government met 58 per cent of the average cost of medical benefit refunds and this year we will allocate $185m towards propping them up- $22m more than last year. So I think we can disregard the suggestion that we do not help private health funds. 
We shall extend the additional Australian Government nursing home payments, now applying to those entitled to pensioner medical services, to all qualified nursing-home patients. (Quorum formed) Is the Opposition prepared to bear the responsibility for denying this type of help to people who need it? This Government is not. I ask honourable members opposite to be reasonable. This is not a program for nationalised medical and hospital services. 
The honourable member for Chisholm predictably once again dragged out the socialist bit. The socialists are not trampling over the community; we are setting up a program to protect the health care of every Austraiian within the community. Medibank will not interfere with the freedom of the patient-doctor, doctor-doctor, patient-patient and patient-nurse etc. freedom. It will extend the services. Everyone will get automatic coverage for private practice fee for service medical treatment. There will be complete freedom of choice of doctor by the patient. Every time anything to do with national health is discussed the same old bogey man is dragged out and shaken out- he must be worn out by now. It is said that we will not have freedom of choice of our doctor, we will go onto a list and we will become a number on a card in a pocket. This is so much hooey and it is time the Opposition stopped trying to fool the people who are interested in national health and who have voted for national health. It is time the Opposition tried explaining and not frightening. 
Under the Government scheme a person may choose his doctor. What if his doctor does not come into the Medibank scheme? If the family GP does not wish to be part of the Medibank scheme a person does not have to find a new doctor. A family doctor does not have to be part of Medibank. All he has to do is to provide the patient with an itemised account of his services so that the patient can claim the benefit. But the doctor has always done that anyway. The Government is not asking him to do something new. He has always done this under the voluntary scheme. If the doctor does not wish to accept assignment benefit in full settlement of his account he does not have to. If his fees are higher than the return the patient gets from Medibank the patient pays it. If that is what the patient wants to do he may go ahead and pay the difference. But no one is interfering with the patient's freedom to choose his doctor. No one is telling the doctor where he will or will not practice. In fact no one could get away with that if one tried. 
I turn now to what this Bill does. Firstly, it provides for the cessation of the payment of Australian Government medical and hospital benefits under the National Health Act. Secondly, it provides for the manner in which existing health insurance organisations will phase out their National Health Act operations. Organisations ceasing operations under the National Health Act will be eligible to seek authorisation to conduct health insurance business under legislation supervising health insurance. This will be introduced later in the sittings. Thirdly, its provisions recognise that with the pending introduction of Medibank some existing medical and hospital funds may have difficulties continuing then- viable financial operations. 
To meet these situations clause 19 provides for Medibank to conduct private medical and hospital insurance to the extent necessary to ensure that the interests of contributors are fully protected during the changeover period. Finally, and most importantly- I hope the Opposition will not vote against this Bill and try to deprive the community of this provision- the Bill provides for the Australian Government to assume liability for nursing home benefits at present paid by registered hospital benefit funds to insured non-pensioner patients. That will be achieved by extending the additional Australian Government nursing home payment now applying to pensioners with medical cards to all qualified nursing home patients. That alone makes the Bill well worth supporting. 
The failure to pass this Bill would cause some disadvantage, perhaps, to other sections of the community, but to the patients in nursing homes who are not pensioners or the pensioners who cannot get into nursing homes it is going to mean a capsizing of their hope of health for the future. It is not those of us who have our health now and those of us who can afford to contribute to medical and hospital benefit funds for whom we are legislating today; we are legislating for the pensioners and the one million Australians in our affluent country who cannot afford to cover themselves for medical and hospital benefits. If the Opposition continues to block the passage of this Bill it will have to hold itself responsible for such personal losses, which in some cases could be substantial, as may occur. If some States continue to block the introduction of this Bill the governments of those States will have to hold themselves responsible for the grief and worry such an action causes to the people who live in those States. 

 Mr O'KEEFE (Paterson) "(3. 16)- I rise to oppose the National Health Bill. In his second reading speech the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has set out why the Bill has been brought back into this chamber and has covered its objectives. The Bill, of course, has been well and truly debated in this chamber previously. No doubt the debate today will go over some of the ground which has been mentioned previously in this House. The present health scheme covers 90 per cent of the people of Australia. There are only a few areas which are not catered for in the existing scheme. They are to be found in the pensioner field and the paramedical field. 
This Bill, which has been introduced by the Government, is based on a scheme devised by 2 academic economists, not by doctors or even by people experienced in health administration. The reason why it was devised had nothing to do with the quality of health care and it will do nothing to increase the quality of health care available. In fact, in my opinion it could tend to reduce medical and hospital standards in this country. The original report of the 2 economists- the Deeble-Scotton report- in the 1960s was in fact a piece of economic research that was conducted in an attempt to find a method of controlling the expanding cost of the delivery of health care services. Then came the adoption by the Australian Labor Party- the present Government- of the Deeble-Scotton proposals, which it allied with its own socialistic ideology. The Bill which we are debating is a nationalistic, socialistic piece of legislation. That perhaps can be best expressed in the health area by the statement that the availability of health care to all individuals free of cost at the point of consumption is a right of those individuals. The present Bill is a blank cheque which no country can afford and which this country in particular, with the present economic situation with which it is faced, cannot afford. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no substance in the point of order raised by the honourable member for Kingston. The subject of Medibank has been discussed by every  speaker  in the debate on this Bill. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  in opening the debate on this Bill on behalf of the Opposition, attacked the provisions of the Bill, as he and his Party have consistently attacked every move that this Labor Government has made in providing assistance for the low income groups. They have even made attacks on Medibank. Honourable members opposite all seem to have misread the Bill. It is useless for them to insist that the powers already exist for the State housing authorities to do what this Bill will do. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  was also under the impression that the States could take over the role of the proposed Australian Housing Corporation. Honourable members opposite show a touching faith in the State housing authorities, one in which I would not join them. The truth of this matter is that the States cannot bridge the gap that exists for so many people between the deposit required to purchase a house and the price of a house. The State housing authorities do not have the authority under the State Acts to provide this money. All too many home buyers are forced to take second mortgages which they cannot afford. The Housing Corporation could help out with a second mortgage at a price that the home buyer could afford. If honourable members opposite have so much faith in the State housing authorities they might try to get the States to use the powers that they already have to control the price of land within their borders. This would be a far greater help to home buyers than consistently opposing the ideas that this Government comes up with to help home buyers. The State housing authorities have done better out of this Government than out of any preceding Liberal-Country Party government. Despite all the talk that we hear from the Liberal and Country Party members, this Government has treated the State housing authorities with a generosity that our predecessors were never interested in showing. 
The Australian Government has wide powers in the housing field. For instance, it can directly house migrants, students, Aborigines, persons engaged in work for the Australian Government and residents of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Similarly, by the use of the family allowance provisions in the Australian Constitution, the Australian Government can provide financial assistance to families. While the Australian Government has these powers, previous governments have made no attempt to harness and direct those powers to the benefit of the Australian people. That is a fact; it is not an opinion. Certainly the Australian Government has always been active in providing financial assistance for housing to certain groups in the community, including the poor, the aged, migrants, Aborigines and suitably qualified past and present members of the armed Services. 
In addition, the Australian Government also provides relief from high interest rates to mortgage holders through the tax deductibility of mortgage interest scheme. It is interesting to note that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has never passed an opinion on whether he will or will not continue this tax deductibility of mortgage interest scheme in the unlikely event that he ever leads a government. The Australian Government provides a cash grant to eligible young people obtaining their first home, though this is being phased out in favour of other forms of assistance. But this is where the involvement ends. To say that we are attempting to take over control of the State housing authorities is an extraordinary argument to use in this debate. Why would we give them so much more money each year if we intend to phase them out? If we want to get rid of them, why do not we decrease the amount of money that we are making available? It is a very odd procedure that we have adopted to phase out the State housing authorities. 
We have already entered into a 5-year agreement with the State housing authorites in which we have more than doubled the allocations for both State housing homes and homes built under the Home Builders Account, since the allocation was made in 1972-73. There is no intention to supplant or ease out the State housing authorities, or indeed the building societies. There is no intention in this Bill to supplant or usurp the role of private enterprise in the building industry. 
Indeed, the provisions of this Bill will take up the slack in housing where private enterprise does not or cannot function. They will take up the slack concerning the deposit gap and rented homes. We all are aware of the desperate shortage of homes available for rent at a moderate price. Indeed, in the Melbourne 'Herald' recently Peter Fitzgerald published a very frank series of articles on the hardship caused to many families who suffer through savage rentals. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  referred to  Mr Dedman  and to a remark that he made about 'little capitalists'. That is typical of what I would expect to hear from a member of the Country Party. The honourable member is referring to something that happened 30 years ago and is applying it to today. Time moves and opinions, climates and society and community attitudes change. 
It should be noted by this House that not only hardship and misery are caused by high rents, but also the door is left wide open for exploitation of the very people most in need. This Australian Labor Party Government is intent on ensuring that people are housed. In some States the Landlord and Tenant Acts give no protection at all to tenants. They are at the mercy of the landlord's integrity. Rented homes are in great shortage. Once a shortage exists, rent rackets emerge. When voting on this Bill honourable members should remember that there is no other single problem in life today which threatens the family as much as inadequate housing. There is no other single issue which causes more heartache and misery than insecurity in housing. To pay onethird of the take-home pay in rent is a real killer. The Australian Housing Corporation will allow the Government to move further into the Housing field. Its advent, however, will not mean the end of our present schemes, but it will allow much of the Australian Government expenditure on housing to be put under one roof. It is not the intention to use the Corporation to supplant the role of the State housing authorities, a point which I have already made. 
A main objective of the Australian Housing Corporation is to use the powers available to the Australian Government to complement the private financial institutions to assist persons in acquiring their own home; not to stop them from doing so. The majority of housing transactions are financed by the private financial institutions, and their efforts are to be applauded. Even so, there are many persons who cannot obtain a loan suitable to their requirements because of their own financial position or because of the lending policies of these institutions. Furthermore, persons paying off their own loan or persons renting accommodation often find that, because of changed circumstances they are experiencing severe difficulty in meeting their commitments. Again, some persons are quite capable of meeting repayment commitments of a housing loan but are not able to obtain a loan because of a lack of sufficient savings history. It is in areas such as these that the Australian Government is keen to assist. These are not areas in which the State housing authorities can or will assist. The Australian Housing Corporation will be the vehicle for putting these desires into practice. Although it will be engaged in areas which traditionally had been the preserve of private enterprise, the Corporation will complement, not compete with, the private financial institutions which lend for housing. 
The home building industry in Australia is one of conservatism. New techniques of construction take ages to filter through before they win popular accord. This is only to be expected, for a mistake in misjudging public acceptance can often send a builder bankrupt. But the Australian Housing Corporation, with all the research backing of the Department of Housing and Construction and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, can take a lead in new construction techniques. It will be in a position to be an innovator in housing construction both of a technical and social nature. It will give the Australian Government a powerful weapon in improving the housing standards of our population. In the past, the Government has had both hands tied behind its back in this regard. 
Australia is a collection of regions. When figures are produced which tell us that housing activity, on the whole, has increased, decreased or stabilized, regional differences are skated over. These regions are economic cells in thenown right and have their own financial and industry systems and their economic wellbeing is influenced by different factors and to different degrees by Australian Government action. For instance, Cairns is affected differently from the western suburbs of Sydney. Home building activity may be thriving in one region and dead in another region. To provide a financial input into these 'dead' regions to promote housing activity will be within the scope of the Australian Housing Corporation and it will operate along these lines as the need and its budget allow. 
Those then are some of the reasons for establishing the Australian Housing Corporation. A body along these lines is very long overdue. The Bill represents an honest expression of the Government's intentions. It provides direct links with private enterprise. It retains the identity of the defence service homes scheme. It is true that the defence service homes scheme will move into the Australian Housing Corporation but it will not disappear as an identity. It will retain an identity of its own. The Australian Housing Corporation in fact will operate together with the defence service homes scheme. It will use the momentum and the experience of the defence service homes scheme, already extended and expanded under this Government, to cover returned personnel who were not covered previously. But the defence service homes scheme will be retained as a separate unit within the Corporation. 
It is an innovating Bill with a flexibility that enables it to move into areas of need into which the Government has never before moved. The Corporation can, for example, make subsidies to charitable organisations, such as the Brotherhood of St Laurence, for the provision of housing for needy families. It can subsidise building, rents, land and relax repayments in times of unemployment or illness. I would like to hear anyone tell me that the State housing authorities can or will do that. It is a Bill of compassion and it is a Bill of vision. It will open up new concepts of welfare care with far less rigidity than we have seen previously. It will mop up areas of need which have never before fitted into any category, and there are many such areas. It is a timely Bill and it has a laudable philosophy. I am sure that it will be greeted by the community with quite a lot of joy 
I have in my own electorate a number of areas where rented houses run at about $45 to $50 a week. They are about the only homes available, and there are people in my electorate who are forced into rented nouses. Much as we would all like to have our own house, put in our own gardens and our own concrete paths, the sheer facts of life are that we all cannot raise a deposit to buy a house. That has been the situation not just in the last 2 years since the Labor Government came to power; it has been the situation in the community for many years. We cannot all buy a house. This Bill gives a bit of vision to those people who have to rent a house as to what could be done. 
I do not think that the honourable member for Darling Downs need look with such suspicion at the regulations which the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  will introduce. I do not think the Minister is plotting the takeover of every State housing authority in Australia. I congratulate the Minister and also his Department for the innovating thoughts behind this Bill. It has been long overdue. Australia lags very far behind comparable countries in looking for flexibility within the home building area. I hope that the Bill will be passed in both Houses and that the forces of reaction and conservatism will for once open their minds to a new idea and look at a new idea rather than being frightened of it. It is a vision designed to give help in areas in which previously no help has been available. State housing authorities do not fill the bill, good and all as some of the actions are that they take. I do give credit to the fact that Victoria is doing the best it can in extreme difficulties. 
Before concluding my remarks, I point out that the preceding Liberal-Country Party Government was in power in the Federal sphere for 23 years and in that entire 23 years it produced no policy whatsoever for housing those people who cannot afford to buy their own homes. It produced no ideas and no policy on rented homes. The simple fact is that the Opposition does not care about people who cannot afford to buy a home. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of any recent developments which might impede the constitutional freedom of any Australian political party to organise and advance its policies in any or every Australian State and Territory? 
I think it is just as well that the proceedings of the House are not being broadcast this afternoon. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  was bemoaning the fact that he was not being heard but those listening would have been slightly confused as to which Bill was being discussed in the House. I am sure they would have thought, as you pointed out  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that we were discussing Medibank. It has been obvious every time any aspect of the National Health Bill has been discussed inside this House or outside this House that the honourable member for Hotham becomes quite paranoiac about it. 
This is a familiar Bill to this House as it was introduced in December 1974. The provisions of the Bill relating to supervision of health insurance organisations were also passed in this House but defeated in the Senate. The Government agreed to the deletions when the Bill was returned to this House because other sections of the Bill were of great importance to the Australian people. These related to certain medical and surgical aids and appliances. We did not want the Senate's obstructive practices to deprive individuals of the benefits they so urgently needed so we approved the Bill with its amendments. However, the Government believes that it must protect the rights of contribu- torsinthehealthinsuranceorganisations.Ithas re-introduced this Bill to make sure that the rights of the people are protected. It is always so odd that we hear so much about protecting the rights of the States. We do not hear very much from the Opposition about the protection of the rights of the people. I did not and I do not believe that State rights are in any way nearly as important as people 's rights. 
Consumers or contributors do not have representation on the bodies managing open funds. They do not have any say in how funds are operated. It is all the more important that the government has some voice in the operation of health insurance funds when we remember the extremely generous direct and indirect government subsidies to such funds. The health insurance organisations could not operate without generous government support. They could not have grown to their present strength without government support. While government money strongly supports such organisations the government is in a position whereby it cannot query any level of wages paid by the health insurance bodies. It cannot query the amount consumed by management expenses. It cannot question a fund 's investment policy and neither can its contributors. 
The government has no effective control over the individual items comprising management expenses- only in a general way over the total as a proportion of the contribution revenue. There is no effective corrective action against such organisations other than suspension or deregistration. Either action rebounds on those already suffering from the rigid controls. I refer to the contributors. If a health organisation is closed up, deregistered or suspended once again it is the contributors who are hurt. This is a most unsatisfactory measure, as the contributor suffers double: he also loses the Australian Government benefits. Further, such deregistration would end any control which the Australian Government could exercise over reserves, and those reserves are accumulated from contributors' money. 
The provisions framed here by the Government give the Government similar powers to protect contributors as are contained in the Insurance Act. The Insurance Act provides that insurance arrangements can be adequately supervised in the interests of the contributors. That is what the Government is aiming to do here. The Bill includes provisions to enable the Minister for Social Security, where he believes it to be in the contributors' interests, to request an organisation to show cause why it should not be investigated in relation to specified matters. The 
Ministermayappointaninspectortoconductan investigation into specified matters relating to the affairs of the organisation. Who will protect the contributors' rights- the people's rights- if it is not the Australian Government, which also contributes to the health organisations and keeps them going? 
All the health insurance organisations are effectively controlled by doctors. Most of the organisations provide no effective avenue for contributor representation on the controlling body. Let us take as an example the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia in New South Wales. It is one of the biggest funds in Australia. Its council comprises 12 medical members elected for a 5-year period and 12 other members appointed by the 3 State committeesQueensland, Tasmania and New South Wales. Incidentally, the State committees are also doctor controlled. By that I mean that they are controlled by medical practitioners. The whole of the build up of the health insurance funds is very adequately controlled by doctors, with very little voice from the contributors. The people do not have a say. 
All contributors to health benefit funds would welcome the enactment of this Bill as a positive step forward in the protection of their interests. Honourable members will readily appreciate that this Bill is not related to Medibank, although people listening may be a little confused as Medibank seems to raise the blood pressure of the Opposition just as the National Health Bill did in earlier times. The honourable member for Hotham also pointed out that the Government did not give the Opposition any time to debate the National Health Bills as they were always gagged. 1 cannot remember any single Bill that has been debated at such length both inside and outside this House as this one, nor can I remember any Bill that has been the subject of such vicious and malicious misrepresentation. 
This Bill and its provisions are designed to enable health organisations to be supervised in a manner that will result in the organisations serving the needs of contributors more effectively. That is what they should be doing. The Bill provides that where it is proper for him to do so and when he has received a recommendation from the registration committee that the moneys standing to the credit of a fund may be properly reduced, the Minister may direct that a proportion of any excess reserves held in a hospital or medical fund may be used to finance in part medical and hospital benefits for long term and chronically ill members of the fund. What has the honourable member for Hotham to complain about in that provision? In my opinion the chronically ill members who have contributed to funds over many years have been very sadly neglected. There are provisions in the other portion of the Bill relating to instant cover for pregnant women. I have already heard that the Opposition proposes to support that provision so I will not go into that in detail. I am very glad to see that unemployed people will not now have to serve a waiting period of 2 weeks from the time they become unemployed before they are eligible for hospital and medical benefits under the subsidised health benefits plan. 
I repeat that the Government has a mandate from the people to introduce a National Health Bill. No matter how the honourable member for Hotham may see it, the people elected this Government in 1972 on that platform. They reelected the Government in 1974 on it. The Government put it through the Joint Sitting under the Constitution of this Parliament. I am sure that honourable members have seen enough erosion of democracy in this Parliament caused by the actions of the Senate and that they do not wish to see any further denigration of democracy in this House. The Government has a mandate. 
-On Saturday next we will be celebrating International Women's Day. It is a day set aside every year to commemorate a courageous group of women in the United States of America who campaigned in the streets, many years before it was accepted that one could campaign in the streets, for the rights of women. I thought it fitting to draw the attention of the House tonight to International Women's Day as it is particularly significant in 1975, designated International Women's Year by the United Nations and to be celebrated throughout the world as we will celebrate it here in Australia. International Women's Year may be boring to the Australian Country Party but it will not bore most of the people who are taking part in it. It should be a period when we aim to broaden the minds of all those people whose minds are closed to change. This is especially important in this time of accelerating community involvement and participation. 
People are ready for change and in this important year, International Women's Year, the most important single contribution of lasting value that we can make is to try to broaden the minds of those who have closed their minds to change. It could be a tribute to International Women's Year that we took the year to help in changing entrenched attitudes of some people within our community, that we took the year to broaden the minds of those who have closed their minds to change, of those who cling to old prejudices, old accepted attitudes, old accepted roles. International Women's Year should be a year when we accelerate change, a year to look back on, a year of commencement and a year to start the long revolution to whittle away old prejudices. It will be a long hard battle to change attitudes entrenched over generations. It will even be a battle to make clear that it is fundamentally a people's battle and not just a battle for women's rights, but a struggle to proclaim that every section of society, all men, women and children born and unborn will benefit from sweeping changes in attitudes to women's rights. Once we accept this as a fact we leap quite a way ahead. 
International Women's Year will not mean a thing if it consists only of meetings, seminars, conferences and celebrations dotted around the country completely unrelated and completely finished when the lights go out and everyone goes home after a successful function. What will herald success? First, the change of attitudes I have referred to; and secondly whatever money is spent or whatever functions are held it is the message to be conveyed, the intercommunication, the stimulus and the understanding that are so important. In the past society has denned what a woman might do and what she might expect from life. Today she wants to decide her role for herself and to find her own idenity. She wants broader choices. Do not let us fall for the trap of saying that all women, for instance, want to carve a career for themselves or to take jobs. To do so would make those who choose to stay home feel guilty. That way one simply leaves women with the same narrow choice but in a different area. 
We should investigate conditions leading to discrimination against women in education, in the work force and certainly in the credit facilities available to them. I am pleased to see some of the moves that this Government has made since coming into office towards eliminating the discrimination against women in the fields of pay and opportunity of employment. But these are still peripheral changes and it is the community acceptance of roles of men and women that has to be changed. Community acceptance or tolerance of inequalities is in revolt. As an example I point to the establishment of Halfway House in Melbourne, which has recognised the need for refuge for women and children forced to leave their homes. As well, I would cite the inquiries being carried out by the rape committee and the excellent counselling and referral work done by the Women's Health Collective at Collingwood. As well as their social value these and many other like organisations are particularly valuable as they have been started by voluntary groups recognising and moving to meet needs. 
If International Women's Year raises women's consciousness into working towards equality, development and peace this year will be a vanguard for a new way of life. If the year breaks down barriers and starts us all talking and understanding each other it will also be a year well spent. In this year let there be concentration on statistical evidence so that sociologists may evaluate the areas where women most need help. And then let there this time be implementation through governments in carrying out those recommendations. I have a real fear that lip service could be paramount this year and that many will parade their involvement in International Women's Year recognising that there is some political benefit in doing so. Women cannot isolate themselves and their problems. We have to commit ourselves to all powerless minorities that need our help. These comprise the poor, the aged, the sick, prisoners and the mentally ill, the handicapped and the disabled. They also comprise, unfortunately, those who suffer from inadequate health care, who may be helped now that Medibank is coming in, and those who suffer from inequality within our education system. 
We cannot survive as people and we cannot proudly claim success in the campaign to remove discrimination against women unless we remember too all other groups similarly disadvantaged. We will not survive unless we cooperate at a global level and help each other. In fact, we do not deserve to if we remain elitist, permitting nations to exploit those areas which desperately need encouragement, compassion and aid and giving instead alms paid for through economic gain and political strategy. There are all too many people, both men and women, who are still unaware of their vital responsibility to other people- people whose right to eat, breathe clean air, have shelter and freedom of choice and a future for their children is as valid as yours and mine. 
Peace should have a place in International Women's Year. To achieve peace in our time may be a gigantic task, but this year it is hoped that men and women will join forces against repression and work towards the liberation of all oppressed groups throughout the world. If International Women's Year leads the way democratically, shaking us a" UP and prodding those who resist change, to lay the guidelines for dialogue for other needy areas both locally and internationally, it will be worthwhile. To women I say: Retain a sense of humour, you will certainly need it. Do not accept what the media tell you. Examine and evaluate all the facts yourself. Be tolerant and good tempered whatever the provocation, and there is plenty about. Perhaps this message should go to men and women. Remember that this is only a beginning. There must be a constant, continual challenge to the conservative institutions and the reactionary factions which hinder the progress of so many human beings in this International Women's Year. 
Can the Minister for Housing and Construction say what progress is being made in establishing an indicative planning process for the housing industry? 
-We are delighted to learn that the Grants Commission Bill 1975 has the support of the Opposition. I would like to comment on one or two remarks made by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson).  He expressed concern at what he calls empire building since Labor came to office, and I think he mentioned education as an example. It was of great necessity that a structure, not an empire, be built which gave some attention to education in Australia because it had been starved by successive Liberal governments for many years. 
I was interested to hear that the Opposition will discontinue the format that we are using in making grants available to local government authorities. They are given free, without strings. I have been told by councillors who have given evidence before the Grants Commission that they have been extremely delighted at the hearing they have received and at the extent to which they have been able to put and present their cases. I do not know that Melbourne would be any better situated than is Canberra for ascertaining the needs of Victorian local government authorities. If the Opposition intends to regard local government authorities as the children of the State governments, then I would say that the States have been starving their children for years -in fact, since Federation. 
The Grants Commission Bill provides for the appointment of a further full time member of the Grants Commission to relieve the heavy burden that has fallen on the four existing full time members of the Local Government Division of the Commission. I would point out that it is just coincidence that the present Chairman of the 
Commission,  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell, is a judge. I do not think it is the intention of the Government constantly to appoint a judge to that position. I am sure that no one in this Parliament will oppose the Bill, as everyone must be aware of the tremendous amount of time that the commissioners have put into the hearing of evidence from those engaged in local government all over Australia. There are some 900 local government bodies in Australia, including semi-government authorities. Their submissions to the Commission have been sophisticated and detailed, and they have given a lot of evidence to back up their submissions. As well as that, the commissioners travel quite extensively so that they can have a first hand look at many of the projects for which local governments bodies are seeking finance. I think that it would be true to say that the Grants Commission has rejuvenated interest by councillors and councils who for many years considered that they were quite invisible to both State and Federal authorities and governments. In fact, they have for so many years been neglected by previous governments and starved by State governments that it is a wonder that the men and women who voluntarily service local government bodies have had any enthusiasm left to give. One of the aims of this Government has always been to upgrade the role of local government. Recent years have seen a resurgence of interest in that area of government that has long been the Cinderella of the 3 tiers of government in this country. 
Anything I might say in criticism of local government should not be taken as a criticism of the dedicated men and women who serve in the cities, shires and municipalities of Australia. Indeed, they have fought for better local government, for better services, for a better financial deal, and they have fought against very heavy odds. Evidently they have now fought against their mother or father- whichever the States are presumed to be- if they are their children. There is much that they have accomplished and much that they have been prevented from accomplishing. The fault lies in the whole system of intergovernmental relation. The remedy lies in balancing the functions and the finances of the 3 levels of government- local, State and national. 
There is a resurgence of interest and concern for local government. It marks the end of a long era of public apathy. We have lived through the years of cynical public indifference in council elections, in sullen resentment over the burden of increasing rates, and in irrational criticism of the services the councils have provided. Why can they not provide the services that people are now demonstrating they want? It is because they have been denied for far too long the means by which they might provide those services. Incredibly, local government was forgotten by our forefathers who framed the Constitution. It was again ignored when the financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States was drawn up. It was not until 1936 that the Loan Council began dealings with the borrowings of semi-government authorities. Since then more and more demands have been placed on local authorities, and at the same time their financial difficulties have grown. 
When it came into office this Government moved to correct such an injustice- to correct a system that had been allowed to worsen year by year. For years nothing had been done to check the intolerable burden of rates and charges imposed on Australian families, on pensioners and on those who live on fixed incomes. We passed a new Grants Commission Act authorising the Commission to inquire into applications for assistance by regional organisations of local government. Assistance thus recommended by the Commission and approved by the Australian Government is paid to the States under section 96 of the Constitution, and passed on by them to the organisations concerned. The Commission's recommendations have been universally accepted. All political parties have implemented them. The Grants Commission is a respected body and I am quite sure that its commissioners are also respected, in spite of the criticism of political bias that was raised when the last grants were made. 
Recently the Government initiated the free grants under the Grants Commission, and last year $56m was distributed amongst councils without any strings at all. This Bill simply appoints a further Commission to share this workload. These 2 innovations have been widely acclaimed by those connected with local government but one thing is needed desperately. Even though it is not contained in the Bill I intend to voice it. It is that local government should have a voice of its own on the Loan Council, At the Premiers Conference in 1973 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  proposed that local government have both a voice and a vote on the Loan Council and that the Australian Government be empowered to borrow money on behalf of local governments. This could have been effected quite simply by agreement between the Premiers and the Australian Government to amend the financial agreement. The States refused. We held a referendum. The people refused. But I still say that the Australian Government and the local authorities should be able to deal directly with each other and in the public interest/If it is good enough for the States and the Australian Government to deal directly with each other, why is it not good enough for the Australian Government to deal directly with local government? Why should local government not have the same opportunities to deal with the national Government and to participate fully in the system? 
This national Government has a responsibility to ensure that every level of government will be in a position better to perform its assigned duties for the better welfare of citizens wherever they live. Anyone who has had the experience of unsewered suburbs, poor health services, inadequate local transport, neglected environmental standards, shortage of playing fields, shortage of community centres and opportunities for culture and recreation knows that higher rates are not the answer. People no longer accept that they must go without all these services. They no longer accept the need for ever increasing rates and charges. There' is a greater awareness of local government and a greater endorsement of its role'. Local government faces a tremendous task. It is the grass roots of government and it is the tier most closely associated with its people. It cannot continue to serve the people adequately in 1974-75 with the antiquated financing from which it has suffered for decades. 
I believe that local government must have its own voice and vote on the Loan Council and that all councillors in all cities, shires and municipalities should be fighting for a voice on the Loan Council. I believe that they must not be conned by the old argument that the federal Government wants to gobble them up. Until the voice and vote on the Loan Council is obtained local governments will limp along getting further and further in debt. I believe that local government will be restrained and, indeed, crippled for generations if left in its present state. The Grants Commission gives some help. The grants can be used in any way the council needs to use them. But this is only one avenue- a needed one, certainly. Loan Council representation would be the final and complete answer, the answer that will make worthwhile the work that the men "and women of Australia perform on local councils. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
-Since I have been in this House I have been constantly astonished to find that before Opposition members rise to speak on a Bill they never manage to find out what it is about. Consequently they speak on everything bar what is contained within the Bill. It must be terribly confusing for those who listen on the radio to understand what we are talking about. Honourable members opposite never speak constructively. I have never yet heard them set out their policies for dealing with the unemployment or inflation that we are experiencing at the moment. Their contribution is always on the negative side. It is carp, criticism and reiteration, and I must say that I find it extraordinarily boring. Listening to Opposition speakers, one would imagine that the Australian Labor Party invented unemployment, but I remember the days of 1951, 1961 and 1971 when they were the Government and there was heavy unemployment. Their track record in care for the unemployed is deplorable and would remain deplorable if they were ever returned to office. 
The unemployment benefits under the present Government have been substantially increased, and rightly so, as the genuine individual should not be disadvantaged when he is out of work. Is this where members of the Opposition will economise if they ever get back into Government? Will we once again have that pittance called unemployment benefit handed out to people, and the unemployment benefit for juniors which was always looked upon as pocket money? Will they cut out the grants to voluntary organisations that are contained within the Bill we are discussing, which have not been mentioned yet by anyone who has spoken on the Bill? Would they like this Government, or do they intend, to cut out grants that have been made to the handicapped and disabled, to the Brotherhood of St Laurence, to the Australian Council of Social Services and to the Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled? Is this where the guillotine will fall if the Opposition is ever returned to Government? 
Last year the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)-  he has remained  Deputy  Leader although the Opposition has had a couple of leaders since- spoke of an 8 per cent cut across the board except in defence, where he intended to make increases. I believe also that he intends, with the support of the Australian Country Party, to reintroduce the subsidy for superphosphate. Those are 2 inceases. Where then will members of the Opposition have the cuts, or where do they want us to have the cuts? They are constantly calling for increased subsidies for wool and beef and it is worth having a good look at where they traditionally make the cuts. It is in the field of social security; it is where pensioners are concerned. I well remember the years when a 50c increase was the norm, when $ 1 was a windfall, and when, in some years, all that pensioners got was sympathy. Do Opposition members want the Government to cut down its pension increases? Is this one of the areas where they are scheming to have a cut in government expenditure? They did it for many years so do they want us to emulate them? Will they cut down on pension increases if they ever hold a leader long enough to regain office by winning an election? I think pensioners ought to beware. I believe that their incomes would be extremely vulnerable on the return of a Liberal-Country Party Government. I speak as one who was a pensioner under the Liberal-Country Party Government, and with very little gratitude. 
If honourable members opposite had fulfilled their responsibility to education during their many years in office, the problems facing this Government when it came into office would not have been so enormous. If the Opposition, when it was in Government, had cared for the students in the government and parish schools in the same way as it did for those in private schools, we would not have been faced with such tremendous expenditure. We make no apology for our expenditure in education, and we do not intend to cut it. Would the Opposition want us to economise here? Are we to return to the dark days of despair in education when they were the Government? After 2  lh  years of a Labor Government we are now seeing some of the results of our expenditure on education. We might even see more results if the non-Labor States care to co-operate and spend the money this Government has given them. They lag far behind the non-government schools in spending their grants. The Opposition, when it was the Government, starved and neglected the education system over numerous years. Schools are just starting to blossom. Are we to cut them off again? Parish schools for the first time for years are able to face the future with some satisfaction and with some sense of fulfilment. 
Does the Opposition want to abandon the expenditure for assistance to handicapped children? Does it want to abandon moves we have made to expand the war service homes loans and to make increased loans available at low interest rates? Shortly this Government will be introducing legislation to abolish the means test for the 70 to 74 age group. Is this the group the Opposition would have us disadvantage? Various other things in this Appropriation Bill have never been mentioned. There is the subsidy of $4 for $ 1 for establishing sheltered workshops for handicapped adults, training centres for handicapped children and hostels for handicapped children. Is this an area that we can do without? 
We are also introducing a 50 per cent subsidy for approved staff to assist hostels and sheltered workshops to improve their staff ratio. That surely is not an area that even the Opposition would want us to cut out. The double subsidy applies not only to sheltered workshops but also to a whole range of prescribed services. Where new ventures are being established the Australian Government will provide 100 per cent of the salaries to help with the establishment. They could not get going without it. Do honourable members opposite want us to cut out those sorts of things? In any case, why da not members of the Opposition when they speak of these cuts in Government spending be a little more specific and tell us in which areas they want us to cut grants? I think that every time they stand and speak of cuts in government spending they make the recipients of social security feel uneasy and threatened. Let them lay down specific cuts that they intend to make and cease the negative carping. 
Perhaps it might be an idea also if in future members of the Opposition speak to the legislation before the House instead of consistently bringing in debate on inflation and unemployment. Of course we have heavy unemployment and of course we regret it, probably more than do members of the Opposition. Of course we have inflation but so has every other comparable Western country. But we will not cure inflation by sitting here in Parliament criticising it. We need to put forward policies to gain the confidence of the business community and hold the confidence of the people of this country. I think that many honourable members who are in this House supposedly to represent electorates are far too intent on pushing their own barrows. They forget the people who put them here to serve them. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Can the Minister tell the House what work has been done by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission on uranium enrichment by gas centrifugation? 
-The standard rate of pension will rise after this Social Services 
Bill is passed through both Houses of Parliament from $3 1 a week to $36 a week. This means that pensions will have increased by $ 1 6 a week since this Government took office. Since we assumed office in December 1972 the standard rate of pension has increased by 80 per cent and the combined married rate by nearly 74 per cent. For the same period the consumer price index has increased by 31.6 per cent. So disregarding the supermarket list presented by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  the buying power of the pensioner has certainly been increased since this Government took office. But the rate of increase in pensions is of little interest compared with the peace of mind that pensioners completely dependent on their pensions have had since this Government took office. No longer do they have to wait for a Budget, as they did in the old days of the Liberal-Country Party coalition government, to find out that they would perhaps get a kiss if the government was between elections and popular or perhaps an increase of $1 if an election were imminent and the government unpopular. No longer do they have to wait for another bone to be thrown to them. They know full well under this present Government that their pensions will be adjusted twice annually to try to maintain the pension level at 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. They know full well that the philosophy of this Government is founded on a floor of welfare and that our every effort is towards guaranteeing them the right to a living income that has regard to the cost of living. 
For over 20 years, pension increases at Budget time paid no regard to the need of pensioners. The only criterion for the increases under the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government was how popular the Government was or how close it was to an election. I say to pensioners very clearly and seriously: 'Pay full attention to the remarks of the new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he says that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would reduce spending in all areas, except that of education, and increase spending in the area of defence'. There was no notice of intention to increase pensions. The Leader of the Opposition simply said that his Government would maintain spending in the social security area. He did not say that his Government would increase pensions twice a year so that pensions would be maintained at the rate of 25 per cent of the average weekly wage. 
Let me return to the remarks of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  It is typical of him that he should take me up on what was an honest mistake. As he said in the course of his speech, he has been a member of this Parliament for 13 years. I have been a member for just less than one year. I made an honest mistake. The legislation appeared on the blue paper for debate and passage, and I thought it had been passed. It is typical of the shallow approach that the honourable member for Hotham makes to the problems of the dependent and the handicapped that he should try to mount a major attack on this issue. Instead of the misplaced gallantry that the honourable member for Hotham displayed to me, he might have tried for some small understanding of the problems of new members. He has been a member for 13 years. He said that I am a oncer. I might remind him that I am not. If he thinks that I am a oncer, at least I can think that he is a has-been. 
He cannot even attack me honestly. He prefaced his remarks by saying how much more strongly he would have spoken if I had been a man. Why can he not see me as a member of Parliament, one who has made an honest mistake and is honest enough to say so? I often wonder why the honourable member for Hotham so vigorously denies that he is a male chauvinist. Maybe it is because he is a male chauvinist. I am not ever afraid to say that I have made a mistake. The only people who do not make mistakes are those who do not do anything, say anything or think. I wish the honourable member for Hotham the joy of his efforts, but I remind him that much more can be achieved by constructive thinking than by empty gestures such as 'fighting at the barricades'. 
Yes, the honourable member for Hotham needs one. He would be far better employed serving his electorate than pouring criticism on me. I believe that we should speak to the Bill and not to irrelevant matters; so I shall continue my remarks on the Bill. This Bill also provides for an increase of $1.50 a week for dependent children of pensioners and supporting mothers. This increases the amount for each dependent child to $7 a week. The overall increase for a single pensioner with 2 children will be $8 a week. This is a far cry from the 25c or 50c a week increase we used to receive under the former Government when I was a pensioner. These increases will flow on to the special benefits and sickness benefits, to sheltered employment allowances and to unemployment benefits. 
The new policies in respect of widows or supporting mothers with one child and no property affecting will mean that such a person will now be able to receive other income to a higher level without losing her entitlement to a widow's pension. This will be a great incentive to single parents to re-enter the work force instead of being wholly dependent on the pension. Age pensions will be payable free of means test to all those in the 70 to 74 years age group. Honourable members will recall that the first stage of the abolition of the means test was commenced in 1973. It is interesting to note that the Opposition has been making noises about abolishing the means test entirely. I prefer to look at the Opposition's track record rather than to take the words of Opposition members at face value. The Opposition's track record shows that it had many years in which it could have abolished the means test but in fact it did nothing about it. Words cost nothing; it is deeds that matter. 
Unemployment benefits will now be paid weekly in advance instead of in arrears. This will assist those who are in financial difficulties. This afternoon the honourable member for Hotham insulted every person who is receiving unemployment benefits. He grouped them all together and called them bludgers. It must be great for the man who is out of work, who has a family and commitments and who may be listening to this debate, to be told that he is a bludger because he is collecting unemployment benefits because he cannot get a job. Of course there are people in the community who are taking advantage of unemployment benefits. Did they suddenly pop up in 1972 when the Labor Government took office, or did they exist before? There will always be those who will take advantage of such a situation. I ask the honourable member for Hotham not to lump them all in together as bludgers. 
The appropriation legislation on which I made my mistake contained provision for extra loans to ex-servicemen. That is probably where I got so upset because some of those people who were waiting for defence service home loans had to take out quite expensive bridging finance because the Senate did not sit on and pass the legislation. I had those facts right; it was the other points on which I was wrong. I suggest to the honourable member for Hotham that, instead of attacking me, he should concentrate on making sure that his new Leader will ensure that the Senate will sit on and pass Appropriation Bills when they are needed. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. It is supplementary to some questions asked earlier. What rights do life assurance policy holders have under the provisions of the Life Insurance Act and the Insurance Acts of 1973 to prevent their premiums from being used to finance the conduct of political campaigns? 

 Dr J. F. CAIRNS I do not think there is any doubt that a considerable quantity of funds subscribed to insurance companies by policy holders are being used by insurance companies in a political campaign against the Government and against the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation. Policy holders have no say whatever in what is happening. These decisions are being made by the management of very large insurance companies who have not consulted their policy holders. One knows that statistically at least half the policy holders must be supporters of the Australian Labor Party, and one can assume that a considerable number of them are opposed to what the managements of the large insurance companies are doing. I do not think there is any provision under the Insurance Act to prevent what the management is doing, although it is possible that some provisions could be interpreted as having relevance. I think it is desirable that these provisions should be looked at to see their relevance to a matter of this kind. 
The campaign being conducted with funds of the policy holders is a misleading one. The argument is that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will mean the nationalisation of the insurance industry. There is no truth whatever in that. The Australian Government Insurance Corporation will be an independent operation which will not involve an attempt to take over or to interfere with the scope of insurance companies. Indeed, the reason for the establishment of this office lies in the deficiencies of the insurance companies. As was revealed by the Prime Minister in an answer a few minutes ago, the insurance companies have failed, and failed rather badly, in a number of areas as was shown in the Brisbane floods. It is not only a question of national interest but also a question of normal insurance provision. The insurance companies have failed. There is great need in Australia today for some real competition in the insurance business. I hope the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will give some real competition in that area. One of the main reasons why there is need for that competition is that the insurance companies do not plan their finances for the purpose - 
I am pleased to be following the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in the debate on this motion because I think we have a tremendous amount in common in our concern for the plight of pensioners and those on fixed or low incomes. I agree with him that the need to solve the accommodation problem of pensioners is absolutely urgent. I do not agree, however, that solving the accommodation problem should become the complete and whole prerogative of the Federal Government. I will speak on that in a moment. I was interested, on looking at the figures, to find that from 1958 to 1964 there was no increase in the supplementary assistance payment. By 1972 it had increased by $1 a week. In fact it took 15 years for the Liberal-Country Party Government to increase the supplementary assistance payment by $3 a week. The Labor Government increased it by $1 a week in one year. It is always interesting to point out that the Opposition seems to believe that the present Government can do in one year what it failed to do in 23 years in office. It is a great compliment that the Opposition pays to the present Government, but I am afraid that it cannot keep pace quite to that extent. 
I have noted in this House on a number of occasions when we have been discussing rent subsidies that every time the rent subsidy payable to eligible pensioners has been increasedthis has happened throughout the years- the owners of the houses and flats throughout the various States that are rented by pensioners and those who rent rooms or provide board to pensionersin fact some State governments used to do it also- take the increase directly from the hands of the pensioners. I offer that not as a reason why rent subsidies should not be increased when the right time comes around or when the right way is found but as an indictment of those States which get out of meeting their responsibility towards those who need accommodation, particularly pensioners, by throwing the matter back on to the Federal Government. It is also an indictment of those States which, through apathy at best, have neglected to make sure that reasonable flats and houses are available for renting to those who are on low or fixed incomes and to pensioners. 
The States have the right- they keep ramming this point down our throats- to control the cost of land, housing and rent within their borders, but they abdicate any responsibility for doing so. Through the rent subsidy being paid by the Federal Government to the pensioners, the taxpayers are, in my opinion, subsidising in most cases a group including some greedy owners and the States which have abdicated their responsibility in this field. The States love to point to the Federal Government and lay the blame for inflation fairly and squarely on its shoulders, but they themselves are guilty. Never at any time have they moved to assert the real control that is needed over land speculators and developers. 
It is not only the pensioners who suffer under this lack of responsibility; the home builders and the many hard-working families in Victoria, for example, who today are paying up to one-third of their earnings to get a roof over their head also suffer. We have an inherent right to have food, to breathe fresh air and to have shelter, but anyone who is paying $40 out of his weekly take-home pay or his gross pay to get a roof over his head is gradually being reduced to a poverty level. I emphasise that I am referring to the people who are working a regular 40 hours a week and whose pay is not sufficient to enable them to cope with the rent. They will cope all right with the prices being charged, but they will not cope with the rent The pensioners in particular are being hit. Increasing the supplementary assistance payment to $8 a week would, of course, result in the inclusion of many more pensioners, as the honourable member for Mackellar would be well aware. The cost of doing so has been put at $56m in a full year. I find it amazing that members of the Opposition are in such conflict over the subject of spending. The Leaders and  Deputy  Leaders of the Opposition Parties are continually crying out 'Cut Government spending drastically in most areas bar defence'; but many members of the Opposition, such as the honourable member for Mackellar, are calling for increased spending. Evidently some conflict exists within the Opposition Parties on that subject. I suggest that they should get together and decide whether they want cuts or increases; they cannot have 2 bob each way. 
I refer briefly to the track record of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in the field of social services. In 1 5 years it increased the supplementary assistance by $3 a week and the same conditions applied then as apply now. Why do honourable members opposite always wait until they are in Opposition before they call for such an increase? Why do they not write down their policy now and say clearly to the pensioners: 'If you put us back into office, this is what we will do '? One does not get that information from the Leaders of the Opposition Parties. One gets it only from people such as the honourable member for Mackellar, who is to retire at the end of this Parliament and who has a good track record in the area of compassion for pensioners. I have never heard one of the Leaders of the Opposition Parties say: 'We will do such and such. We will increase the supplementary assistance payment by such and such a time if you put us back into office. We will abolish the means test in a certain period of time if you put us back into office'. The Opposition is not prepared to write down what it will do. It is prepared only to let its back bench members stand up in this chamber and speak through their compassion. It is so easy to say certain things, but it is the actions that one takes that count. Actions count; words do not. Honourable members opposite had 23 years to do what today they have sought to have done, and in those 23 years they failed lamentably. They would fail again if they were put back into office. 
-I have been most entertained by the honourable member for 
Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  but I have to call his attention to one or two errors in what he had to say. He asked the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  why he did not rectify the situation of Tasmania being represented by 10 Senators and 5 members of this House. The honourable member for Gippsland is as aware as we are that that is a constitutional requirement. This Party is not opposed to the Constitution. Tasmania has to have a minimum of 10 Senators and 5 members of the House of Representatives. The honourable member knows that as well as we do, although it might make a good story to say otherwise. 
I think the honourable member for Gippsland intimated that the Australian Labor Party does not have much country vote support, but I remind him that we hold about 20 country seats, including Kalgoorlie and Grey, two of the largest country seats. I also remind him that my colleague the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  represents quite a number of farmers. I think his vote in his rural area is as high as his vote from the urban areas. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Gippsland say that he would fight for a fair redistribution. I ask him why he does not fight for one in his home State in which his Party and its coalition partner get 45 per cent of the vote and consistently gallop in and take office. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  thought Labor would get over 50 per cent of the vote under this redistribution and that this would be undemocratic, but why does he not fight with his Party in Queensland for a redistribution there? Why does he not go to Queensland and get them to bring in a redistribution that is not undemocratic? He cannot do it. 
I am in support of the Bill even though, as the honourable member for Gippsland said, it took a hatchet to me. I will not be like the honourable member for Wimmera and say that I would be prepared to resign graciously in the interests of democracy. I believe it is democratic for me to be here and I will fight to keep my seat. In speaking on the borders of Henty as proposed by the Commission, I would like to be fairly critical of the Commissioners. I put in a submission and a petition, so honourable members opposite and I have quite a lot in common. The petition was taken up very quickly and signed by about 80 per cent of the people who live in the sub-division of Holmesglen. My submission was in agreement with the views of the honourable member for Wimmera and of the Liberal Party of Australia when they, in writing to the Commissioners, listed the following as matters which should be taken into account when moving boundaries: Community of interest, commerce, education, religious affiliation, sport, kindergartens and general municipal matters. I believe in this affinity of interest and I believe that my subdivision of Holmesglen belongs very clearly within the seat of Henty. The Commissioners knocked back my submission, saying: 
Your Distribution Commissioners appreciated that there was a community of interest between Holmesglen and the existing division of Henty, but to accede to the objection, the community of interest of other electors would be violated and a resultant major rearrangement of other division boundaries would only have aggravated the situation. 
My criticism comes not from the knocking back of my submission but from the fact that in their reasons the Distribution Commissioners say that the existing electors would be violated. They do not say which electors and they do not say how they will be violated. I realise though that these electors are left in the seat of Chisholm, so perhaps that is what they meant. They gave no real explanation of who would be violated and how they would be violated. When they say 'resultant major rearrangement of other division boundaries would have aggravated the situation', I would remind them that the submission I put in sought to move only the borders of Chisholm and Henty. It was a straight swap of 3000 housing commission people for 3000 Chisholm-type people. One is a very affluent area and the other is not. We would have given our 3000 to Chisholm and taken back the 3000 from Holmesglen. Holmesglen, to all intents and purposes, is a part of the city of Oakleigh. It is not in the same municipality- that is true- but transport, shopping, churches, schools and newspapers are shared. The people of Holmesglen have easy access and transport to Oakleigh. The Commissioners in doing the Victorian redistribution recognised this when they moved the subdivision of Holmesglen back into the city of Oakleigh which, to me, showed very good sense. I was disappointed that they did not see fit to do so in respect of a Federal redistribution. Apart from that I believe that the Victorian redistribution is eminently fair. 
I think that the Liberals, left to themselves, would support this redistribution. There is no doubt that it is very strongly in their favour. If they had only themselves to consider they would vote for it but, as usual, they carry on their backs the National Country Party of Australia. I am glad to see that they have of late managed to shake off the Democratic Labor Party, but they are still very much subject to National Country Party pressure and most decisions that they make on issues and in regard to this redistribution have to fit in with National Country Party plans, sometimes to the embarrassment of the Liberal Party as we found during the last election when the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  raised the issue of the price of petrol. It bounced back on the Liberals, but that is the price they will pay if they do not have enough courage to stand up and try to be a Party and an alternative government in their own right. I support the Bill. 
-I was delighted to hear the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  in so much accord with the contents of the Health Insurance Bill ( 1975) and I was very interested to hear him tell us what is the(Quorum  formed)  I thank the members of the Australian Labor Party for coming in. There are one National Country Party member and 5 Liberal Party members present to hear me. I must congratulate the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  on letting us know the contents of the Liberal Party's policy in regard to optometrists.  His  Party had 23 years to get going on this matter but did not do so. The honourable member for Petrie mentioned that there are very many lazy people in our community who are taking advantage of the welfare services that this 
Government is providing. I point out that at the moment we have a shambles of a health service, produced by the former coalition government, in which ability to pay is the only thing which really matters. 
Having said that, I would like to say that I am delighted that optometrists have been included in the Medibank plan. I am sure that their inclusion is welcomed not only by optometrists but also by the people of Australia. Optometrists have served Australia very well in the past in ways which we all probably take for granted. It is peculiar to Australia that our outback areas are served so well. Many optometrists make periodic- weekly or monthly- excursions of one, two or three days to remote communities to provide optometrical care. We even have a flying optometrist who covers part of his territory by aeroplane and the rest in a caravan with a fully equipped optometrical office. There are very few countries which are served so well by their optometrists. Optometrists have been neglected for 20 years in this country and I am very glad to see that they and the services they render to the Australian public have been recognised and that they will take a full role in the Medibank scheme. 
The proposed optometrical benefit arrangements covered in this Bill were developed in close and very harmonious consultation with representatives of the Australian Optometrical Association. The proposals have also been discussed with representatives of the Australian Medical Association and a representative of the Australian College of Opthalmologists. It should be emphased that participation in this new arrangement is entirely at the discretion of each optometrist and in no way is there any compulsion on any individual. Optometrical consultations will be introduced into the health insurance program and participating optometrists will perform services which will become eligible for benefits in accordance with Part 1 of Schedule 1 of the Health Insurance Act. They will be paid at the rate of 85 per cent of the negotiated schedule fees with a maximum patient payment of $5- the same conditions as apply to medical benefits under the Medibank scheme. As in Medibank, where the optometrist accepts the assignment of benefits it will be in full settlement and the patient will not pay at all. Participating optometrists will undertake to accept the assignment of benefits for most consultations with persons with pensioner medical service entitlement or any other low income group as agreed between the Australian Optometrical Association and the Australian Government and the dependants of these 2 groups. 
The provisions of the Bill will become effective from 1 July this year and will expand the benefits already available under Medibank. They will remove the limitation existing in the present health insurance scheme where Australian Government benefits are not payable for a professional service which results in the prescription of spectacles. No one in this House will deny that optometrists are professional. In fact, Australia has produced more than its share of teachers and researchers qualified with advanced degrees, many of whom have distinguished themselves overseas as well as at home and, additionally, in related areas of science in Australia. 
The provisions of this Bill are necessary when we realise that, at present, patients are eligible only for reimbursement of payment of medical specialist services to opthalmologists when they are referred to the opthalmologist by an optometrist or by a general practitioner. Further, the patient is denied reimbursement if, in consultation with the opthalmologist, a prescription for glasses is received. Here I should mention that it is not intended to extend the present benefits to the provision of financial assistance towards the cost of spectacles or contact lenses. This is presently under examination. But the new benefit arrangements authorised in the Bill will extend to consultations resulting in the prescription and fitting of contact lenses. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I think that the honourable member for Tangney who came through the door should actually come into the chamber. (Quorum formed). 
Contact lenses will be covered under a set of 9 conditions, basically designed to give the use of contact lenses to those whose vision will besignificantly improved by their use. I was interested to hear the cosmetic reasons which the honourable member for Petrie gave in respect of this matter. But I would imagine that at this time the cost would be prohibitive. As the Opposition is always telling the Government to watch the matter of costs, I think Opposition members will be rather pleased to see that vision must besignificantly improved to attract the benefit, rather than to apply the benefit in respect of the cosmetic aspect raised by the honourable member for Petrie. The list, incorporated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  has been accepted by the Australian Optometrical Association, after being drawn up by an independent ophthalmologist. The provisions will be reviewed periodically. 
Clause 8 of the Bill provides for the Minister for Social Security to draw up a common form of undertaking. Each optometrist who participates in this new benefit arrangement will be required to given an undertaking in accordance with the common form. The Minister will consult with the Australian Optometrical Association in drawing up the common form. The undertaking will outline the kinds of services to be provided by participating optometrists and will detail the maximum fee to be charged by the optometrist for a service to which the undertaking relates. Provision will be made for domiciliary visits at the request of the patient. This is most important for those who are perhaps crippled or those who are paraplegics or quadriplegics. 
We recognise that special arrangements may be necessary for people in isolated areas. I have mentioned the rather special services given by optometrists in outlying areas of Australia. Higher charges for such services may necessitate higher reimbursement to the optometrist. The Bill, by clause 18, empowers the Minister for Social Security to make special arrangements in these cases. The Bill is designed to extend to all Australians an improved system of health benefits, one for which Australians have been waiting for very many years, virtually for a quarter of a century. We believe that health services should be available to all and not just to those who can afford to buy such services. The lack of provision of benefits for optometrical consultations has been a real deficiency in health care. Not the least of the sufferers has been the children of Australia. I believe that this new arrangement will benefit both patients and services available. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-Will the Minister for Minerals and Energy tell the House the importance of brown coal deposits, particularly those in Victoria, in the Minister's Austraiian energy plans? 
-Will the Treasurer confirm that the abolition of the property income tax surcharge will have effect retrospectively from 1 July this year? Can he say which other Budget measures are of specific benefit to people living in retirement on the proceeds of property and other savings? 
-My grievance today, I am sure, will receive the support of every member of this House, whatever his party affiliation. I should like to say a few words about the anonymous letter writer and the anonymous telephone caller. I do not believe that there is any person in this community more despicable than the one who makes anonymous telephone calls or writes anonymous letters. There would be hardly one member of this House who has not at some time received an anonymous abusive letter or telephone call, albeit the odd one here and there. But there are within the community people who are being subjected to a continuous stream of abuse from anonymous letter writers and telephone callers. 
Of course politicians are not the only butt for these people. I am well aware, as you probably are,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that some of the people who make these calls or write these letters are medically sick; but there are also others who, for one reason or another, support a cause and believe that they have the right because they support a cause differing from one's own, to intrude anonymously into one's life. Scarcely anyone who is in the public eye or who receives a certain amount of publicity is free from this type of rubbish. Recently I have come into contact with this practice personally, and I do not like it. During the last 2 election campaigns I became accustomed to going without sleep. For some odd reason people started telephoning my house at 1 o'clock in the morning and they would telephone through until 6 o'clock in the morning. Eventually I got a telephone I could unplug. But did that unnamed caller or those unnamed callers consider my elderly father for whom sleep was a brief interlude without pain? They did not at all. I became accustomed to that practice. It is a political thing and one learns to live with it. But what I will not become accustomed to is the way in which an anonymous letter writer or telephone caller can prey on people within the community to the very severe detriment of their health. 
I suppose that what really brought this to my mind was one middle aged woman in my electorate who was driven almost to suicide by people who were telephoning- it seemed to be a bit of a campaign- impugning her morals. She was a very nervous little thing. When I found her she was almost at the stage of suicide. We got her an unlisted number which cut off the problem. But one cannot cut off what is in the minds of people who do things such as this. Some problems cannot be as easily solved and they cause real suffering. I have a friend who receives abusive letters every time her name or her photograph appears in the Press and another friend who, when she answers the telephone- it rings very oftensometimes hears only heavy breathing. These things may sound unimportant, but to the recipient they can cause real suffering and pain. 
I shall address myself for a couple of minutes to those who send me anonymous letters and make anonymous telephone calls to me. I hold them in supreme contempt. In my opinion they are completely without integrity and completely without guts. I am prepared to receive any letter or any call of criticism; indeed, I will protect the right of the individual to criticise me. But that individual has to sign his name to the letter or to give his name over the telephone. My staff is instructed to hang up on anyone who will not say who is calling before he starts speaking. We do not read anonymous letters. We look at the end. If there is not a signature we put the letter in the waste paper basket. So, such people are wasting their time. I do not receive many abusive letters, but my advice to anyone being abused is to follow my example. The anonymous letter writer is sick. Also he does not have the courage of his convictions; if he did he would want to debate his grievance. He is the cowardly type who wants to hit and run. My office is open to anyone who wants to come into it. I am committed to my philosophy of living. I am committed to my political Party and its policies. But I am prepared to discuss and to debate them with anyone, quite freely and openly- that is, anyone with a name. 
There is no one harder to fight than the one who hits and runs. No accident arouses more public hostility than the one caused by the hit and run driver. That is the type of person with whom the anonymous letter writer belongs. What satisfaction he can get from shooting an arrow into the air without knowing whether it will hit its mark, I do not know. I also do not know what satisfaction he gets from making unfounded accusations from an anonymous position. It is time some of these people grew up and had enough maturity to promote some discussion on whatever their grievance is out in the open. There is very little that cannot be discussed. Most of us respect those who open the lines of communication and discussion, even if we completely disagree with what the other person has to say. In my opinion the anonymous letter writer is a cowardly and gutless person. I hope that a few of those who have been making the calls or writing the letters are listening to this debate. They might take a hint from what I have had to say. 
-The National Health Bill was introduced by the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  acting for the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham).  It requires drug manufacturers and distributors to furnish the Government with information on prices and costs of pharmaceutical benefits. It was interesting to listen to the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  who showed a tremendous concern for the drug manufacturers and distributors. I wish that he would show the same concern for the consumer and for the taxpayer who foots the bill for the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. The introduction of this Bill follows a recommendation by the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices, whose membership includes representatives from all parties, in its first report in November 1973. The recommendation said that the National Health Act should be amended to allow the Department of Health to obtain cost and financial information in respect of products in the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
There is at present no power under the National Health Act to require that the Government be given the details of costing. All we can do is foot the bill, even though 80 per cent of all dispensed medicines are supplied under the provisions of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. This is tantamount to the Government signing a blank cheque in the name of the taxpayer, who foots the bill, and it leaves the Department of Health dependent on negotiations with drug manufacturers and distributors to try to achieve fair and reasonable prices for pharmaceutical benefit items. One has only to look at the cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme over past years to see the extent to which the prices have escalated. It would be an irresponsible government, and certainly an irresponsible opposition, which was not prepared in some way to try to see that we pay fair and reasonable prices for anything that goes on to the pharmaceutical benefits list. While such negotiations can be successfully conducted with mutual co-operation, if a satisfactory price cannot be arrived at an item may have to be removed from the pharmaceutical benefits list, and this is certainly not in the public interest. Indeed, it could lead to medical, physical and financial hardship on the part of an individual dependent on a particular doctor's prescription, who would have to pay the full cost of a certain drug removed from the list. If this legislation is deferred until a report is presented by the Industries Assistance Commission on the whole drug industry, very many consumers may have to pay the full cost of the drugs they need for their health's sake. I consider waiting for an IAC report quite irrelevant to this Bill. We still have to protect the consumer and protect the taxpayer who foots the bill for pharmaceutical benefits whatever the result of the IAC investigation. As the Government in this instance is really acting as an agent for the taxpayers, it would be completely irresponsible not to make every effort to control to some extent the cost of the drugs on the pharmaceutical list. 
The provisions of this Bill are designed to protect the taxpayers from excessive prices being set for some items which are manufactured in a monopoly situation by some drug companies. As the Australian Government heavily subsidises the purchase of the vast bulk of prescription drugs, it is only reasonable to require drug manufacturers to provide full financial information to justify the prices charged for medicines included on the pharmaceutical list and especially when they control the patents. Such information will be provided in the same way as information is provided in income tax returns. It will be completely confidential and certainly will not be in danger of being disclosed to competitors which I imagine is probably the main worry that drug manufacturers have in this respect. 
The suggestion that the Bill be withdrawn until the Industries Assistance Commission has completed its report on the protection of the pharmaceutical industry is really a red herring in this case and it shows an irresponsible attitude on the part of the Opposition. The IAC is examining the viability of the industry as a whole in terms of tariff protection which is really a different area. The Bill relates to the protection of the consumer. There is no reason for the Department of Health to delay negotiations with individual companies over the pricing of drugs marketed in Australia as this is a separate although it may be a related issue. The proposal by the Opposition to defer consideration of this Bill is rather confusing. The introduction into this debate of the Fawnmac purchase I found irrelevant. I was tempted to take a point of order but I thought I would hear what the honourable member had to say. However, it was really another red herring. 
Does the Opposition believe that the Government should allow the price of drugs to be inflated at the will of the industry and to heck with what the consumer, who, incidentally, is the taxpayer, has to pay for them? Such an interpretation is unworthy of any Party which claims to champion the public interest and which advocates an unrelenting attack on inflation and restraint on Government expenditure. I would have thought that the Opposition would have supported this Bill right up to the hilt on that point alone. The hypocrisy of the Opposition is all too apparent. If the Opposition is sincere in its statements that Government spending must be restrained, then it will fully support this Bill. If it is not just paying lip service to its statements that prices must not gallop ahead of the electorate's ability to pay, then it will support this BDI. The Government cannot sign a blank cheque on behalf of the taxpayers in the way that the Opposition when it was in office signed blank cheques to buy the F- 1 1 1 aircraft. 
Can the Minister representing the Postmaster-General say what subsidy would have been required by the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission to avoid recent increases in postal and telecommunication charges? Is he aware of any recent suggestion that such a subsidy should be made available from government revenue? 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has given the Australian electorate a very clear choice between the 2 major parties with his quite unusually revealing statements in the House last Tuesday week. He reacted to this Budget by saying it was a complete confidence trick, an act of duplicity and a tragedy that the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  did not seem to understand the economy of the country. However it evidently was not a big enough tragedy for the Leader of the Opposition to put his leadership on the line by refusing to pass the Budget through this House. I would imagine that if the Opposition is going to oppose the Budget in this House it should also oppose it in the Senate, or support it in both Houses. 
We are well aware that inflation is this nation's worst enemy. We aim to curb it, but we do not aim to throw away the great program of reform and change that this Government introduced into our community starting in 1972- the programs we have been following through steadily since in education, in community health, in social welfare. The Australian Government's record in all these areas is widely acknowledged and it is enduring. We are not reversing this trend, but there comes a time when we have to consolidate, pause and take stock of the achievements of the past and plan for the future. May I say that whatever criticism this Government attracts, there are 5 groups within the community who have cause to be thankful that at last they have a Labor Government. These 5 groups take in the sick, the old, the handicapped, the disadvantaged and the children both in and out of the schools. These are the 5 groups to whom we have a governmental responsibility as well as a community responsibility. 
Education expenditure by this Government will increase substantially in the forthcoming year. In our first year in office we doubled it, and we doubled it again last year. We had to because the neglect of the previous years necessitated urgent spending. However the recurrent expenditure has again been heavily increased this year. The States grants, do not forget, have also been increased this year to record levels. I believe it would be fair for educational lobbyists to start pressuring State governments to contribute more to education. We had and we have no intention of taking over the entire responsibility for funding education. States have the control of the planning and the allocation of both these specific grants for education and the budgeting for their own spending in this area. Since the Australian Labor Party came into government their level of expenditure has dropped considerably and is dropping year by year. They get more from us, so why do they not contribute more to education? At the same time they might have a look at cutting their own costs, especially their building costs. They might take a few tips from the nongovernment schools which manage to get far more value from the money we give them than the State governments have got for the money that has been given to them. This is a complete and utter waste of the taxpayer's money. In particular I would say that Victoria must have a good look at how it is spending the money it is getting from the Federal sector. 
Medibank, which was launched on 1 July, is included in Budget funding. I noticed that the former Leader of the Opposition was urging further cuts in Government spending and that he again made an attack on Medibank. He was followed by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who hastily withdrew his attack. What they said is in line with Opposition policy of no protection for the 5 groups I mentioned earlier. We have opened a whole new deal for these 5 groups. We intend to protect that new deal. We stand behind the groups who need help. The Leader of the Opposition did commit his Party to reduced government spending, and he committed it in some detail. However I am far more interested in the detail which he did not give and the implications of his omissions. He did not mention health, social security, education or pensions. I have been interested in listening to and reading the speeches on the Budget by honourable members opposite. The only honourable members who so far have mentioned social welfare are the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  and the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  who commented on this Government's insistence on financing an extravagant social welfare program. 
Social security, education and health are the traditional areas where the Opposition, when it was in government, always economised. Because they were not mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition or other honourable members opposite, do we take it that the Opposition endorses our policies on education, that the Opposition accepts the Schools Commission, our community health program, the hospital building program and Medibank? Do we accept that it would continue public spending in these areas? Of course we do not. It is aU too clear when we look at its track record and it is all too clear when honourable members opposite did not bother to mention welfare matters in their reply to the Budget. All those people dependent on social security, aU those charitable and voluntary organisations who care for dependants should have a good look at the Liberal Budget alternatives. They are the vulnerable ones. They are the ones who have been hit in the past. They are the ones without political strength. They are not mining corporations, insurance companies or rural interests with political might. They are the ones in jeopardy. Honourable members might remember  Mr Bury  and his Budget of 1970-71. Remember that they were economically good times then. He said: 
We have avoided any significant acceleration in the rate of domestic outlays- we have chosen to pursue high priority objectives. 
In that Budget pensioners got 50c, so we know where the high priorities lie. The Leader of the Opposition criticised the increase in Post Office charges, the increased charges on beer and cigarettes.  Mr Bury  in his Budget did exactly as the present Government has done. These were the same areas that were affected. As a further criticism, the Leader of the Opposition mentioned the Government's imposition of a special tax on coal exports, but he did not say, and he has not said, that the Opposition would not continue with it or the other measures I have mentioned. But I suppose the most amazing thing is his criticism of the tax rebates as introduced by  Mr Hayden  in this year's Budget. The Melbourne  Age  points out in its editorial that the Leader of the Opposition's alternative is an elitist approach. What else would one expect? He does concede that tax rebates were needed because tax deductions were going to operate much too harshly on lower income people, but I would suggest that the most interesting comment in the Leader of the Opposition's speech on the Budget is recorded on page 522 of  Hansard.  He said:  . . . This Budget is one more instrument to implement ' the Prime Minister's philosophy of making everyone dependent on government for basic services such as health, education and retirement. 
No single family unit can ever provide everything that is exactly necessary for the health and education of that family. No single family can provide the equipment that is necessary for each member of that family. Families have to be helped by government provision of hospitals, of the services within the hospitals, and by the provision of schools, school equipment, school buildings and school teachers. Of course these things are always assisted by government otherwise we would not have the facilities. Previously the provision of facilities for health services and education depended only on the ability to pay. 
As long as the earlier Liberal-Country Party Government was sitting on the Treasury bench the type of education a child received depended on geography. It depended on whether a person lived in the industrial suburbs, in the country, south of the Yarra or north of the Yarra and it depended on a person's ability to pay. The schools in the western or northern suburbs of Melbourne were deplorable, but that was quite all right because people living in those areas did not have the ability to pay for anything better. The schools in the southern or eastern suburbs would be better, the facilities would be better and obviously the retention of the teacherstudent ratio would be better because these were much more pleasant places in which to work. 
Is the Opposition now suggesting that we cut spending so that we can go back to this type of education which depends on a person's ability to pay? This born to rule philosophy shows through very clearly in what  Mr Malcolm  Fraser had to say about people being dependent on government basic services such as health, education and retirement. Good health surely should be the right of every person who lives within the community, but as before with education, good health for 23 years had been determined by the ability to pay. It should not be so, but it has been. Does  Mr Fraser  want us to go back to the situation where, if a person has the money, health services are available to him and if a person cannot afford to pay then devil take the hindmost? This is survival of the fittest policy. It is also an extreme right wing policy. 
I noticed with interest that one of the cutbacks that  Mr Fraser  was advocating was the suspension of a $20m advance to the Australian Housing Commission. I found that quite interesting because one of the earlier speakers, I think it was the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  was bemoaning the fact that the Victorian Housing Commission needed more money. Members of the Opposition cannot keep on putting and taking. They have to make up their minds. Do they or do they not want to take that $20m away? Even taking in all the cutbacks that  Mr Fraser  is advocating, such as the capital advance to the Australian Industry Development Corporation, suspension of the Australian Housing Corporation, adandonment of uranium exploration, suspension of growth centres and program and area improvements, the selling of the pharmaceutical company which the Government has not even bought yet and the abolition of the Australian Government Insurance Office, not as much money as he suggests will be saved. Where will the savings be made? Even with a zero growth rate in the Commonwealth Public Service not much money can be saved. The saving will be made where it has always been made, and that is in the areas of the 5 groups I mentioned before- the ones which always have been deprived- the sick, the old, the handicapped, the disadvantaged and the children and out of schools. The program will repeat itself. It is written in every line of the speech that the Leader of the Opposition made. There is a strong movement away to the right. This strong philosophy suggests that all people must look after themselves, stand on their own two feet and be completely independent or fall flat on their faces and stay there. It is a survival of the fittest philosophy. It would be great to think that everyone would be able to stand on his own two feet and would be able to provide for himself out of his own pay packet, but that unfortunately is a pipe dream. There will always be within the community those who need extra help. There will always be those who will be dependent. In fact if we look clearly at a community, even those of us who think we are independent are also interdependent each upon the other and all of us upon the services provided by the community. 
As far as I am concerned the speech of the Leader of the Opposition gave warning to all within the social services area and in the area of community health. I would feel very vulnerable if I were a pensioner and was approaching a Budget under a possible Liberal-National Country Party government of the future. I would feel extremely vulnerable in regard to the amount of pension I would get. However our Budget has been brought down into the House and it has shown that once again this Government can deliver the goods.  Mr Fraser  has shown that once again all he can do is talk about it. The new system of tax is simpler, fairer, more flexible, more efficient and is in keeping with the Government's social welfare programs. The Government recognises that within the community there are groups which will always need assistance.  Mr Fraser  speaks of bringing in totally the recommendations of the Mathews Committee. These would reduce company tax payouts by an estimated $ 1,000m. What then does the Opposition intend to do? Does it intend having a bigger deficit? Would  Mr Fraser  advise a bigger deficit or more cuts? Speeches made by Opposition members indicate a policy of cuts, cuts, cuts. I repeat that the savings will come from the same place from which they have always come. Savings obviously cannot be made in the field of defence because every time there is a debate on defence in this House members of the Opposition advocate greater expenditure. 
This Budget polarises the Liberal Party and the Labor Party and gives a clear indication to the people of Australia what they are supporting when they support either the Liberal Party or the Labor Party. This is a Budget in which the Government has made every effort to be responsible and yet still hold to its philosophy of putting people first. Having heard  Mr Fraser  speak last Tuesday week I repeat that the Australian people must know exactly where they stand when they are looking at the fortunes of either of the main parties. The Labor Party stands where it has always stood- firmly on a platform of social welfare and firmly in support of the principle that the people's needs come first. There is a complete polarisation of both parties following the two speeches, one from the Treasurer and one from  Mr Fraser.  Those who are voting in the next election should be under no illusions as to the philosophy for which they are voting. 
The Ayn Rand philosophy comes out very clearly from  Mr Fraser  's speeches, both in the House and when he addressed the National Press Club. In fact I think the philosophy has been strengthened. It was always the philosophy of the former Government when it came to handing out increases for social security, for repatriation, for sickness, for invalid and for unemployment benefits to look at what was available and never to look at the needs. It always looked at how popular it was in the electorate. It is a right wing philosophy and it is being re-endorsed and reaffirmed. It is a survival of the fittest policy. It rejects the philosophy of people being dependent on government for basic services such as health, education and retirement. It is the same attitude as comes through when  Mr Fraser  says: 'In our view the Budget does not meet the problems that Australia faces. It does not adequately restrain government spending'. He obviously wanted a lower deficit. AU persons should really be worried if they look into the philosophy that is being expounded by the Opposition. The appeal is to individual selfishness, to individual greed and to individual independence. It takes no note of the fact that aU individuals are not able to be independent. 

 Mr Fraser 's statement at the Press Club luncheon that the next Liberal Government will strongly reassert the right of families and individuals to retain their own earnings so that they can meet their needs 'as they see fit'- this is his emphasis not mine- -implicitly says that we all have the ability to provide for our own needs out of our own earnings. I think that it further implies and voters should take note of this, that if a person cannot provide for his own needs out of his own earnings it is bad luck, he cannot expect a government to do it. That philosophy is quite foreign to what we have been putting forward. I know that our policy of social reform has cost a lot, but it has also provided tremendous impetus in the fields of the sick, the old and the handicapped. The costs have to be met. They have to be met out of revenue. There is no way in which we can provide community services unless they come out of federal revenue. This attitude or philosophy that appeals to individual selfishness is something that should surely be rejected in 1975. 
There must be a sense of responsibility in each and every one in regard to making this Budget work, in regard to defeating rising inflation, in regard to getting back to full employment and, most importantly in regard to the care and compassion that we extend to those who cannot meet their own needs out of their own earnings. The Liberal philosophy rejects enforced equality in the work place, in the economy and in education. The Labor philosophy says there is one clear goal that the national Parliament should set for itself which should define and motivate every specific action that we take. I refer to the goal of equality. As the  Age  remarked in respect of the next election: 
Battle lines are drawn and no one should be able to say afterwards that they did not know the gun was loaded. 
We Will move back into the 19th century if we put forward the argument that ability to pay is the only way a person Will have access to the standard of living for which most people are looking. We will move back into the 19th century if we accept that broad philosophy of survival of the fittest. I commend the Budget to the House. 
I would like to say a few words tonight about Medibank. We have heard a number of accusations about Medibank being abused. I would Uke to look at the situation from the patients' point of view. Honourable members know that the practice is to see a doctor and collect a prescription. But they may have to obtain a repeat prescription. It has been my experience that one calls in to pick up the repeat prescription from the nurse and pay $1 for the service. That is fair enough. It is now being said that if a man perhaps has to collect a prescription for his wife who is home in bed he cannot collect it as the patient must collect it herself. It is said that this is a new regulation brought in by the Labor Government as part and parcel of Medibank and that doctors can no longer hand a prescription to anyone but the patient for whom the medicine is prescribed. That is patently untrue. It is unfair. I hope the Government can get the message through to patients that it does not expect someone suffering from a heart attack to get out of bed, go down and pick up his own heart tablets. The Government has not altered the Act; it has simply altered the method by which one pays for the service. 
Another thing that happens with a minority of doctors- if only one doctor is doing it that is bad enough- is that when a person goes in and picks up his repeat prescription from the nurse she hands him a Medibank form and asks him to sign it. This cannot be done. The doctor must see the patient. If he does not have a consultation with the patient he is in breach of the Act. He cannot charge a patient on a Medibank form unless he has seen the patient. This is also an offence against the taxpayer who is paying the bill, because all it is doing is lining the doctor's pocket by taking money out of the taxpayer's pocket. 
One other point about Medibank that has been drawn to my attention is that most pensioners are now being asked to pay their accounts at the doctor's surgery because doctors will not bulk bill them. I discovered in my electorate that several of the doctors say: 'This is because we want to treat all people alike. We want to give the pensioners back their dignity'. I do not know about that but I do not treat an old sick person in the same way as I treat a young, active, healthy person. Certainly, if I were a doctor and a pensioner came in, and I wanted that pensioner to pay on the spot, and I knew that that pensioner would have to walk perhaps three-quarters of a mile to receive a refund, I would treat that pensioner as an old, sick person and not expect him or her to walk that distance, perhaps in the rain, in order to get a refund on my bill. Sometimes the amount involved could be all the money that a pensioner has in his pocket or all the money that he has to purchase food. 
On the brighter side, I advertised in my electorate by letter in a newspaper for doctors who would bulk bill pensioners and/or other patients to get in touch with me. I was absolutely delighted at the response. I now have a list of the names of doctors who will bulk bill pensioners and also a list of doctors who will bulk bill everybody. I am advertising also in the paper for anyone at all who wishes to make use of Medibank as it was designed to be used to contact my office which will be able to supply the name of a doctor who provides these services and who is located closest to the person writing. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister and ask: Is it a fact that the burden of personal income taxation is now effectively lower than it was in the last year in which the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office? 
Can the Treasurer say whether tax indexation is compatible with basing revenue reimbursements to the States on a fixed percentage of tax collections? 
I am interested in what the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  had to say about the price of petrol in Victoria. I do not know where he gets his information that the price is 57c a gallon in Melbourne because I am paying 61c. But he should be very glad that his electorate is in Victoria because in New South Wales, where the Liberal Government brought in a petrol tax, people are currently paying 78c. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  was not critical of barter trade. He approves of it. I was interested to learn that the honourable member for Wimmera recognises and approves of barter trade also. I think it might be a good idea if he discussed it with his leader, because in speaking to the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  did not seem to have any faith at all in the barter system. 
I offer my congratulations to the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  for the understanding he has shown in his portfolio. He has been able to pursue matters that are of vital concern to Australian overseas trade interests and has been diligent in establishing and fostering working dialogues with his counterparts overseas. So much of our future security depends so heavily on the goodwill and understanding that the Minister and his departmental officers can foster with our trading partners. 
The Minister has currently before Parliament a Bill to establish an Australian Overseas Trading Corporation. I think our economic growth and well-being depend heavily on the growth of our overseas trade. It has to be a two-way trade, in both exports and in imports. This financial year the total value of Australian trade- imports and exports- should exceed $ 1,600m. But the growing complexities of international trade, in the new climate of the wealthy oil countries, demand more and more government involvement. Whilst this may be a change from the way in which Australia has traded previously, change comes and it has to be accepted. All major world trading nations now have a degree of direct and indirect government involvement in their overseas trade. We must update our trading program and reappraise what appear to be gaps in our own overseas trading machinery. 
It has never appeared to me to be wise to hold on to methods of operation that may have served well during one decade but have become outmoded in another era. No one- not even the Opposition- would dispute that in our trade we are playing in a new ball game at the moment. We need to be better equipped to move into trading areas which we have not entered before. Whilst recognising and valuing our 3 major markets- Japan, the United States of America and the European Economic Community- if we are to expand our markets we must move into trading with new partners as well. We will have to look to the centrally planned economies and the Middle East oil exporting countries to increase our trade. It is in these areas that government to government involvement in commercial transactions is becoming more prevalent. 
In Australia we have no machinery for this type of involvement, and the Minister and the Government recognise this. Their answer is the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation. Such a Corporation would also assist those manufacturing firms which are too small to engage alone in overseas trade. The Corporation could act as a clearing house for a number of these small manufacturing establishments. It will have 3 tiers. There will be trade arrangements with the Middle East oil exporting countries and trade with the centrally planned economies, which has been neglected in this country for far too long. Great trade opportunities exist there for imaginative manufacturers and businessmen. Australian manufacturers have had little experience in trading with or even understanding the centrally planned economies. The Australian Overseas Trading Corporation can help to overcome many of the problems and much of the misunderstanding. It can provide a sellingpurchasing agency. The Middle East oil exporting countries seek comprehensive long term government to government arrangements on foodstuffs, capital equipment and technology. The Corporation could act as a co-ordinating instrument for trading at a level which would appear to be beyond the capacity of individual Australian firms. 
I know that the Opposition opposed it. I cannot understand why honourable members opposite did so when they are always calling out about the need to increase trade. One would imagine that if they were interested in increasing trade they would be interested in increasing markets. The Opposition insists that Australia alone is experiencing inflation and unemployment, but every comparable country is in much the same position. This was stated at the recent International Monetary Fund conference, as my colleague the honourable member for Eden-Monaro mentioned earlier. In all the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries consumer demand is down. At home, business confidence is being kept at a low ebb by the continual irresponsible rumours from the Opposition about an early election. It is almost impossible for business interests to plan ahead if they feel that they are being threatened with a change of government. I would say that one of the reasons for the continuing rumours is that the trough of the current recession has already passed and that the so far weak recovery in output and demand will continue to strengthen over the rest of the financial year. 
This is showing up in a variety of areas. There has been an increase in the production of bricks, a slow pick-up in dwelling investment and in household durables. There has been an increase in the production of domestic refrigerators and domestic washing machines. In these areas of consumer durables there was a real consumer backlash last year. The fact that they are picking up shows that there is a pick-up in our general economy, and this is probably the reason why we are continually threatened with an election. There has been a substantial increase in the production of woven cotton cloth. This is a good indication that the textile industry, which has been pretty heavily hit, is also on the way up. Consumer spending has risen marginally over the past few months. There has been an extraordinary overflow of disposable income into savings. The Budget which was introduced recently sought to deal with inflation at a slow rate rather than hitting it heavily because this savings dam could quickly create excessive demand should consumer expectations suddenly rise. 
In these days of economic difficulty in all comparable countries the Minister for Overseas Trade is to be congratulated for the successful negotiations he has had with many countries and, not the least, for the agreement with New Zealand that recent economic movements would not result in action which would retard the development of the very valuable New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement. Agreement has been reached that where temporary limitations become necessary these should be introduced and administered in such a way as to preserve the co-operation in trading matters between these 2 countries. It is a further indication of the Minister's work that the Prime Ministers of New Zealand and Australia have agreed that a comprehensive study should be undertaken of ways of achieving more effectively the fundamental objective of making the best possible use of the resources of each country, to our mutual benefit This study should chart the path or further development of the trans-Tasman trade for the next four or five years, with benefits flowing back to our own manufacturers and business houses. 
We have also attempted to strengthen our trade and economic relations with the independent African countries. To this end we have opened a Trade Commissioner post in Lagos, Nigeria, and have strengthened the Nairobi post. Increased trade with these countries may well be of great value in the future both for them and for Australia. We have to look afresh not only at where we are going to trade but also at what we are going to use for trading. We must consider manufactured items as well as primary products. The year 1974-75 has seen a marked easing in imports and a continued strong export performance. This is in contrast to 1973-74 when the reverse was the case. Exports on a recorded trade basis were valued at $8,709m in 1974-75, an increase of over 26 per cent over the previous year. That is hardly the picture of a country that has been brought to its knees. 
I think that most honourable members will have heard about the matter of electoral redistribution often enough. But I believe it is an important issue and that it is right and proper that we continue to bring these Bills before the Parliament and before the people of Australia. A redistribution of boundaries of each State is long overdue. Many voters are disfranchised under the present borders. If we look at the electorates in Victoria, we see that the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  represents 49 700 voters, but that my colleague the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  supposedly represents 85 000 voters. If one were to take a real count of the electorate of the honourable member for La Trobe, it would be found that he represents something like 95 000 voters in an area that is partly urban, partly rural and an extremely large area to boot. Similarly, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  represents only 54 000 voters while my colleague, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  has something like 90 000 voters in his electorate. While I endorse the idea that my colleagues on this side of the chamber are better equipped to cope with the extra voters and still give better service, I submit that the voter is entitled to have the value of his vote equal to that of every other voter. 
I recognise the difficulty of members representing country electorates, but I agree with my colleague, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who pointed out that those honourable members do not really service their areas to the extent that we with city electorates do. They really do not take the same responsibility for policies and for debate in this chamber outside the areas of beef, wheat, wool and other similar subjects. I am not decrying their importance but I am yet to hear any member of the National Country Party rise to his feet and take an interest in technical education, immigration or social welfare. 
-No one would deny that we need a redistribution. The last time we had one, from memory, was in 1968 which is 7 years ago. No one could deny that the proposed redistribution is the fairest we have seen for the Australian electorate. When the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  spoke he said that we have not seen very many Australian Labor Party governments. He is quite right of course, but more people vote Labor each election than for any other party and they have done so in every election bar the one in 1966. The way the Opposition throughout its years in government has gerrymandered the single member electorates, we have to do so much better than the Opposition parties have done if we are going to win them. One look at the situation in Queensland, where the State Country Party leader whom I suppose we could call the bastion of democracy rules with 20 per cent of the vote, shows what the Country Party philosophy really is. It just says: 'Give us the power; give us the seats. Forget about justice and forget about the people's rights. : What else does the Country Party say? It says: 'Let us drive a wedge between the city people and the country people. Let us pretend we have got walls around the city people and the city electorates and that there is something quite different about country people'. The real truth of the matter is that people and people's problems, whether the people are in the city or in the country, are paramount to the members who represent them and so they should be. The Country Party says: 'Give us the seats and we will just sit there, even if we produce nothing'. Let us be clear about this. We in this place do not represent square miles. We are representing people, or we should be representing people. Many of us are, but I would suggest that many honourable members sitting opposite are not representing people. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  spoke of the situation in Tasmania. He intimated that we should also make seats in Tasmania larger if our argument of one vote one value is to hold water, but the honourable member surely must be aware that the Constitution sets down the minimum number of seats for a State as small as Tasmania. 
-While you may like to kick the Constitution around as your Party has been doing over the past  2Vi  years we are not prepared to do so. My Party believes in parliamentary democracy. We are not the ones who are trying to wipe out the foundations of the system. We are not the ones knocking down the precedents and conventions. We leave that to you. The honourable member knows full well that we cannot enlarge the seats in Tasmania and his is a dishonest argument to be putting forward. The honourable member is also aware that our intention in regard to these Bills is to make each seat as close to each other in numbers as we possibly can. We are aware of the moving population as distinct from the fairly stable country communities. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I was very interested to hear what the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  had to say in regard to free telephones for pensioners. I will be watching with great interest when the Opposition's social welfare policy is tabled to see whether the matter which the honourable member raised is included in the policy. 
When this Government first came into office in December 1972 it came in at an extraordinarily difficult time. In a desperate attempt to save itself from destruction the former Liberal-Country Party Government poured a tremendous amount of money into the economy, making finance far too freely available and pushing us into a very dangerous situation with too much money chasing too few goods. From 2 December 1972 the freely elected government of this country, elected under the same system as every other government, that is, elected to serve for 3 years, has never been free from threat from the Oppositionwhich has never been prepared to see itself as an Opposition. The present Opposition gave the nation 23 years of non-government, but each successive government was allowed to rule for its full term after each election. 
Under our Westminster system governments are elected to serve for 3 years. I think that is too short a term. I think it should be 5 years because a government needs to plan ahead. However, following the extraordinary double dissolution in 1974 when, desperate again to regain government, the Liberal-Country Party forces pushed this country into another $4m election, Labor was again the choice of the people. Again we were elected to rule for 3 years; again we had a mandate. Again, and in line with the Constitution, we were elected to govern the country. From 18 May 1974 we have had again exactly the same pattern of lawlessness emanating from the Opposition benches. We have seen the procession of leaders throughout the LiberalCountry Party coalition over the past years since the resignation of  Sir Robert  Menzies and we have seen also the coalition's slow disintegration. It is almost impossible for a government to go about its business with serenity when it is under constant threat. 
The people of Australia are in danger because of the constant threat to our parliamentary system. We on this side of the House are dedicated to the parliamentary system, the system that has served us well over many years. The people of Australia should be aware of the threat that is posed to them by these constant attacks on convention and precedent. These constant attacks come from an Opposition that is not interested in whether the Budget is a good Budget or not. It is not interested in whether the country is coming out of a recession. It is simply interested in taking the Treasury benches. I believe that Australia is in a position of extreme danger. Once you start white-anting away at the foundations, as the Opposition has been doing since 1972- whiteanting the foundations of our democratic systemit is a hop, step and jump before the system crumbles. A democratic system at any time hangs by a very fragile thread. It hangs by the thread of convention, precedent and integrity. We have seen much of this swept aside in the last 2Vi years by the Opposition. I believe that the entire system is under threat by the Opposition. It is an impossible situation when a government is elected and not allowed to serve its term. If this is to be the pattern, if we are to have polls every 12 months, or every 6 months, the people of Australia will have bargain basement government. No government when faced with the possibility of an election will bring down an unpopular Budget although governments at times do have to make unpopular decisions. Governments in such a position will introduce Budgets designed to catch votes. The result is bargain basement government. 
The other very big danger of this constant threat against the freely elected government is that it serves notice on the people that the present system has to be re-assessed. What we need would be a party which is very strong in both the House of Representatives and in the Senate. 
You do not really mind if you decimate the system, but I care. What is needed is one party which is very strong in both Houses. If we look at history we can see that the direction in which we are heading is just a hop, step and jump from the Germany that evolved when Hitler took over. So I think there is a very real threat to our democracy. I think that those on the opposite side of the House who have talked for so long and so hypocritically about law and order should have a look at their own motives and at what they are doing in their lust to get back into government. I would like to quote to the House some extracts from a letter which was written by  Senator Steele  Hall, with whom I do not usually have much in common, to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He said: 
I hope you will at least consider my prediction that if you take, or attempt to take, the Prime Minister's office by the device of a vote in the Senate, your leadership capacity will automatically degenerate to the disadvantage of the Liberal Party. 
I heartily agree with that. He went on to say: 
If, conversely, you 'assemble' your members in the Senate to reject Supply, you will consciously destroy the stability of Australian politics . . . 
I completely concur with that. It would be utterly ludicrous if the people of this country were forced to the polls before 1 977. If this happened the taxpayer would have to foot the bill for another $4m election- the third election in 3 years. Democracy is under a threat, our way of life is under threat, if we consistently turn our backs on precedents, conventions and traditions that have served us well since Federation. 
Constant speculation by the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  on some great crisis forming to make it necessary for them to knock back the Budget is just so much hogwash. The real fact is that the Opposition just wants power. It is irrelevant to them whether the Budget is serving the people well. It is irrelevant to them that most of the monitors show that the economy is picking up. It is irrelevant to them that this continual threat of election erodes not only the confidence of the investors and businessmen but also the confidence of the people of Australia. It is irrelevant to them whether the Budget has been successful, and this is borne out by the survey that they commissioned, a survey to find out whether in fact the Opposition would become unpopular if it knocked back the Budget or knocked back Supply. What an extraordinary survey to commission! The Opposition is not concerned about the ethics or principles involved but whether it can win an election. If the Australian people are to sit back and allow their system of government to be capsized at the will of an Opposition wanting office regardless of the performance of the freely elected government of the day, this country is approaching a system of anarchy and this is something that the Opposition has always professed to despise. Their approach is next door to anarchy. I think the Australian people should be leaping up and down in fury at the attacks that are being made upon them. I say loud and clear: There is no known way that the Leader of the Opposition will be able to keep himself free from the criticism of highly unethical behaviour if he succumbs to the temptation- I do not say pressure because I think it will be temptation- and ambition to push for an election either before Christmas or by next May. He will not be able to keep his skirts clear. He will be seen to do what he does. He will be seen to be the man who hit the foundations of our system with perhaps the final blow that will collapse it. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction I would like to congratulate the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson),  the previous Minister for Housing and Construction, together with the present Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan),  for many of the innovations introduced in the last 2Vi years which were pretty long overdue. In particular I refer to the tax deductability scheme for housing interest payments. This scheme has helped more than 1.3 million families throughout Australia at a cost of $ 130m. I also mention the special appropriation of $150m to savings banks for housing loans and the increased expenditure on aged persons housing. The expenditure has been increased from $30m in 1972-73, which was the last year of the LiberalCountry Party Government, to $56m last year. I think these innovations have been of great benefit not only to the building industry throughout Australia but also in all fields of welfare housing. 
I would like to comment also on a ministerial statement issued by the Victorian Minister for Housing,  Mr Dickie.  A couple of points need to be answered. It is not true that a drastic cutback has been made in advances this year to Victoria for welfare housing. The figures are irrefutable. There has not been a drastic cutback. In fact if one goes through the figures carefully, as  Mr Dickie  evidently failed to do- I give him the benefit of the doubt; he may have done so but brought up a better story- one will find that all types of housing in Victoria received a total of $1 12.7m from this Government for the 1975-76 year. Certainly there has not been any drastic cut. The amount of $68.7m going to the State Housing Commission this year is a record. It is $6.9m more than last year's total. Certainly the entire welfare housing advance this year to Victoria is the same as last year- it is $98. lm- but the proportion going to the Housing Commission is greater. 

 Mr Dickie also failed to note in his ministerial statement that the ratio of the advance is made at the request of the State Government. It was not our decision to split the funds into amounts of $68.7m and $29.4m. It was done in the way the State Government requested it to be done. The Housing Commission's portion is $68. 7m, which is 70 per cent of the total. The remaining 30 per cent, which is advanced to the terminating building societies for lending to low income home buyers, is $29.4m. In commenting on  Mr Dickie's  ministerial statement I refer to where the Minister said that in 1974 Victoria had $8m unspent of its allocation from the Australian Government. I find this interesting. Further down in his statement he points out that there was a building boom on in Victoria at that time and the Housing Commission had a great difficulty in obtaining enough builders to interest themselves in government contracts. I find that very interesting. In my electorate the Holmesglen Construction Co. has a tremendous capacity. It has something like 93 tables which can be used in connection with the manufacture of concrete components. The company has been under threat from the Housing Commission for a period of years. Its work force has been depleted because not enough work has been coming from the Housing Commission to keep the company operating at full pace. If this money has been available and in fact has been unspent at the end of any financial year I wonder why it has not been put into the Holmesglen Construction Co. to hold onto a skilled work force instead of seeing it dispersed. 
Again this year we have heard in my electorate rumours that more of the work force, which is already depleted, could be put off because the factory is no longer economically viable. No factory will be economically viable if it does not get a full flow of work to cut down its production costs. If the Victorian Housing Commission has available this amount of money and it was unspent at the end of the year, I should like to know why it was not using this factory to its capacity. The factory is capable of turning out the full components needed for the building of primary schools. In fact it can turn out the entire components for a primary school within 7 days. 
In Spring Road, Springvale, there is a perfect example of the type of building that can be turned out by the Holmesglen Construction Company, if it were working to capacity, at a much cheaper rate than educational buildings that are built by the State education department in Victoria today. If one is building through the non-government sector one will get a school reasonably quickly and for about $90,000 less than one can get it through the State education department 
I should like to know why the Holmesglen factory is being allowed to run down and why skilled workers are being put off at a time when we need them to be kept on when the allocation to Victoria is at a record level- $6.9m above last year's figure. At the same time the Victorian Minister does not point out in his statement that the split-up of the allocation was at his own request. Incidentally,  Mr Dickie's  claim that the increase in the Victorian Housing Commission rents should be blamed on Canberra is just one more poor attempt to cover up the inadequacy in the State. Housing Commission rents are a State matter and  Mr Dickie  knows that as well as I do. As the Commission is being advanced this year the highest amount that it has ever received in one year I would have imagined that he would have done his bit to hold rents down. 
Another point which I wanted to bring up is the tied grants that go to State housing in all the States. I have not been able to get hold of a copy of the federalism plan of the Opposition, but I am interested to know what will happen to those tied grants under the federalism plan. What will happen to the welfare housing money? Will the States raise it themselves through their own taxes, or through a double tax or double slug? How will the smaller States then make up the amounts which they are going to need for their welfare housing if the money will have to be raised through extra taxes by the States themselves? Even with the tied grants as we have them now the States wriggle out from their responsibility. One need only look at what Victoria has done in the technical education sphere to see how they can wriggle out. The larger the tied grant that comes from the Australian Government for technical education the less that is put in by the responsible government, or what should be the responsible government. I think the system would completely collapse if the States were to raise their own money in their own way through their own populations, regardless of the disparity between them, and to set their own priorities on the spending of it. I hazard a guess that welfare housing will come a pretty bad last if it is to be left in the hands of the States to raise the money. 
As I did last year I should like to congratulate the 2 Ministers on establishing the Australian Housing Corporation. I believe it was an imaginative innovation which will provide home loans to low income families who may perhaps never have any opportunity to own a home or may not even be able to get a subsidised rental home. In Melbourne it is pretty hard to get a Housing Commission home. The list is  4y2  years long if one has fewer than 5 children. If one has 5 children the list is cut down to about 2 years. I believe the Australian Housing Corporation is a very imaginative step. I wish it very well. I think the flexibility within the Act is extremely interesting and will lead to a lot more families- particularly families of deserted wives and those Aborigines who are not able to move into home ownership- being able to buy a home, which is the dream of most of us, through the Australian Housing Corporation. 
I was rather interested to see that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser stated that in his alternative budget that he would dispense with the Australian Housing Corporation. I am also interested to see that the State Premiers, mainly the non-Labor State Premiers, are calling for extra allocations for their housing programs. I wonder whether they have ever got together with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I presume they all come from the same Party, yet he is calling for cut-backs in our spending and they are calling for increases. It might not be a bad idea if they got together to decide which they want. 

 -Mr Speaker, my attention has been drawn to several paragraphs in today's  Australian Financial Review.  I should like to tell the House that I could not have spoken in such terms as I am not really quite so familiar with aspects of the oil industry to have spoken that way. I am also not aware of any alleged precedent set by this Government on sales. I have taken letters from  Mr Sykes  to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and to other Ministers on many occasions during a period of 18 months. While I was aware of the contents of some of the letters, many of them were hand-written and very difficult to decipher. I certainly refute the suggestion that I could be aware of the contents of all of them. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In response to what was said by the honourable member for Chisholm I point out that in my phone call to  Mr Sykes  yesterday I stated that the reputed conversation had not taken place. I reaffirm that. 
Has the Minister for Education seen recent criticisms of the amount of money to be made available for Victorian Government schools in the calendar year 1976? Is it valid to refer to $9.2m capital being available for the first 6 months of 1976? What is the share, capital and recurrent, for Victorian Government schools from the $465.2m to be made available by the Australian Government in the year 1976? What was the Victorian State schools' share of the $784m, capital and recurrent, available from the Australian Government for Australian schools in the 2 years 1974 and 1975? 
-It is a measure of the concern that the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  feels that he abandoned the set speech that he uses on every occasion to get set into  Mr Whitlam,  the Prime Minister. I remind the Leader of the National Country Party that he is not taking on the Government over this issue, he is taking on the people of Australia and there is a big difference. In line with many thousands of fellow Australians, I also am extremely distressed that the Opposition in the Senate has acted in the way it has acted. I believe it has a clear responsibility to the people of Australia to make sure that political opportunism does not rebound on the people. It is the people who elect us and they must be our first responsibility. It is obvious that they are not regarded in that way by the Opposition when the Leader of the National Country Party says that he will take on the Government in the streets or anywhere we like. It is the people of Australia that we are talking about. I spoke on this subject in the Grievance debate about a fortnight ago. I am not sure whether I am a prophet but I then said: 
From 2 December 1972 the freely elected government of this country, elected under the same system as every other government, that is, elected to serve for 3 years, has never been free from threat from the Opposition which has never been prepared to see itself as an Opposition. 
The present Opposition sat on the treasury bench for 23 years.  (Quorum formed)  On 18 May 1974 the Labor Party was again elected to govern and since then we have had exactly the same pattern of lawlessness emanating from the Opposition benches. We have seen the procession of leaders throughout the Liberal-Country Party coalition over the past years since the resignation of  Sir Robert  Menzies and we have seen also the coalition's slow disintegration. What I want to say today is that this is no longer just a political conflict between Labor and Liberal. It is no longer a conflict between conservative and progressive. It is no longer a conflict between tory and socialist. It is not a conflict between left and right. Very simply, it is a struggle to protect our Australian way of life, to protect our democratic parliamentary system and to maintain stability in government. The people in the streets have shown their concern for stability in government. Many of them are not Labor supporters and they may not vote Labor when we go to the polls in 1977 but they are determined to protect a way of life that has served us well. 
I urge the Senate to pay attention to its own role. It cannot continue to claim that it is the States House of review, that it represents the 
States' rights, and then usurp the long established convention that the people's house governs. To delay or defer money Bills is not the normal work of the Senate. We have a responsibility in this House to protect our system of democracy. The disruption to administration and to funding could cause hardship for many people. It could cause hardship at the time of the year when most people are winding down for the holiday period, preparing to relax over the Christmas holidays. This is the time of the year when people like to have just those few extra luxuries. They go away for their holidays and require just that little bit more. But this is not going to happen this year. It is not going to happen because of the tactics of the Opposition in the Senate. 
Deferring the Budget will have the same effect on those dependent on government finance as a straight out rejection. I admit that it would have taken a lot more courage to reject the Budget. I accept the fact that the Opposition in the Senate did nor reject the Budget but deferred it. As a result of this action councils will have to wait for their money, voluntary organisations will have to wait on finance and many people who have arranged bridging finance will find themselves in trouble. Those who are waiting on defence service loans also are going to find themselves in trouble. Medibank payments could be disrupted. There are so many ramifications from this Senate action that could flow right through the community. 
The business of government should not be disrupted in this way. The Senate has a role to play as the House of review and it should not take unto itself the role of disrupting the work of the elected government. It should not disrupt our established system of government. I believe that the system which is based on the principle that governments operate through the House of Representatives has served us well over many years. This is the people's House. It is the House where the will of the people is heard. If we are to stand by and watch the system destroyed we are all under threat. If we are to be forced to the polls whenever an Opposition thinks it can win a ballot, we are in jeopardy. If we are to face yearly elections, we are facing bargain basement government. 
Elections are due in May 1977. This is when the voice of the people should be heard. The Leader of the National Country Party kept telling us to go to the people. We have been to the people twice in 3 years. How often do we have to go to the people? Liberal-Country Party governments went to the people once every 3 years. Are there new rules drawn up when Labor comes into office? We believe that this is a responsible Budget and that it should be allowed to pass. We believe also that the path the Opposition has set us on is a path fraught with destruction. Conventions and precedents cannot be broken lightly. Governments simply cannot submit to blackmail. I quote the following passage to honourable members: 
If the Parliament becomes unworkable by destruction of convention, democracy itself becomes unworkable because democracy rests much more on adherence to convention than to the rigid application of rules and laws. 
They are not my words, although I heartily concur with them, but the words used by the Leader of the Liberal Party, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during a radio talk on 2 March this year. I think it is extraordinary to find the extent to which his attitude to democracy has been white-anted since then. 
I refer also to something that was said by the Leader of the National Country Party. If the right honourable member is taking any comfort to his heart from the results of the elections in Queensland and Bass- and it is in line with the thinking of members of the National Country Party always to live in the past and to be guided by the principle of 'do not get a new thought; it might frighten you'- he should have been on the steps of Parliament House today after he left what was the Liberal and National Country Parties' rally outside this House and was booed across to and up the steps because the Prime Minister then came out on to the steps. The people outside the House were not our people. We did not organise this rally. The Leader of the National Country Party said: 'They know the Prime Minister'. They do know the Prime Minister and that is why they are calling: 'We want Gough'. It will be of no comfort to the right honourable member to look back to Bass or to look back to South Australia where Labor still holds government. It will be no comfort to him to look back to what has happened in Queensland. Even the Queensland people are condemning their own Premier and their own Governor who stepped outside his correct role. 
I believe that at the moment Australia is in a position of extreme danger. Once we start whiteanting away at the foundations of the democratic system, as the Opposition has been doing since 1972, it is one hop, step and a jump before the system collapses. A democratic system at any time hangs by a very fragile thread. It hangs by a thread of convention, precedent and integrity. We have seen so much of this swept aside in the last  2Vi  years by the Opposition. The entire system can be under threat; it can crumble. 
I reject any of the accusations made by the Leader of the National Country Party against our Ministers and what they have had to say in our Caucus room because that is where we find democracy at work. It is the place where everyone gets a vote and where the principle of one vote one value is maintained. That is what this entire struggle is really all about: It is an attempt by the National Country Party members to hang onto a system that serves them, even if it serves them at the expense of every other thinking person in Australia. We will not surrender. 
It is always very interesting to hear the comments of the Victorian Minister for Housing in regard to allocations that come from the Federal Government. If we take these comments in conjunction with the comments made by the Victorian Minister for Education we find that there is very skilful misrepresentation by both gentlemen of the amounts of money they receive. For some odd reason they seem to be unable to understand that if one maintains the level of spending one has maintained it. They always claim that there has been a cut. The Victorian Minister for Housing has been bleating for the last 8 months that he is going to have to close down the Holmesglen factory. I tell him now, as I have told him before- and I tell the Opposition- that if he ran the Holmesglen factory efficiently we would save a lot of the Australian taxpayers' money that goes to the State for housing. The factory has never run to capacity. Because it is not run to capacity the end production, the concrete units that come out of it, are extremely costly. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  compared figures. He quoted a figure of $163m with which the Opposition was concerned when it was in office. He compared this figure with the value of the houses which we had built I draw his attention to the correct figures. I do not know from what he was quoting. But the correct comparison is approximately 15 000 for the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1971-72 and 22 340 for this year under this Government. This shows an approximate 50 per cent increase. I think that the honourable member's figures are out of date and I suggest that he have them checked. 
When the Opposition talks about how many houses can be built with a certain amount of money, it never considers the cost of land. The cost of land has escalated in every State, except South Australia, to an extraordinary degree. The Federal Government cannot control the cost of land, and the State Liberal governments will not attempt to control it. I would have been happier to hear the honourable member for Boothby advising his counterparts in the States to do something about controlling the appalling price of land, because if there is one single thing that is putting home ownership beyond the reach of young married couples, taking into account the rate of inflation, it is the price of land. This is particularly so in Victoria. The honourable member for Boothby also referred to a $20m cut in the allocation to the States. He cannot have his cake and eat it too. The Government has maintained its spending on welfare housing. Last year the States received an extra $ 10m, making a total allocation of $374m. In June this year they were advanced $10m, which made a total of $3 84m. This year they have received $364m. If one adds to that the $ 10m that was advanced in June one sees that the Government has maintained its spending. 
I am always pleased to be able to support the Government's initiatives on housing because, of all the problems which my constituents in Henty bring to my office, the largest single problem is housing. I notice that when the honourable members opposite talk about housing they always talk about money; they never talk about people. That seems to be one of the odd quirks about members of the Opposition. The honourable member for Boothby said that the private sector is in trouble. I pointed out to him that it will be in even deeper trouble as a result of the action of the Opposition in the Senate. Those people who have accepted Government tenders and who are waiting to be paid for them will go bankrupt while they are waiting to be paid. It will not be this Government's fault if they become bankrupt; it will be because the Opposition has chosen to tread a path that is very dangerous for it and that could cause chaos and destruction to the private sector of the building industry. 
No other problem causes people more misery than inadequate or over-priced housing. A home is basic to our security. We build our whole way of life on it. This Government attaches great importance to welfare housing. The amount of $364m- it is really $374m- has been allocated for welfare housing in accordance with the 1973-74 Housing Agreement. The distribution is given in the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  so I will not go through it. A comparison with the figure of $ 1 6 1 m for 1 97 1 -72 -the last year of the Liberal-Country Party Government- shows that this Government gives priority to housing for people who cannot afford to buy or build through private tender. The $364m represents a real increase in spending, even allowing for inflation. The Government is looking for further improvements in the provision of welfare housing. It is interesting to note that a significant recovery is apparent in the private home building sector. Approvals for private dwellings in the June quarter exceeded 30 000, compared with 24 000 in the December quarter. I am sorry that I do not have with me the figures put out recently in Victoria which show an even greater increase that is on the way. The private sector was starting to pick up and to get into operation until recently when it was dealt this last body blow by the Senate.  (Quorum formed) 
I thank the  Deputy  Opposition Whip for providing me with an audience. The advances to the States are apportioned by consultation between the Minister and the various State Housing Ministers. The State Housing Minister in Victoria claims that this Government itself has apportioned the money for this State and has apportioned it in such a way that the Housing Commission will be disadvantaged. I repeat that this Government does not apportion the money. It is done by consultation. This was done by agreement. Victoria asked that 70 per cent of its allocation go to the Housing Commission, which is an increase on last year, and that 30 per cent go to the home builders account, which is a decrease on last year but which was its choice. Victoria is maintaining its grant at the same level as last year and has no right to continue to threaten to close the Holmesglen construction factory because the Housing Commission money has been cut. By its own wishes, the allocation that has been maintained has been split differently and a greater amount is going into Housing Commission spending. I also repeat, because it may get through eventually, that if the Victorian Government ran its factory efficiently it would achieve value for the dollar. Perhaps the members of the Victorian Government have never been in the position of working in a factory where every month people are threatened with the sack. If they had, perhaps they would give some security to those who have worked for many years in the Housing Commission and the Holmesglen construction factory and who have given very good service. The end product depends upon the flow-through in factories such as Holmesglen.  (Quorum formed)  Evidently Opposition members who have not been in the House all day are more intent on stifling debate on the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill than on listening to it. 
However welcome more money may be to all the State housing commissions, that is not the basic reason for the lack of housing available at reasonable rents. More money will not cope completely with the welfare housing problem. Its roots go very deep and go back into the years when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power, uninterrupted, for 23 years. That Government did not even get down to the basic problem or the need for providing welfare housing. During its 23 years of office- I repeat, uninterruptedit did not even get down to the basic problem of attempting to harness the price of land. One big thing that sends the price of a house sky high is the uncontrolled price of land. In Victoria as I am sure is the case in other areas, it is the developers who jump onto the land and send the price skyrocketing. It has also been the practice in Victoria that enormous tracts of land are bought by the Housing Commission out of taxpayers money at greatly inflated prices and the only people who make any profit out of this are certainly not the people who should be benefiting from the welfare housing but the developer. 
The State control or lack of control is responsible for the tremendous increases in the price of land. The crocodile tears that come from the Opposition concerning housing for the old people or for young couples do not impress me at all. Members of the Opposition should look at their track record. It is there for everyone to see both in the Federal and the State sphere. There has been no move from honourable members opposite or from their State counterparts to hold the price of land from escalating. There are large waiting lists in Victoria for Housing Commission homes. One waits for  2  to  2Vi  years if one has  5  children or more, and one waits for  4  years if one has fewer than  5  children. The real tragedy lies with those who cannot find adequate housing. It is people we are talking about here really and people's lives, not the actual houses. Real tragedy results from paying high rents. In practically every other sphere wages have kept up with prices but certainly not in rents. Most families which are paying rent are paying one-third of their take-home pay in rent and no family budget can cope with this. 
Much more welfare housing should be available. If the past governments, State and Federal, had set their sights on the provision of welfare housing in their long terms in office we might now be able to hold our heads up as some of the Scandanavian countries can and say that we can provide housing for those who cannot afford to provide it for themselves and we can provide it at a rent they can afford to pay. The provision of housing needs planning, thought and understanding. One needs to know the problems. One needs to see the suffering and the misery caused by inadequate housing. One needs to care about the people and their problems. We have to face our problems in Australia and overcome our past apathy and dedicate our efforts to caring for those who need help. 
I reject the idea that has been put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that people have to learn to stand on their own  2  feet and provide for themselves. It may be news to the Opposition but many people just cannot do this. I sincerely endorse the desire of most people to own their own homes but for many it is just not possible and for many it is just not practical. The families which because of their jobs have to move regularly, rent their homes because it is more practical. As well, many older people who move from family homes into units or flats prefer to rent. We need to provide a diversity of welfare housing to suit all age groups and all aspects of living. Of course families do better in houses where there is a garden for the children to play in and marriages fare better when the family is adequately housed. Inadequate housing causes stress on marriages. We, as representatives of the Australian electorate should maintain our concentration on making welfare housing available. It will be a great contribution to the quality of life for our constituents. I commend the Minister and the Bill to the House. 
-Will the Minister for Administrative Services and Leader of the House inform the Parliament why debate on matters of public importance and certain other matters is being curtailed? 
