My question is directed to the Minister for Labour. Some weeks ago in Perth the Minister stated that his Department would be investigating the allocation of unemployment relief grants through local government, based on the principle of the local initiative program introduced by the Canadian Government in 1971. Can the Minister inform the House, firstly, whether authorities outside capital cities, such as the Hunter District Water Board, will be eligible for such relief grants; secondly, whether any pollution projects and extension of sewerage schemes will qualify as projects suitable for such grants; and, thirdly, what progress has been made with the examination of the proposed programs? 
 Mr Speaker,  I congratulate you on your attainment of the office of  Speaker  in this, the 28th Parliament of Australia. I have noticed that you are enjoying the responsibilities of your high office. I. express the hope that both you and the  Chairman  of Committees,  Mr Scholes,  will long enjoy the responsibilities of your respective offices, exercising that skill and impartiality that are already evident to members on both sides of the House. 1 should like also to congratulate the other honourable members new to this Parliament who have made their maiden speeches. I think the Parliament will be the better for their presence. I certainly agree with one of the earlier speakers who said that the new members would contribute to the standard of debates in this place. I thank the electors of Shortland for the confidence that they have shown in me by sending me, with a resounding majority, to represent them in the Federal Parliament. 
My predecessor,  Mr Charles  Griffiths, who represented the electorate of Shortland from its formation in 1949 until his recent retirement, established an enviable record of service to the electorate, particularly in the field of social services, even though it was rumoured by certain officers of the then Department of Social Services that Charlie Griffiths had his own version of the Social Services Act and how it ought to be interpreted.  His  objective always was to render ease and aid to the under-privileged, those suffering hardship, the aged and the young. He won the respect and gratitude of his constituents for his untiring efforts on their behalf in his 23 years of service in this place. I pay tribute to those efforts. It is my privilege to succeed Charles Griffiths as the representative of the electorate of Shortland in this Parliament. 
The electorate of Shortland, with about 55,000 electors and 90,000 people, covers a wide spectrum of activities and occupations and takes in some of the most rapidly developing areas in New South Wales. Its boundaries adjoin those of the Federal electorates of Hunter, Robertson and Newcastle and it contains portions of the State electorates of Wallsend, Wyong, Charlestown and Lake Macquarie. It runs south from Newcastle to Swansea and around the northern foreshores of Lake Macquarie almost to Toronto. It embraces a portion of the Newcastle City Council boundaries and a large part of the area of the Lake Macquarie Shire Council. 
Lake Macquarie is one of the finest salt water lakes in Australia, with an area of 105 square miles. It is a major recreational asset to the vast Hunter region. Its waters yield all kinds of seafoods to those who are patient. 1 am led to believe that there is a number of such patient gentlemen on both sides of the House. The foreshores of the lake are a mecca for campers and holidaymakers from everywhere. The lake took its name during the governorship of Lachlan Macquarie, in the period 1810 to 1821. In 1821 Captain John Bingie of Newcastle joined a walking tour to Lake Macquarie in the company of 100 Aborigines. He later wrote of his visit in these terms: 
The whole surrounding countryside and lake were serene and still: solitude reigned, no tree disturbed and no trace of white man's civilisation ... all is in its natural state. 
This description was penned in 1821. 
Shortland contains some of the oldest developed sections of Newcastle and some of the newest and fastest growing sections of the area. With over 2,000 New South Wales Housing Commission homes spread over 13 suburbs in the electorate, there are still almost 2,000 families waiting for Housing Commission homes and facing a minimum wait for them of 2 years. Because close suitable land has been tied up by land speculators the New South Wales Housing Commission is forced further and further afield in its search for suitable land, economically priced, on which to construct further Housing Commission homes. The result is that people seeking Housing Commission accommodation, who cannot afford to purchase other homes - those in the low income brackets who can least afford to pay - are forced to live the greatest distance from their place of employment and so carry a double burden. They must bear the burden of low income and the burden of higher travelling expense to and from work. 

 Major industrial activities in the electorate include underground coal mining, fishing, tourism, sand-mining, steel fabricating and chemical manufactures. A large part of the work force is employed at steel industries in the adjoining electorates of Newcastle and Hunter for which the Shortland electorate has become a dormitory. 1 have tried to describe to the House something of the composition of my electorate I have mentioned also the condition of the area in its virgin state. I now present some of the problems facing my constituents - problems which have developed under Liberal Party-Country Party State and Federal governments. Shortland, like other electorates in what has become known locally as the northern area, has been caught in the scissors of neglect of a Federal Liberal PartyCountry Party Government and a State Liberal Party-Country Party Government. Because the northern area consistently returns Labor State and Federal representatives the region, in my opinion, has been deliberately neglected by successive Liberal Party-Country Party governments. This Government will change that. Poor public transport, higher fares and infrequent services are the order of the day. In fact fares are so high that it is common to see young school leavers who are looking for work hitch-hiking along the road because they cannot afford the bus fare to travel to and from industry or their place of employment. 
It is common also for young people who have just started work and who are earning something like $22 to $23 a week to hitch-hike to and from their place of employment because the fares cost anything from $4.50 to $5.50 a week. They find the best way to save money is to hitch-hike and not pay fares.  Major roads  in the electorate are congested and there is little prospect of early improvement.  Major areas  of the electorate are without sewerage. Ratepayers reel under the continuing burden of ever-increasing council and water rates, which are a legacy of the previous Government. Another legacy of the previous Federal Government is the large number of young people in the Shortland electorate who are out of work. 
Separate figures for unemployment in the Shortland electorate are not available as they are included in the Newcastle employment district. The ratio of unemployed females to unfilled vacancies in the Newcastle employment district is something like 5 times the State figure. Similarly, in the Newcastle employment district the ratio of unemployed males to unfilled vacancies is something like  2i  times the State figure. I know that these matters are also common to other electorates which have suffered as a result of what we can only term 23 years of Liberal-Country Party stagnation. Housing Commission areas have been constructed with scant regard to recreational and cultural needs. In fact at Gateshead, which is one of the major Housing Commission areas in the Shortland electorate, not even a public hall is available to meet the needs of several thousand residents or in which to conduct a function. 1 have noted the comments that have been made by previous speakers, particularly from other States, on the difficulties faced by local government bodies in their electorates. As an alderman of the Newcastle City Council for the past 4£ years I have seen at close hand the difficulties that have arisen as a result of local government being deprived of the assistance and encouragement that it ought to have been receiving from State and Federal governments of the day. I am heartened by the provisions mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech, the recognition by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and this Government of the importance of local government in our system of democracy. It is to the credit of the Prime Minister that for some years he has constantly projected the value of local government. I am convinced that it was the recognition of the role of local government by the Australian Labor Party and our willingness to accept a degree of responsibility for its burdens that materially assisted in bringing us to this side of the House. That people are sensitive to the injustices and inequalities of local government is evidenced by the fact that, in New South Wales 5 of the 7 newcomers to this chamber as a result of the elections held on 2nd December 1972 are sitting councillors or aldermen. Clearly they have been sent here to help correct the injustices and inequalities of the present local government system. It is clear from the Governor-General's Speech that this Government will play a very strong hand in helping to correct those injustices. 
I am firmly convinced that the Liberal-Country Party Government of New South Wales has deliberately followed a course of downgrading local government. It began with a decision of the New South Wales Government in 1968 to alter the method of voting for local government from the proportional system to the multipreferential system, at the same time abolishing compulsory voting at local, government elections. The reason given was lack of interest by the voters. Figures of 25 per cent and 30 per cent of non-voters were cited. The terms of the Electoral Act in relation to local government elections were not being enforced. The burden of this was being transferred to councils and naturally there was a reluctance on the part of aldermen and councillors to proceed with it. It ought rightfully to have been enforced by the State Electoral Commissioner. In 1971 under the optional voting system the turnout of voters in local government elections in some areas of New South Wales was as low as 18 per cent. I think that is the evidence that one looks for in the positive downgrading of interest in local government and local activities, particularly by the people at large. 
In line with this the New South Wales Government removed from office without just cause, without consideration and without prior notice, the elected representatives of the Hunter District Water Board and replaced them with ministerial appointees. The practice of replacing elected representatives with ministerial appointees has been followed by &lt;&lt;*ner authorities. I think it is fair to say that when we hear complaints from the other side of the 
House about jobs for the boys it is very clear to the public at large who created this precedent. In my opinion it certainly does not exist on this side of the House, but it certainly exists in New South Wales. The tragic thing about replacing elected representatives with ministerial appointees is that one takes away from the decision making body the involvement of the public, the right of the people to express their views in the arguments that Iv.'.ve to be decided. In this day and age th: provision of sewerage services to homes &lt;ind the proper disposal of effluent is a basic essential hygiene service. In the electorate of Shortland alone there are 2 major and 2 minor sewerage schemes for which cost estimate^ total approximately $7m. The suburbs involved have been settled in some cases for 70 years and yet they still have the primitive sanitary pan services. Some have septic systems. 
Because of a decision by Lake Macquarie Shire Council, acting in its wisdom, when new homes are built now and in the future expensive - in some cases up to $2,000 - septic transpiration or pumpout systems have to be installed where sewerage is not available. The cost of these systems is an onerous burden on the home buyer or builder concerned and will have to be duplicated when sewerage services are eventually supplied. I will be watching in the life of this Government to see that Shortland receives its fair share of Federal funds for local government and for an extension of sewerage services in the Shortland electorate. 1 have related to the House the need for $7m to implement essential sewerage services. What happens to the effluent from the services presently operating? At Burwood beach, which is in the electorate of my colleague the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  the outflow of sewerage from the city of Newcastle for which only a screening process is provided, emits from a short pipe which is just off the beach. 
Unfortunately, for the Shortland electorate, the effluent of the Newcastle electorate is disposed of south along the Burwood beach. This is the major flow of effluent to the sea, but only at Burwood beach is there a screen treatment. In the case of Belmont beach there is no treatment whatever; there is a direct discharge of sewage at one of the main beaches in the northern region. These conditions must not be allowed to continue. The estimated cost of providing a proper treat ment works at Belmont beach is Si 2m and at Burwood Beach $15m. I described earlier to the House the idyllic conditions that existed at Lake Macquarie in 1821 before the white man's civilisation came. In 1973, to the best of my knowledge, there are 19 sewerage and surcharge outlets into this lake. Clearly this state of affairs cannot be allowed to continue. Funds must be made available, not only to provide the essential hygiene service of sewerage but also to protect the waters and environment of the lake itself. To this end local citizens have banded together into a voluntary organisation which they have called the Lake Macquarie National Park Trust with the aim of ensuring in association with local government that the waters of the lake and its foreshores are protected for the benefit of posterity. What greater growth has there been in the community in recent years than th.it of an interest in the environment? 
At last among the people of Australia there is a stirring to protect the quality of the environment, a stirring to protect the quality of the heritage which has been passed down to them. Nowhere in New South Wales has the fight been stronger and fiercer than in the case of the much vaunted attempt to construct a highway - motorway 23 - through Blackbutt Reserve at the northern end of the Shortland electorate. Blackbutt is a priceless reserve of over 400 acres in the Newcastle end of the electorate, a jewel of a natural reserve in the midst of an industrial city. So strong has been the opposition to the routing of highways through this and other reserves that last week in staid old Newcastle there was virtually blood in the streets when people in their efforts to prevent partial destruction of Birdwood Park for the construction of a major highway, barebanded tried to stop a bulldozer of the Newcastle City Council demolishing trees. The allegiance of these conservationists and environmentalists knows no political boundaries. It is a new grouping, a spontaneous coming together of persons interested in preserving the beauty that nature has given to our people. 
The manner in which these people appear to have been treated leaves much to be desired on the part of the Council, and it is my belief that serious injury to persons was avoided more by mischance than by good management. More and more, government at all levels will have to reassess its values on parks, public and natural reserves before it proceeds to carve off sections for the construction of roads and highways. One cannot help holding the belief that within government structures there has long been a view that pinching pieces of parks and natural reserves for highway construction is the most economic course for so-called progress. It is the responsibility of this Parliament to change that. Parks and reserves have an extremely high community value and wherever possible should be preserved and not desecrated. People no longer are prepared to sit back and take what is dished out to them in the name of progress. Conservationists and environmentalists are fast becoming one of the most militant sections of the community. 
I would like to commend to the House the Speech of the Governor-General, particularly that section relating to amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act and the recognition by the majority of Australians that people of 18 years of age have reached maturity and should be entitled to a say in the selection of their representatives in Parliament. If people of 18 years of age are responsible enough to be sent to war and to die, allegedly in a fight to retain their nationhood, then they are mature and old enough to have a say in the selection of their government. The 700,000 young voters presently in the 18 years age group no doubt will have a marked influence on the coming elections. I look forward with eagerness to the proposed amendments to the Electoral Act. I know there is certain uneasiness on the other side of this House and in certain corners of it about what the amendments may contain but I will commend them when they are introduced to the Parliament and commend to the House the recognition of the young people. The Governor-General in his Speech laid out a clear blueprint for a program of legislation that will restore this nation to a course of progress in the interests of the many and of the needy, not the few. I can do no more than emphasise the following words from the Governor-General's Speech:   . . the nature of recent events in our region, the opportunities and responsibilities of the national Government in these times of great change all combine to make the Twenty-eighth Parliament one of the most momentous in Australian history. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Is the Minister aware that anticompetitive practices such as discriminatory dealing and refusal to supply goods are widespread in industry? In particular, is the Minister aware of complaints made by  Mr John  Watts, proprietor of Hunter Wholesaler Confectionery of Hamilton, New South Wales, that the RowntreeHoadley group has refused to supply  Mr Watts'  business with a wide range of goods? Will the Minister have  Mr Watts'  complaint investigated? Is it the Government's intention in the proposed strengthened restrictive trade practices legislation to control anti-competitive practices such as discriminatory dealing and refusal to supply goods? 
This evening I want to bring before the House some matters relating to food price increases and certain practices that exist in the food retailing industry at the present time. We have heard for many years from the Opposition, the former Government, that price increases are always the result of wage increases, that demands for wage increases result in further price increases, and that there is really only one reason for a price increase and that is a wage increase. 
We know that your memories are short and your minds befuddled, but 1 accept your comment. The situation is that there are many reasons for price increases within the food retailing industry which have no relationship whatsoever to costs, wage structures or wage increases. Over the past 23 years of Liberal-Country Party economic mismanagement the worker of this country has seen a steady eroding of the real purchasing power of his wage. Some price increases are caused by the fluctuations in world market prices and in the international supply and demand situation. Cost increases can occur as a result of these fluctuations and as a result of increases in the cost of raw materials, which the honourable gentlemen opposite are presently benefiting from in the field of meat prices, wool prices and honey prices. However, other price increases are not caused by wage demands or wage increases. 
The larger and more insidious area is that in which large scale price increases are made without justification, without the appearance of those seeking the increase before a tribunal and without reference to any public authority or to public opinion. I refer to unfair trade practices, sharp trade practices and restrictive trade practices which currently prevail in commerce in this country and particularly, a» I said earlier, in the food industry. Over the last 23 years we have seen a steady progression in Australia towards a condition of oligopoly in the food industry, both in the manufacturing and retailing of food. We have seen the gradual elimination of the little man, noi only from the retailing but also from the manufacturing and wholesale fields. In fact, from all areas of activity in the industry there has been an elimination of the little man. It has been very hard to understand why this has happened over the past 23 years, bearing in mind that the interests of commerce ought to have been the interests of the then LiberalCountry Party Government. We have seen the gradual takeover of Australian food industries by mammoth overseas corporations and multinational corporations, and the crushing of the smaller man, the smaller retailer. The wiping out of the interests of the small man has helped to remove the competition that ought to exist in the economy and in the community to provide a check not only on prices but on services as well. 
I will not go into detail this evening about the companies and commodities concerned. I reserve that for a later occasion, lt is sufficient to say at this stage that most of the Australian food manufacturers and food retailers are presently foreign owned. I defy any member of this Parliament to get up in the morning and traverse the course of a natural day without, as the result of eating or drinking, sending some profit content out of this country. Yesterday in this House 1 directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  a question regarding the refusal of a British-owned and controlled company to supply a confectioner in my electorate with confectionery, of all things. The confectioner has been in operation for many years and is a man who serves the little people. He is the in-between man, not a gigantic retailer, not a gigantic merchandiser. 
Tonight I want to mention another practice that forces on the consumer price increases without any regard to cost, market demand or any semblance of competition. The practice of chain stores and the major retailers is to demand from manufacturers promotional subsidies which over a year run into hundreds of thousands of dollars in the case of some of the larger retailers. This is a situation in which major retailers can virtually extort from a manufacturer several hundred dollars a week for the right to have his product located in a particular position in the retail store. This cost has to be borne by the manufacturer. In some cases a quantity of products is supplied to the retailer by the manufacturer at a specially reduced price, even in some cases at below cost, in order to maintain the national image of the product. The special price at which these goods are supplied is such that an independent wholesaler, let alone a retailer purchasing through a wholesaler, cannot even compete on the open market. The result is that, of a quantity of goods purchased by the retailer, some are fed on to the market, some are fed out to the consumer and some are held back to be sold at a much higher price at a later stage. Consequently the manufacturer does not derive any benefit. 
The cost of this subsidy and of this lower price at which the products are supplied to the major retailer has to be borne by the manufacturer over the whole range of his production so that the price of every unit of his production carries some content for the cost of this promotion. That promotion cost which is borne by the manufacturer as a hidden cost that he cannot justify to the public is passed on to all consumers. This means that that segment of the retailing industry which manages to buy on promotion gets the benefit of a cost which is borne by that sec tion of the industry which does not participate in the sharing of this promotion  01  receive any benefit from a lower cost. This method of major retailers holding manufacturers to ransom has meant the breaking down of the manufacturers' approach to the retail industry. These retailers can virtually tell the manufacturers to market on the retailers' terms or the product will not he marketed at all. At the same time the major retailer is supplied at a price which is in many cases lower than that available to the legitimate wholesalers whose function it is to supply smaller retailers. Again it is the public which has to pay the price of all this. 
The practice I have outlined is one which I hope will be among the first things to he looked at by the prices justification tribunal when it comes into operation and I hope it will be closely examined as well by the Joint Standing Committee on Prices. This is a practice in which only the large retailers and marketers of products can participate. This Government has a clear mandate and responsibility to bring into operation anti-restrictive trade practices legislation and along with it a prices justification tribunal. The Australian consumers have a responsibility to organise themselves and to start to act in a manner by which they can combat price increases. There has been some reflection of that attitude in the United States of America in the last week where, there has been a strong reaction to the tremendous price of meat. I heard that as a result sales had fallen by 70 per cent. I think it was in New York that this occurred. Food is one commodity that people cannot do without. They have to buy some kind of food whether it is the cheaper chicken or the dearer meat but they cannot exist without it. They can defer the purchase of other products. In this way the oligopoly in the food industry has as much power as, or greater power than, an oligopoly in a non-food industry has. 
I conclude on this note. Whilst this situation has developed over the past 23 years, 10 years ago in South Australia the then Liberal Premier,  Sir Thomas  Playford, introduced into the South Australian Parliament a Bill called, as I recall it, the Prices Bill 1963 which forced retailers offering products for sale at a price to have, on their premises reasonable quantities of that product. In addition to the last practice I mentioned, major retailers advertise extensively products for sale at a price which must attract people into their stores. When the consumers arrive as early as 8.50 or 9 a.m. on the day the product is advertised for sale there is very little of the product available, if any at all. As long ago as 10 years  Sir Thomas  Playford wrote into that Act a requirement that reasonable quantities of the product had to be available for sale. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. Did  His  Royal Highness Prince Philip recently visit the sand mining operations in the Myall Lakes region of New South Wales? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a Press release issued by the Leader of the Opposition in which he appears to have espoused the cause of unionists employed by a sand mining company in the Myall Lakes area of New South Wales? Has he stated that Commonwealth powers will be used to prevent sand mining operations which have been approved or may be approved in the future? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Has his attention been drawn to the number of disputed telephone accounts in the Newcastle telephone district involving subscriber trunk dialling charges? Is he aware that in the present listings of the Newcastle telephone directory telephone numbers that attract STD charges are not distinguished from local call charge numbers, with the result that direct calls made from Newcastle to places such as Paterson, Cessnock, Dungog and Tea Gardens appear to be local calls but are in fact STD charges. Will he arrange for such numbers to be clearly distinguished from local call charge numbers in the next issue of the Newcastle telephone directory? Will he also arrange for the section on STD charges in the present directory to be enlarged and emphasised so that subscribers to telephone services will be clearly aware of the calls that involve STD charges? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. Is it a fact that Japanese nationals visiting Australia can obtain 90-day visas, that they can bring into Australia goods that are duty free which, 1 understand, in cases are often resold and that they can take employment while they are here? Is it a fact that Australian nationals visiting Japan receive only a 60-day visa, that they cannot take employment while they are in Japan and that if they wish to stay longer than 60 days they have to seek renewal of their visa? Are steps being taken to remedy this imbalance of rights which presently operates to the disadvantage of Australian citizens? If so, when is it expected that such changes will be made? 
After listening to speakers from the Opposition side I think that any reasonable and tolerant Australian could only be astonished and amazed by some of the contributions they have made. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  spoke of the proud record of the United Kingdom-Australia relationship, but the present immigration policy of the United Kingdom towards Australia certainly is not a proud one. That is something I will mention a little later. The other matter that the honourable member mentioned was the desire of the Australian Government to abolish the right of appeal to the Privy Council. It is interesting to note that the same opinion is held by a former Prime Minister of this nation, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  so at least that is one matter on which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the previous Prime Minister are in concert. The comment that was made about the attainment of citizenship on the cheap is a remark which I feel many persons in this country presently who were not bom here could only regard as a slur. There is no suggestion or intimation that citizenship can be gained along those lines, and that kind of comment can do nothing but hurt and harm to all of those people contemplating Australian citizenship. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  spoke of the special preferment and special relationship existing between the United Kingdom and this country. I would like to read to the House an extract from the immigration policy of the United Kingdom presented in the House of Commons on 25th January by the Secretary of State for the Home Department,  Mr Robert  Carr, which is reported at page 654 of the House of Commons Hansard. After talking about the interdependence of Commonwealth countries, the United Kingdom, the colonies and immigration policy he said: 
With this in mind, it is all the more important to reduce the immigration of citizens of other countries - both Commonwealth and non-Commonwealth - to the inescapable minimum. 
He went on to say: 
The Government wish to make clear, in particular to employers in this country, that work permits under the 1971 Act will be issued very sparingly indeed and that this stringency will apply to Commonwealth and non-Commonwealth countries alike. 
I do not know where the special preferment and the special relationship to which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred fits into that statement.  Mr Carr  went on to mention that the maximum period of a work permit that is allowed on entry into the United Kingdom is 5 years. We have heard of this preferment or alleged entitlement given by the United Kingdom to Australian citizens, but in fact under the present immigration laws of the United Kingdom Australian citizens do not have any automatic entitlement to United Kingdom citizenship. The United Kingdom does not use the term 'migrant' as we use it here. It refers to a person going to the United Kingdom for the purpose of settlement, and a person going to the United Kingdom for the purpose of settlement must have a job waiting for him in the United Kingdom, his prospective employer must apply to the Department  of  Employment in London for a permit on the applicant's behalf, and the time that elapses from the time application is made by the employer to the time of issue of permit is approximately 7 weeks. The maximum period for a work permit is 5 years. The initial permit is for only one year, and thereafter a renewal has to be sought. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition commented on the reduced number of people entering Australia for the purpose of settlement. I draw his attention to the fact that despite a lower intake of persons into this country in the current year, the decision to stay has been taken by a much greater number of people. We can say simply that a lot fewer people are coming to Australia but certainly a lot more are deciding to stay. I venture to say that the decision to stay, many of which have been made in recent weeks, has been made as a result of the announcement by this Government of an enlightened approach to the whole subject of Australian citizenship. We are doing away with the inequalities and the discrimination that have existed for far too many years in this country. On the economics side, the decision of a lot more people to remain in Australia after having arrived here means a great saving to this country in terms  Of  the cost of immigration, housing and assimilation. 
I mentioned earlier a statement on immigration policy by the Secretary of State for the Home Department in the United Kingdom speaking on behalf of the United Kingdom Government. I would like now to quote from a speech in the House of Commons by a member of the Opposition on 21st February, a few weeks ago. On page 618 of the House of Commons Hansard he is reported as having said: 
I have always adopted the view that we should exercise a control policy which is seen to be fair. The best way would be to base it on work opportunity here. I do not believe in the kith and kin idea. It can go as far as one generation. However, I do not see why a rogue from Australia should have absolute free entry and unfettered right of settlement here while we are obliged under the rules to turn down worthy people from other parts of the world who are likely to make a great contribution to our economy and society. 
We have heard what the Government in the United Kingdom says and what the Opposition in the United Kingdom thinks. 
I would think so. 1 thank the Minister for his comment. It seems a reasonable conclusion to draw that there is a unanimity of opinion in the United Kingdom that the door has to be closed to Australians. We have to comply with the same kind of restrictions on entry as do members of any other Commonwealth of Nations country. I have been unable to get figures from the sources available here in Australia on the number of Australians whose applications for United Kingdom citizenship in recent years have been rejected. They will become available, but I think it would be reasonably accurate to say that the number is in excess of several hundred. It is expected that the number will be in excess of 1,000 in the current year. I say all these things to show that the image that the Opposition is trying to create - of preferment and compatibility, of the supposed exchange of rights between the United Kingdom and the Australian Governments - is false. It does not exist, it has not existed for a long time. The present situation in the United Kingdom is that Australia is a long way down the list. 
Since the United Kingdom entered the European Economic Community the people of all the EEC nations have had freedom of entry into the United Kingdom. They can go in any time they wish. They do not need a work permit. They have right of entry to the country. They have the right to seek work. They have the right to take their families with them. They have the right to select their place of residence anywhere they wish in the United Kingdom. That does not apply to Australians, but apparently the Opposition says there is some sort of preferment for Australians. I would very much like to be made aware of it. We have also heard mention of renunciation - of people having to renounce their allegiance to their country of origin. The act of renunciation is meaningless. It is distressing to persons who have come to this country to make it their permanent home and who have relatives left in their country of origin. It does not really mean anything to the Australian citizens here. It is made all the more meaningless by the fact that dual nationality exists in some countries and that the country of origin sees fit not to recognise a renunciation. 
It is interesting to look at all the countries that do not require renunciation. In New Zealand, which would be a sister country to Australia in terms of immigration policy, renunciation is not required. Renunciation is not required in Canada, the United Kingdom, Sweden or Italy. The only comparable country at the moment that requires a person taking a citizenship to make an oath or a statement of renunciation of his country of origin is the United States of America. This act is distasteful and unpleasant to persons who used to be required to make it, as is evidenced by the fact that there has been an increase in the number of applicants for Australian citizenship since the proposed amendments to the Act were announced. When one gets to know people who have come from other countries and one understands their feelings, one also comes to understand the discomfort caused to some of them by having to renounce their country of origin. For all practicality, here in Australia it makes no difference to their relationship with the Australian government or with other Australian citizens. 
The other matter I would like to mention is the citizenship ceremony, the emphasis on it in the Bill and the importance that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  has been giving to it. lt is a most important day and a most important event in the lives of all our new Australian citizens when they take their citizenship oath. Probably in many cases it is their first contact with people in public office in Australia. I think it is a responsibility and a duty of all members of this House to participate in these ceremonies whenever they can and to help to make them important and memorable to the candidates taking their citizenship. I believe that the amendments proposed to the Act will assist materially in making those persons who were not born here and who want to avail themselves of Australian citizenship more readily and more strongly able to feel that they are going to become members of the Austraiian family and that they are able to identify with all other Australians. The amendments will strengthen the projection of Australia's national identity, and this nation will become identified more and more as Australia, the island in the South Pacific and not the third island of the United Kingdom or the fifty-first State of the United States of America. 
Has the attention of the Minister for the Environment and Conservation been drawn to the high capital cost to industry of the installation of effective air pollution control equipment? Does he agree that there is an urgent need in medium to small industries for the installation of new plant that is non-pollutant in operation? Will he inform the House of what steps have been taken to encourage the installation of such new plant? Will he take up with the Treasurer the possibility of accelerated depreciation allowances and/or special grants to hasten the introduction of new plant in pollutant industries? 
Yesterday the Newcastle 'Morning Herald' carried a headline extending over 4 columns, 'Blackbutt Road Favoured - Bombshell Vote in Council'. The Newcastle City Council voted to allow the construction of a 6-lane highway through the Blackbutt Reserve - a beautiful reserve of natural bushland occupying more than 400 acres close to the inner area of Newcastle. The mover of the motion to approve this development said: 
We are obliged to do that which we consider to be in the best interests of this city and its people. 
He added further that many workers would be able to save 20 minutes going to and from work because of the free traffic flow. This event - an event which is becoming common these days in our cities - is symbolic of the decline in the environmental quality of the major cities of Australia. We have a narrowminded State authority with a brief to build roads only and not to consider any aspects of the environmental or social impact of the development of roads. We have a local council, of which a number think that the building of such a road will really solve traffic congestion. We all know that it will simply generate more urban expansion and more motor cars and thus more traffic congestion leading to yet more pressure to build more roads and so on around the more roads, more suburbs, more cars, more roads spiral. 
Apparently the Council was influenced by fear of losing Department of Main Roads funds to some other city or municipality in New South Wales, thus it acted in haste after recommending the previous week to let the matter stand over for 4 months pending conferences between the New South Wales Environmental and Local Government Departments and various conservation groups, the New South Wales Department of Main Roads, the Newcastle City Council and residents likely to be affected. All this was pushed aside by the juggernaut of progress. There was no further discussion of alternative means of moving people, no further discussion with affected people and no appreciation of the fact that the highway approach to city transport problems is failing everywhere in the world and that our love affair with the motor car in the city might be ending. There was no further discusion of the value of a nature reserve to people. It is always the park which loses out to the ever-expanding paving of our cities. No doubt people again will try barehanded to stop the bulldozers to save their reserve from a development which would enable the so-called majority to exercise the right to drive cars through the reserve to work, as happened in a similar incident in Newcastle recently. At this time we recognise that every time somebody enforces his right to drive his car through the city the rights of all others are diminished a little. This is what Garrett Hardin called 'the tragedy of the commons' - more noise, fewer parks, dirtier air and less money for public transport because of the pressure for more roads helped by agencies such as the National Roads and Motorists Association which originally were set up to protect people when motorists were a minority. So the city loses a little more character and individuality. 
Everywhere the city Is in crisis. The Australian Government, the New South Wales Government and the local council can act to prevent a lot of problems by the allocation of more money for public transport and the development of better planning of human settlement. However, the real issue is one of individual rights - whether we will continue to let the demands made on the urban system by the motor car continue to ride rough-shod over the lives of people and the quality of the human settlement of which they are a part. The Australian Government must give the lead here to get good planning from bureaucracies, such as the Department of Main Roads, by the provision of adequate environmental impact statements; to ensure that the State Government of New South Wales does likewise; and by giving more money to the States under section 96 of the Constitution rather than by general loan funds to ensure that environmentally and socially equitable and sensible transport systems are developed in our cities. We cannot let the free ride of the motor car and road crush all the livability out of our cities. If we do nothing, the combined pressures of motor car manufacturers, oil companies, main roads departments, citizen organisations such as the NRMA and some parts of local councils will continue bit by bit to tear to shreds any human surroundings which still persist in our cities and make them places where living is more than just existing. 
I know that in recent weeks organisations interested in protecting the environment have contacted the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  regarding the need for a proper environmental impact study to be made of the proposed motorway through Blackbutt Reserve. Alternative road systems, not alternative routes, need to be looked at. Origin and destination surveys need to be undertaken. A complete regional transport survey of the whole area should be undertaken and a fresh look should be had at all factors involved. It is not simply a matter of pinching a bit more parkland in the name of so-called progress. The gun should not be held at the heads of councils by State governments threatening to allocate funds elsewhere to force the councils to agree with recommendations of the New South Wales Department of Main Roads. That, I understand, is what the New South Wales Minister for Local Government did a few weeks ago. For 7 years people of all shades of political opinion, of no particular ideology and no particular station, have gradually come together into a public movement to preserve Blackbutt Reserve from the road builders. I ask the Minister for the Environment and Conservation to take a good look at the representations he has received concerning this beautiful reserve. I ask him to consider the potential loss to future citizens of the Newcastle region if the Blackbutt Reserve is to be despoiled, as despoiled it will be if the motorway proceeds. I ask him to consider referring the whole subject of Blackbutt Reserve and proposed Motorway 23 to the joint parliamentary committee on environment and conservation which is to be formed shortly. I want to see Blackbutt Reserve preserved intact for the benefit of generations to come. 1 turn now to another matter - the potential of the Hunter region as a growth centre, an existing growth centre. The population of the area is looking to the Government to raise the quality of living to a standard commensurate with the riches taken out of the region. With the unencumbered sites at Kooragang, wilh deep water access and the extensive areas available throughout the hinterland, those people responsible for planning for the State and Federal governments must come to appreciate that this region demands examination in the most positive terms. Much has been heard in recent times from governments of all colours and complexions about proposed new growth centres. If the premise is accepted that the purpose of growth centres is to stop the drift to the cities, to provide a better living environment, and to prevent despoliation of the countryside, the Hunter region is a prime zone which meets these requirements. 
The 5 local government areas surrounding the port of Newcastle in a radius of 30 miles could well be the nucleus of a Hunter regional growth zone. Already those 5 councils act in co-operation in a number of activities such as abattoirs, libraries, planning and local government associations. They act very successfully. Industrial leaders, planners and the people of the countryside and of the Newcastle and Hunter region generally are looking to the Australian Government for long term guidelines for the Newcastle region as a region, not just Newcastle as a city. The heavy public and private investment in capital equipment and plant and in terms of the skilled work force ought to be properly and efficiently utilised before looking elsewhere for other development. 
It was encouraging to honourable members on this side of the House to hear the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  confirm the worsening financial situation of local government. But he failed to mention that the present difficulties which local government faces and which this Bill aims to assist in remedying gradually developed during 23 years of determined avoidance of local government by a Commonwealth government of which he was a member. It was encouraging also to hear him express doubts about the present principles upon which local government revenue is raised. But why did not the Government of the day, of which he was a member, do something about the situation? After all, as a member of previous Governments for over 15 years, as a Minister for over 10 years and as a  Deputy  Prime Minister surely he was one of those who would have been in a position to assist or project the cause of local government. Or has his sudden awareness of local government developed only since he has been in Opposition? Maybe he has suddenly learnt about it from the Democratic Labor Party. Maybe this is another side benefit from the shot-gun wedding. 
This legislation will do much to assist in the removal of some of the inequalities between regions and between local government areas in much the same manner as the Grants Commission has operated in the past in removing some of the inequalities between States of the Commonwealth. Those of us on this side of the House who have come here with a background of service in local government know from practical experience the constant financial dilemma that faces local government; that is, the increasing demand for services, the continuing increase in the cost of providing existing services and the limited access to revenue under which councils and local authorities have to operate. 
In many local councils in New South Wales the burden on that select group, the ratepayers, has reached the limit. Despite a lengthy royal commission during 1965-66 into the problems of local government in New South Wales, very little has been done apart from the establishment of the New South Wales Local Government Assistance Fund which disburses general purpose and specific purpose grants, to implement the recommendations of the royal commission. Rate revenue based on property values only, without taking into account the principle of the ability of the ratepayer to pay is onerous and inequitable. Again, because of the system of allowing rates as a tax deduction, those on higher incomes receive a greater tax concession from rate payments than those on lower incomes. 
Giving local government access to the Grants Commission for general purpose grants will do much to relieve the inequalities among ratepayers and will give the third level of government access to the Federal purse so that all taxpayers will be making a contribution towards the cost of providing local government services, and not just ratepayers. Clause 6 of the Bill defines the purposes for which grants may be made to local government - either to a local government body in a region or an approved regional organisation. Any definition of the method by which local government authorities are brought together into regional bodies is bound to find opposition from some member authority or council. In determining the regional groupings I believe the following criteria could well be taken into consideration: The philosophy of common regions for all government administration, community of interest, population distribution, the pattern of communications, topography and climate including river valleys, the distribution of natural resources, the pattern of industrial and commercial development, existing government administrative divisions, capacity to sustain a regional centre and to develop a regional identity, conformity with local government boundaries and accordance with statistical divisions. 
The joining together of local authorities into regional divisions for the purposes of this Act will be an added bonus to local government. It will promote local government thinking into the greater perspective of assessing the needs and inequalities of regions. The decision of this Government to grant local government access to the Grants Commission is the biggest break-through for local government that has been made since Federation. It is an acceptance of a principle that local government associations and shire associations have been fighting for for almost 30 years, the principle that local government should receive a share of the common pool of taxation collected by State and Federal Governments. The associations' case was based on the fact that when the means of financing local government were first established councils were called upon to provide only basic services that related to property and at that time it was fair and reasonable that rates based on property values should provide the source of their funds. In later years, especially since the Second World War, councils have been called upon to provide a whole range of cultural, recreational and community services which benefit all the people and have no relation whatever to property. Because of this, the rates income from property owners should be supplemented by an allocation from the taxes paid by all taxpayers. 
This case was consistently put to Federal and State Governments for many years. It was first recognised in a limited manner by the New South Wales Government in the setting up of the New South Wales Local Government Assistance Fund in 1969. Whilst the intention of this Bill is to provide additional finance to councils or local authorities for general purposes as a topping up or equalising process, work is in hand to enable assistance to be made available under separate legislation for specific purpose grants. 
In the Newcastle region local government is administered by 3 city and 2 shire councils. In addition, the Shortland County Council is responsible on a broader regional basis for the distribution of electricity, whilst the Hunter District Water Board reticulates water and provides sewerage services on a different regional basis again. The 5 councils undertake a wide range of essential services in addition to those directly carried out by the departments of the local government itself. Public works, health and immunisation services, garbage collection and disposal, maintenance of municipal property, and the care of parks and reserves are major items of expenditure. The financial programs of most local authorities are dominated by high works outlays with, in most cases, a continuing rise in total annual spend ing. The improvement of living standards and constantly expanding public needs have resulted in an expansion of local government expenditure which has often exceeded the rate of increase in population. 
The amount of construction of new buildings, additions and alterations in an area is a useful indicator of the growth rate of the area. During the period 1966 to 1971 the aggregate estimated value of building applications to Newcastle City Council increased by 39 per cent. The value of the applications to the Lake Macquarie Shire Council more than doubled and the value of the applications to the Port Stephens Shire Council rose by half during the 4-year period 1966 to 1969. The disparate growth in population is shown by comparing the totals of populations of the councils. During the period 1966 to 1971 the population of Newcastle increased by 1.85 per cent to 145,718, whilst the population of the adjoining Lake Macquarie Shire increased by 13.75 per cent to 122,268. In Cessnock the population rose by 1.76 per cent. The population of the Port Stephens Shire rose by 19.81 per cent and the population of Maitland rose by 8.88 per cent. 
The Newcastle City Council area, for example, is almost fully developed with a strong central business district that provides something like 40 per cent of all rate revenue collected, whilst the Lake Macquarie Shire, an adjoining shire, is a rapidly developing shire spread out over a larger area with major problems of development and connection of suburban centres. It should be made quite clear that grants to local government from the Grants Commission are in no way intended to replace revenue-raising by the local authorities themselves, but they should materially assist in levelling out inequality in access to revenue suffered by the less advantaged councils. If local government is to develop attractively and flexibly it must have financial independence. A case can be established for grants for the provision of services which result in large benefits to those in the areas outside the area in which the money is spent. A case can also be justified for grants that would enable the poorer units of local government to operate at minimum acceptable standards. 
My question, which is directed to the Postmaster-General, concerns telephone rental charges. Having in mind the present concession on telephone rentals allowed to pensioner subscribers which, in the Newcastle region, means that the rentals still amount to about 75c a week, I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Has consideration been given to the total abolition of telephone rentals and the substitution, in lieu of the present system, of a higher charge per call only? Could such a charge be based on a reducing scale according to the number of calls made? If he has not given consideration to such a scheme, will he arrange for a study of it to be made? 
In speaking to Appropriation Bills Nos (5) and (6) 1972-73 now before this House I want, in the short time available to me, to enlarge on remarks I made here a few weeks ago on an adjournment debate in relation to the crystallisation of ownership of the food retailing industry of Australia and the subsequent reduction in competition and market access. Division 140 of the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department shows an additional appropriation for 1972-73 of $49,000 for the Office of the Commissioner of Trade Practices. The pending changes and strengthening of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act are long overdue, and it would seem to me that additional assistance is required in the Attorney-General's Department to expedite the legislation needed. 
This Government has indicated its intention to abandon the restrictive trade practice proposals of the previous Government and to replace them with an improved, modernised version of the Industries Preservation Act embodying an outright prohibition of all horizontal agreements, similar to that which applies to resale price maintenance. Where people suffer as a result of restrictive practices the law would rely on civil remedies to enable them to recover damages. 
Since World War II there has been  a  number of changes in the food retailing industry - some desirable, some undesirable. Available statistics show that annual turnover in the food retailing industry has grown from $ 1.600m in 1956-57 to $2,040m in 1961-62 to $3, 273m in 1968-69. This represents  a  food retail turnover per head of $105, $192 and $272 for each of the respective years. These figures reveal  a  greater than 100 per cent growth in turnover during the year 1956- 57 to 1968-69 yet during this period the number of establishments selling these goods decreased from 138,500 to 57,000 outlets. For the year 1970-71 the 5 largest firms were responsible for 18 per cent of turnover whilst the 10 largest firms were responsible for 29 per cent of total sales in Australia. 
Several reasons have been advanced for the reduction in the number of outlets. The attractiveness of economies of size - the grouping together of outlets into regional centres with a form of one stop shopping - airconditioning, provision of childminding centres and parking facilities are benefits that the smaller trader has found much harder to match. The so-catted free delivery offered by large chains is however a dubious benefit to the housewife for which varying fees are charged. Another reason that has limited the entry of new food retailers has been the growing capital investment required. We have seen  a  conversion of the food retailing industry from a labour intensive one to  a  capital intensive one. The extension of trading hours will Increase the pressure and rate of decline of the smaller man and ultimately the range and quality of service available to the consumer. 
The reduction in the number of retail food outlets, the growth of gigantic chains and the massive entry of overseas participation in the food industry brought about a number of practices that operate against the interests of the consumer but in a kind of selfaccelerating, self-preserving kind of way for the major companies involved. We should remember that as long ago as 1968-69 expenditure on food was $272 per head or in excess of $5 per week per man, woman and child in Australia. 
Price rings and special deals between manufacturers and the giant retailers placed the smaller retailer and wholesaler in a position where they could not compete. In fact, even today the Attorney-General's Department is inquiring into a number of instances of preferential treatment where some long-standing wholesalers can buy products more cheaply from a giant chain store than they can from the manufacturer because of preferential pricing policy by the manufacturer or special deals that have been made by the manufacturer with the giant retailer concerned. This practice, in effect, forces out other retailers and wholesalers and thousands have gone to the wall in the period mentioned. 
What of the so called specials and cheaper prices offered the consumer by the large retailer? In almost any mid-week newspaper one can read of specials 'Under Cost - Limit 2' or some similar number. However, ask any special shoppers how many times they have gone to a store, particularly the giant chains, on the morning the limit specials were advertised, even at the time the store opened for business, only to be told the store had sold out or that there may be some more tomorrow or another day. This practice has been further refined now to what is called 'hour specials' in which case a special price is applicable for a period of one hour, between, say, 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. only. 
What happens in many cases is that people read these advertisements, particularly the needy, the pensioners, the battlers who h;-.-e to scrimp and save every cent under the legacy of inflation we have inherited from tie previous Government, and they travel distances to get to the particular store only to  be  told: 'We sold out'. In a branch of one giant chain store the practice is followed sometimes of putting on a small display of the limit specials in an out of the way section of the store but putting on a very large display of the product in a multiple pack at the normal shelf price in a well trafficked section of the store. This is deliberate deception on the part of the retailer concerned and I hope that persons who have experienced this kind of thing will write in to my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  in his capacity as  Chairman  of the Joint Parliamentary Standing Committee on Prices, telling him the circumstances. 
The theory of the practice of limit selling is that people are attracted into the store with the carrot of limit under cost specials to expose them to any array of other goods, and as I said earlier the consumers most receptive to this practice are the needy. At the same time other smaller retailers in the industry cannot compete against these supposedly lower prices. The practice of limit specialling is an evil one, a deliberate deception practised in the main by the giant chains in some States of Australia to gain a greater share of the Australian food market - and it has worked. I hope that legislation can be brought into this Parliament to prevent its continuation. 
As far back as 12 November 1963 the  Hon. Sir Thomas  Playford, then Premier and Treasurer of the Liberal Government of South Australia, brought in the. Prices Act (Amendment) Bill to the South Australian Parliament to prohibit limit specialling. On page 1590 of 12 November 1963 South Australian Assembly Hansard he said: 
First there is the practice of offering goods for sale by retail, usually at or below cost with a limit on the number of goods which may be bought at a certain price. 
He went on to say: 
Secondly, there is the practice of advertising goods for sale which are not either possessed by the trader at all or possessed in much smaller numbers than implied in the advertisement. 
He further mentioned the placing of misleading advertisements either by description or implication. He described how pressure was brought to bear on manufacturers and wholesalers by traders demanding greater discounts or lower prices than customary by threatening either not to sell the manufacturer's product or locating it in a poor selling position in the store. Referring to the legislation he said that it was a familiar form of legislation in America. It had been adopted in the. United States and had resulted in small traders not being placed in an unfair trading position as compared with that of the larger business.. 
The comment made by  Sir Thomas  Playford almost 10 years ago is as valid today as when he made it, with the exception of South Australia. I believe that if a trader offers a product for sale at a price he should be required to make available to a prospective purchaser whatever quantity of the product he has to sell and for which the purchaser can pay in legal tender. 
I support the Bills before the House. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to recently published reports on air pollution and fallout in Australia and the possible effect on the health of Australians? Is he able to inform the House of those regions in Australia in which regular measurements are taken of solid particulate fallout and the concentration of sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide and other gases in the atmosphere? Does the quantity of very fine or sub-micron solid particulates in suspension in the atmosphere in the presence of sulphur dioxide bear a relationship to the incidence of upper respiratory tract infections in human beings? 
I ask the Minister for Immigration whether his attention has been drawn to reports that the great train robber, Ronald Biggs, left Australia with a forged passport made available by an English criminal in Australia. Is this report true? If so, will the Minister explain what action has been taken in relation to this passport? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. Has the Minister seen allegations that a young Australian was refused entry to the Royal Australian Navy because he was not born in Australia, having come here at the age of two? I ask: Are such actions contrary to the policy of the Australian Government to banish discrimination? If so, will the Minister investigate the allegations? 
It was a change to listen to the quiet presentation of the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  which contrasted with the continual cacophony of cackling and caterwauling that we have heard from the cockies' corner in recent weeks. I seem to have heard some of his words before. The honourable member spoke about combating inflation, about the real value of money and about putting value back into money and purchasing power. I recall when I was first out of high school in 1949 that those were the words being put forward as the aims of the organisation led by  Sir Robert  Menzies, as he is now. It seems strange that the newly arrived member is now proposing the same kind of things that were proposed in 1949. Whom does the honourable member think he is fooling? If he wants to do something about prices why has he not appealed to his colleague in the State sphere.  Sir Robert  Askin, -who has the power but not the inclination? He has the power to do something about fixing and controlling prices but he certainly does not want the responsibility that that action would entail. 
I thought that the honourable member might have taken the opportunity here to issue a challenge to his State colleague to take up his power to institute price control in New South Wales. This Government will bring more real purchasing power to the mass of Australians. The Budget presented to this House by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on 21 August is an historic document. It represents the first part of a 3 part program of a reappraisal of Australia's needs and priorities, a move towards improving the lot of the lesser endowed, the underprivileged, the deprived and the needy at the expense - for want of a better term - of the 'fat cats' of the Australian community. For too long the lesser privileged citizens of this nation have had to bear an inequitable share of the cost of providing the necessary facilities and services of today's society. For too long the economic structure of this nation has had to operate under a hesitant, stop-start system of financial management which was influenced in the main by how best the interests of the supporters of the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government could be served. 
As a newcomer to this place I have found it quite strange to watch the antics of honourable members opposite, particularly members of the Australian Country Party who protesteth most strongly at a rearrangement of financial priorities which will bring social and economic justice to millions of Australians. They scream at being asked to share an equitable portion of the cost of our national services, at having to pay the same level of charges as urban users of telephones and postal facilities. At a time when the rural sector of the economy is enjoying record prices for most of its products, the 'rural rump' who have ridden on the back of their weak, divisive Liberal Party colleagues for almost a quarter of a century, wail like jackals because now they are being asked to stand on their own 2 feet. For too long the industrial sector of this nation has had to carry the burden of sectional non-directive subsidisation of rural interests and the propping up of some obviously uneconomic primary industry activities. But they have not the political courage to come out and oppose the positive benefits that this Budget will bring to the majority of Australians. Will they express their opposition to the massive increase in funds to be made available for the education of Australian youth? Will they oppose the increases in age, invalid and widow pensions and the allowances to repatriation pensioners? 
I thought the honourable member said that they were not able to. Will they oppose the abolition of the means test for pensions for persons 75 years of age and oyer? What we have heard to date from honourable members opposite has been simply an exercise in hypocrisy. In 1972 the Australian Labor Party presented to the electors of Australia well thought out and well expounded policies for the development of this country in the best interests of Australia and Australians as a whole and this Government was given a clear mandate to implement those policies. Despite the bleatings of honourable members opposite, those policies will be implemented. 
One of the greatest areas of neglect of the previous governments of the past 23 years has been in the sphere of local government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in presenting the policy speech of the Australian Labor Party at Blacktown on 13 November 1972, said: 
We will give local government full access to the Loan Council and Grants Commission - not only because the burdens borne by taxpayers as ratepayers must be reduced, but because the inequalities between regions must be attacked by the national Government acting with and through local government. 
Already major steps to fulfil that promise have been taken. Over the years since World War II, there had been a consistent expansion in the needs of local government authorities accompanied by a steadfast refusal of the Federal Government of the day to assist in meeting those needs. The development of the concept of regionalisation in local government is one of the major advances made by this Government. A basic drawback of local government has been the multiplicity of local authorities of varying sizes in terms' of area, population and income. The provision of financial assistance to councils on the basis of regional submissions presented by recognised regional bodies will progressively uplift the quality of services available to ratepayers in the. less privileged areas and help to equalise rate levels. In Australia we have approximately 900 local government authorities. In 1969-70 their total expenditure, excluding the operating expenses of business undertakings, amounted to about $720m. This was expended as follows: Approximately 63 per cent to capital items, 26 per cent to current goods and services, and 11 per cent to interest on debt. [Quorum formed] I thank the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  for his courtesy in bringing an audience into the chamber. I hope that there will not be a continuation of the cacophony from cockies' corner. The source of the funds used was: Local taxes and fines, 53 per cent; operating surpluses of business undertakings before deducting depreciation, 15 per cent; State government grants, 13 per cent; increased indebtedness, 19 per cent. 
Since World War II we have seen in Australia a massive increase in local government debt. It is only when its growth is compared with the level of State and Australian Government debt that the magnitude of the increase becomes apparent. 
In the period 1948-49 to 1970 Australian government debt was virtually eliminated: Debt of the States increased four times to $3, 885m whilst local government debt increased tenfold to $1,6 19m equivalent to a debt of $132 for each Australian. This Government is to be congratulated on its recognition of the problems and difficulties of local government in Australia and the speed with which it is acting to assist in overcoming those problems and difficulties. The whole status of local government is being uplifted. It will be taking up its proper role as the third level of government in this nation. Already councils are forming into regional groups in anticipation of recognition on a regional basis. 
I turn now to another matter in the Budget. Among the numerous advances in the field of health care and social welfare provided for is the amount of $7,675,000 in grants for the school dental scheme in 1973-74. This is in accord with the announcement made earlier this year by the Government of its intention to develop an Australia-wide school dental scheme. In co-operation with the State governments it is anticipated that by 1980 all primary and pre-school children will be covered by the scheme and later it will be extended to provide for all secondary school children under fi 5 years of age. At present it would be unusual to find a child in Australia who did not need some form of dental care. The moneys provided in the Budget will allow for the development of the first stage of a planned program. That will result in a much needed improvement in the dental health of the children of this country, a matter which has hitherto been sadly neglected by previous governments. It is proposed that the present school dental scheme which is operating in several states, will be progressively extended. The service  wai  offer free dental care and treatment to each child at least once a year and dental health education would be provided to ail school children. Treatment will he generally provided at school dental clinics of either fixed or mobile design and the services will be staffed basically by school dental therapists working under the general direction and control of dentists. Already 26 student dental therapists have been sent to New Zealand for training. Whilst the state health authorities will he responsible for the actual implementation and administration of the service, the Australian Government will be responsible for providing overall leadership and coordination of the scheme. 
I think every member of this. House will be aware of the heavy financial impact that befalls the family man should one of his children require dental treatment under present conditions. Indeed, charges for dental services are so high that often much needed preventive dental care is not availed of because of the cost, with the result that when ultimately the trip to the dentist has to be taken, permanent damage to teeth has occurred which could have been avoided. Then it becomes a double extraction - an extraction of teeth and an extraction from the patient's pocket to meet what can only often be described as prohibitive charges by dentists. We hope that the Australian school dental service will save a lot of children's teeth as well as a lot of taxpayers' dollars, because at the present level of dental charges many parents just cannot afford to send their children to the dentist for preventive dental care. 
Included in the vote of $1,675,000 for the New South Wales Government is an amount of just over $lm to provide for the construction of a training school for dental therapists in the Sydney suburb of Westmead. This school, which will train 30 therapists a year is expected to take its first - batch of students in September, 1974. In addition to this approval has been granted for the commencement of the planning of a further 2 training schools in New South Wales, one to be located at Sylvania and the other at Shellharbour. I am particularly pleased that temporary facilities for a dental therapists training school to be located at Royal Newcastle Hospital have been approved. The cost of alterations to existing facilities and provision of necessary equipment is in the vicinity of $80,000 and it is expected that the first intake of students for the 2-year course will be in January 1974. 
This is great news to the people of the Newcastle region, irrespective of the electorate in which they reside, and the dental therapists trained at this school will do much to alleviate the tremendous need that exists in the region at present. 
Earlier today we heard the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  talking about promises not fulfilled, but no party in government has had a more scandalous record of unfulfilled promises than have the Liberal and Country Parties. He mentioned the many things that had been done by the governments of which he had been a member, but what about the greatest unfulfilled promise of all - the 1949 promise of abolition of the means test for pension purposes? What happened to that promise? What did he do about it when he was in a position to do something? He probably did what he did today - talked and rambled and avoided concerning himself with the 1949 promise to assist the aged people. It has taken 24 years and a change in government to see the first steps taken towards a complete abolition of the means test. This Government is honouring its promises, but even it, fast moving and capable as it is, cannot in a short 39 weeks overcome the 23 years of shortcomings, of selective neglect and stopstart government that this country has experienced. At last this country is being managed in a manner that will benefit the great majority of Australian citizens. 
People have been misled by the false cry that there is something different about country people. If there is the Country Party has made it so and convinced itself that it is so by its own deeds as partners in a coalition government of obsolescence. As I said earlier, we have heard all the caterwauling and cacophony opposite, particularly about the proposed equalisation of telephone rental charges and postal charges. But I ask: Why should metropolitan telephone subscribers have to pay more for the same service than their country cousins do. Already there is a distortion in telephone charges that operates against urban clients of the telephone service. The Opposition would like to see even greater distortion in postal charges in favour of rural subscribers. The fallacious argument put forward by the Country Party that rural telephone subscribers have less access to other subscribers for a local call than do metropolitan subscribers will not stand examination. If there were a case to subsidise rural telephone services then it should have been financed by all taxpayers from Consolidated Revenue when the Opposition was in government, not by other telephone subscribers. 
What greater proof does one need of the ineptitude and inadequacy of 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government than simply to listen to the plaintive cries of those who now sit in Opposition. In a period of record prices for primary products and after 23 years of their own administration it would appear from their comments that the rural sector of Australian industry is about to collapse, so whom are they fooling? The metropolitan customers of the Post Office are very happy that charges are being equalised and that they will enjoy the privilege of paying the same rates as country subscribers. The Budget is a blueprint for real growth, equity and justice for the people of Australia. I commend it to the House. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation. Having in mind the divisive effects of expressways on neighbourhoods and the impact of new major road systems on the overall environment, I ask: In the preparation of the proposed Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement for the coming 5-year period 1974-79, has provision been made for an assessment of the social and economic impact on the environment of new major road systems to be built in that period and will provision be made for the Australian Government to participate in such assessments? 
We have heard continually this afternoon the proposition being put forward by honourable members opposite that there is some line of demarcation between the urban areas of Australia and the rural areas. We heard the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  say that this Government is aligned against the country people. This continual attitude of creating divisiveness in order to start an argument amongst the people of Australia that there is a distinction between city and urban dwellers and rural dwellers is false. Considering that a Liberal-Country Party coalition was in office for 23 years and that the Liberal Party is based upon an urban electorate, one would have thought that there would have been a welding together of the needs of the country, the needs of the city and the need for development and equality. 
Reference was made to the attitude of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  who is the Minister for Health, towards the increase in petrol prices. I would hazard a guess that the honourable member for Capricornia expressed his view on this matter in the Cabinet and no doubt he, like most Australians, realised that whilst city dwellers might receive their petrol a little more cheaply, they certainly pay a lot more for other things, in particular rents. There was also mention of the drift to the city; that people were leaving the country. Who steered this nation while people drifted away from the country? It is all very well to talk about the present situation, but honourable members opposite created it; they created the conditions under which people had to leave their rural holdings. They had to leave the country townships and seek employment in the cities. 
Earlier the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  referred to one of his own relatives in the country who in his trade is receiving $30 to $40 a week less than his counterpart receives in the city. But what did honourable members opposite do about that situation? They did nothing about it because it seems that over the past quarter of a century the government of the time was more interested in seeing that the needs and interests of its supporters in the multi-national food corporations, oil corporations and any other kind of corporation which was prepared to put in money to the Government were provided for, and it was not really and honestly interested in the average rural individual who lived on his farm and who in some instances was being pushed off his farm because of increases in land values and rents as a result of the operations of the Pitt Street and Collins Street farmers. The previous Government was not interested in the rural people; it was more interested in where the money lay. I think that it is a completely hyprocritical attitude on the part of members of the Country Party to try to lay at the feet of this Government the responsibility for the conditions that now exist in the country. 
I must support the remarks of the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  some weeks ago when we were talking about the position in the country. He had to draw to the attention of this Parliament the fact that in some cases it would have been cheaper for the PostmasterGeneral's Department to buy the farm than to put a telephone on the farm. What greater indictment can there be than that of the economic policy of the government of the time? Money was given away willynilly to whoever asked for it or whoever wanted it without any thought being given to the economic viability of spending that money. That did not matter as long as honourable members opposite got the votes. With that money they bought votes in the right area. 
 I am sure that the Postmaster-General would be happy to oblige the honourable member; he is a very obliging gentleman. Obviously, members of the Country Party have not looked at some of the Budget papers which indicate that telephone services which provide for less than a 1,000-line exchange cost $9,000. We heard the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  talk about the obvious sectional tendency of the national Government. What greater and more perfect definition can there be of his own Government?  His  own Party is a sectional Party and his own Government was directed towards a particular sectional policy without regard, as I said earlier, to the economic objectives involved. The previous Government was not interested in whether the money being spent on behalf of all Australians - not just the people in the rural areas, the 14 per cent of the population who do not live in urban areas - was being spent in a manner which gave true worth and true value. We have heard the usual tirade about the present Government being opposed to the country people. People who say this probably forget that many of us come from country backgrounds, 'that our grandparents and earlier relatives were from the country. The whole tirade, the whole cry of suspicion and assumption that the whole petroleum subsidy scheme is to be phased out- 
 Perhaps one day honourable members opposite can get down to dealing with the facts. They should take full cognisance of the facts that existed in the books prior to 1972 for these are what they put there themselves. The effect of this Bill will be to increase the cost of petrol in some areas by a maximum of 1.7c per gallon. The Government will no longer be prepared to subsidise a differential of Se a gallon. 
 The matter before the House is the 1.7c and I am quite confident that in most major cities the increased cost as a result of this legislation will be much less than 1.7c. But we did not hear anybody on the other side of the House go to the trouble of digging up those figures. All we heard about was discrimination. That has become the catchcry of the Country Party in particular. But we saw evidence of discrimination in the House last week when the Australian Citizenship Bill was before the House. We heard nonsense about the renunciation of oaths and so on. In reality that was simply an attempt to discriminate between those people who arrived in this country for settlement and those who were born here. We heard the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  a little earlier talking about the needs of the area. It is interesting to note on page 1677 of Hansard of 19 May 196S one of the comments that he made. He said: 
For many years it has been the policy of the Country Party to bring about uniform prices for petrol and other fuels that are used in outback areas. I sincerely hope that that will occur in the not too distant future. 
Now, 8 years later, he did not make any mention of that this evening when discussing this Bill. He did not bring to the notice of the Parliament that progress has been made in 8 years and that the subsidy has remained at 3.3c a gallon and that the price of petrol and the margins of resellers has been left to the decision and moods of the international oil companies. 
Again this is in line with the policy that the previous Government followed of support for the oil companies. It did not matter much about anything else. During its long period of government no step, even having in mind the remark of the honourable member for Canning in 1965, was taken towards the regularisation of retailers' margins. No step was taken to ensure that the prices being charged for petrol were justifiable. What the subsidy has done in effect over those years has been to operate as a disincentive to the oil companies to seek more efficient means of transporting petrol from the seaboard to the outback areas or areas away from the coast. While they were getting the increased costs underwritten by the national government there was no need for them to worry about what increase in costs occurred or whether the method of transportation they used was the most efficient available because the bill was being picked up by all Australian taxpayers anyway. We do not know whether the increased costs that have occurred in transportation, as shown by the oil companies, were justified. 
The whole scheme has operated as a disincentive to the oil companies as well as being of assistance in particular areas to honourable members from the Country Party. Yesterday afternoon we had the instance in this Parliament of the Leader of the Country Party being most vigorous and vehement in his opposition to the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill seeking a referendum on prices. Here this afternoon we heard comments from the other side of the Parliament on why we should hold back prices, why this cost should not be added to others facing the primary producer. Yet yesterday afternoon when honourable members opposite had the opportunity to do something about all costs, not just petrol and fuel, they were most vigorous in their opposition to any such action. Whose leg are they really trying to pull? They are saying on one hand that they want costs kept down for the primary producer but on the other hand they were adamant yesterday that costs have a free rein and that sellers should be able to charge any price that they wish. This year has seen record prices for almost every primary product and every farm product. 
Only a few days ago we learnt that a major ingredient in the latest rise in the consumer price index has been the increases in the prices of meat, potatoes and onions. Whilst these products are bringing record prices and have been major influences in the rise in the consumer price index, members of the Country Party and members of the Liberal Party are united in total opposition to any proposition that prices should be fixed. If the position in the rural industries is such that after 23 years of their Government and their economic direction an increase of 1.7c per gallon in the cost of petrol is to be overpowering to those industries, I think it is time we considered whether those industries, or some of them, are viable or not. It is certainly time for examination of the whole picture in the country. I simply repeat that this Government is not opposed to the interests of the rural people, but it is in favour of seeing that all people in the rural areas receive a better deal - not just those sections that are operated by multi-national companies. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the lurid and somewhat garnish displays of political propaganda opposing the proposed national health scheme now being displayed in the waiting rooms of some doctors' surgeries in the Newcastle area? Does he agree that such exhibits can have an intimidatory and distressing impact on sick people attending such surgeries for treatment? Will he repeat his public invitation to members of the medical profession to confer with him on any aspect of the proposed national health scheme in order to dispel once and for all any suggestion of a lack of desire on his part to give full consideration to the genuine interests of doctors when the changeover occurs? 
The subject I wish to bring to the notice of the House in this grievance debate is air pollution control. It is coincidental that today's 'Sydney Morning Herald' carried a heading on page 11: Air pollution in major New South Wales cities too high'. That heading arose out of the tabling in the New South Wales Parliament yesterday of the 1972-73 report of the Air Pollution Advisory Committee by the Minister for Health, the Honourable H. Jago. The report states that the major cities of New South Wales had average air pollution levels exceeding those already offered by the World Health Organisation as long term goals. 
In a time of doomsday prophets it has become customary to expect a continuous deterioration in the quality of our environment. Consequently when one is able to report that there is somewhere at least where a few certain aspects of the environment have improved there are many cynics who would comment that such a thing is unlikely, if not impossible. One famous example of such an improvement is the air of London and the quality of the water in the River Thames. Another example is the air of the city of Pittsburgh, United States of America. One example in Australia is the air of my own home city of Newcastle. I would like to relate briefly what has been achieved there. It is all the more impressive because it has been a local operation originated by the people of Newcastle and its Council with the support of local industry and with only minimal help from the governments of New South Wales and Australia. At the same time, I emphasise that there is much to be done and that more money must flow from the Australian Government to enable the situation to improve further in Newcastle and to help to arrest the alarming decline in the quality of air in our major cities. 
One section of the new 14 point environment platform of the Australian Labor Party, which was approved at its 1973 Federal Conference at Surfers Paradise, is 'regulate toxic or indestructible materials by the development of standards for ambient air quality, water quality, ocean release of materials and the land disposal of solid and liquid waste and by the development of integrated programs at all levels of government under the leadership of the Australian Government'. The platform item identifies the importance of the development of an adequate monitoring system for air quality in Australia. I will return to that subject in a moment. 
Meanwhile, what is Newcastle's record? Newcastle in 1947 when our air pollution monitoring began under the supervision of the Smoke Abatement Panel of Newcastle City Council was a dirty and grimy city. Many people from other parts of Australia think that it still is. It is a reputation that Newcastle does not now deserve. I am informed that Newcastle is now the cleanest industrial city in the world. In 1947 the monthly average dust deposit was 94 tons per square mile. By 1972 it was down to 12.15 tons per square mile. The smoke haze in 1957 at City Hall was 2.6 haze units per 1,000 linear feet. In 1971 the figure had dropped to 0.9 haze units per 1,000 linear feet. These are just a few figures on the subject but behind them is a story of dedication and co-operation on restricted and tight budgets. 
The story commenced 26 years ago when Newcastle City Council decided to establish its pioneer Smoke Abatement Advisory Panel and invited experts to join in its deliberations. This action was many years ahead of that proposed by any other city in Australia. In fact, the work carried out by Newcastle City Council has been detailed in its publication 'Air Pollution Monitoring, Newcastle 1951-1971' which has become a most useful reference work on air pollution control. 
At this stage I pay tribute to the dedication of the staff and officers of the Newcastle City Council who have been associated with the activities of its Health Division in the long struggle to improve the quality of air in Newcastle. In many ways, the story of the improvement of air pollution control in Newcastle symbolises many of our real environmental problems. Progress will be made only by hard work and by the use of good technology. Progress in overcoming such problems will not be glamorous. The manifestation of environmental problems might grab the headlines whereas the slow work to rectify them seldom gains attention. 
Having shown the improvement in air quality that has taken place in the past 26 years in Newcastle, I turn now to one of the few major sources of visual pollution remaining on the Newcastle scene. I refer to the ferro alloy plant operated by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Port Waratah. Whilst I commend the company on its activities in regard to antipollution control measures taken in respect of other plant, the history of the operation of the ferro alloy plant and the latitude extended by the New South Wales Minister for Health,  Mr Jago,  to that company through the Clean Air Branch must cause concern. This plant, constructed in 1941, emits thousands of tons of fine metallic dust into the air over Newcastle every year and has the permission of the New South Wales Department of Health to do so. Repeatedly the company has been granted a 'temporary' exemption from the provisions of the Clean Air Act 1961. Without those exemptions it would face prosecution and possible daily fines for each day that it continues to operate the plant. 
Having in mind that the New South Wales Clean Air Act came into operation 12 years ago and that polluting industries were given a 5-year period in which to comply with its provisions, since 1969 the Newcastle City Council has sought definitive action from the BHP Co. and the New South Wales Department of Health to control the emissions of the plant. Following further requests from the Council through 1971 and 1972, in the course of which the technological difficulties faced by the company in obtaining suitable air pollution control equipment were pointed out, advice was received from the company in July 1972 that it had been granted an extension of time until 30 September 1972 to submit firm plans to the Minister to fit fume collection equipment to the ferro alloy plant to control the emissions. 
However, a further exemption was granted and, by letter of 24 July 1973, the then acting Minister for Environmental Control in New South Wales,  Mr Lewis,  advised that he had been informed by the Minister for Health,  Mr Jago,  that the company had informed the Health Commission that it would not install air pollution control equipment on the obsolete plant and that, if required to do so, it would close the ferro alloy plant. He went on to point out the technical difficulties associated with conversion of the existing plant and stated that the company would be allowed to continue to operate the plant until June 1974. On receipt of this advice, the Council resolved on 7 August 1973 to inform the Minister for Health:  . . that the report be received and the Minister for Health be advised that the Council strongly disapproves of his allowing the plant to continue to pollute without control until June 1974, having regard to the time which has elapsed since the promulgation of the Clean Air Act in 1961. 
The Minister has ignored Council's requests and has virtually given BHP unlimited permission to continue use of the present polluting ferro alloy plant. 
Whilst I appreciate that there have been difficult technical problems in designing effective emission control equipment and that BHP has expended large sums in installation of other anti-pollution equipment at its Newcastle plant generally, the continued operation of the ferro alloy plant is a major source of visual pollution in Newcastle. Proper control of its emissions would result in a further dramatic improvement in the air quality of the city. I believe that the installation of control equipment is a matter of urgency for the sake of the citizens of Newcastle and that  Mr Jago  should take a much more vigorous line with the company. The longer the installation is delayed, the greater the savings in private cost to the company but the greater the social cost to the people of the area in terms of poorer visibility and air pollution and possible illness. After all, 32 years of operation for any plant is a long time. The company ought not to be adopting the attitude that 'if we do not get further exemptions we will close the plant down and about 70 men will be displaced'. Surely the City of Newcastle has waited and suffered long enough? 
Having referred to the problems associated with the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. ferro alloy plant and the additional improvements that would follow effective control of its emissions, I emphasise again the progress which has been made in the reduction of air pollution in Newcastle since 1947. It is one of the cleanest heavy industry centres in the world and is certainly much cleaner than comparable centres in Australia. It does not deserve the reputation of being a dirty, smoke-affected city. I challenge any such criticism. 
Elsewhere in Australia other problems of air pollution continue to exist. Despite a regulation in some States which allows only the use of industrial fuel oils containing a maximum of 1 per cent sulphur, air borne sulphur dioxide and sulphur trioxide still represent a potential danger to people. If they continue to increase, they might cause many respiratory diseases. My attention was drawn to a Press report this week which detailed the imposition of a $1,000 fine on a Geelong company for the emission of a high quantity of sulphur dioxide on a day on which there was a temperature inversion layer over the area and which resulted in 14 children and 3 adults being affected. 
We solve some problems, but other related problems remain or even get worse. That is the message of most of our environmental problems. We need to be vigilant and to think in a total planning framework if we are to deal with such complex and interconnected problems. Above all, we must recognise the very limits of the natural systems, the air sheds and water sheds which we are using to our advantage. We must plan and locate our industries recognising these limits. This will require a great deal of basic research and good monitoring. If we do not, we will lose all. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report which appeared in the Newcastle Morning Herald' of 13 October 1973 titled 'Freeway report secret', which related to a statement by the New South Wales Minister for Local Government and Highways,  Sir Charles  Cutler, accusing the Minister of withholding a report of the Bureau of Roads on the continued construction of freeways in capital cities? ls it a fact that the report was tabled in this House on 22 August 1973? Has the Minister noted that  Sir Charles  Cutler indicated that he is in agreement with the views expressed in the report of the Bureau of Roads? Does the Minister agree that this accusation by  Sir Charles  is another example of the deliberate misrepresentations that some State Ministers pursue in an attempt to prop up their outdated approach to vital environmental matters? 
I do not think anybody regards seriously the comments of the previous  speaker.  One must be impressed by the continual defence of the life assurance funds and the reference to overseas corporations. The legislation provides for the raising of funds by several different methods through different divisions of the National Investment Fund. Because the contributions to these different divisions will be tax deductible up to the limit of $1,200, as is provided for in the present deduction for insurance and superannuation premiums, that will be an added attraction for the individual who wants a secure form of saving to invest in the Fund. The small savers will have an opportunity to participate in the ownership and development of Australian resources and industries. 
I want to know why honourable members of the Opposition are opposed to an opportunity being extended to the ordinary Australian to participate in the ownership of their own resources. That is the opportunity the National Investment Fund will provide to all Australians. Are Australians to be denied the right to share in the benefits of their own heritage in the safe way? What is the motive behind the Opposition's attitude? I know that much mention has been made in recent days, both in the Press and in this House, of donations by foreign controlled companies to campaign funds of Opposition parties. Judging from the reaction of certain honourable members opposite there would appear to be some basis for believing that foreign funds have been received by Opposition parties. I do not know the answer to that question, but I am sure that the people of Australia would like to know. 
Australians want to participate in the development of their own nation and to share in the benefits of that development. Why should they not have that opportunity? It is their right as Australians. In the few minutes available to me I want to draw the attention of the House and of the people of Australia to the inadequacy of the present financial structure of this country and to the loss of confidence that has developed in the whole financial sphere of activity in Australia. One has only to glance at the comments made at the election of the  Chairman  and Council of the Sydney Stock Exchange in recent days. The newly elected  Chairman  of the Exchange said that it was time to convince the investing public that the Stock Exchange had to take real strides to restore the confidence of the small investor in the operation of the Stock Exchange, and that many questionable mining stocks had been brought before the people of Australia. In fact each time one of these mining ventures or companies fail, generally it is the small man who gets burnt. 'The big man has the know; he has the nod and he gets out in time. It is the small investor whose fingers are burnt. We heard in this House only a matter of weeks ago- 
I address my question to the Minister for Secondary Industry and by way of preface I point out that the previous Minister for Second Industry presented to this House on 12 April 1973 the report of the Committee on Small Businesses. The previous Minister told the House that the Government was anxious to attend to the problems of small businesses as they exist in Australia and to provide assistance where it might be necessary. Can the Minster now tell us what steps have been taken in this regard? Will the Government be putting forward any firm proposals directed to the needs of small businesses in Australia? 
It is indeed an honour to follow the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe).  One cannot help but think of Rip van Winkle when it seems that the honourable member has suddenly made a new discovery, that of air pollution. One wonders why, the honourable member coming from an area just north of an industrial city like Newcastle, on the occasions he must have passed through it he did not notice pollution before. It is strange that he did not raise the matter when he was a member of a party which was in office for so many years and which did nothing about the problem. 
Of course they are different. Recently in this House I referred to the 1972- 73 report of the Air Pollution Advisory Committee tabled in the New South Wales Parliament. Tonight while debating the estimates for the Department of Environment and Conservation I wish to say something about the effect of cities and urban development on the quality of the air. The report stated that the level of air pollution in New South Wales cities was too high and had not decreased as much as was desired. The report stated that the prime reason for the situation was the increasing population, with accompanying increases in cars, industrial activity and incineration. The major cities in New South Wales had average pollution levels exceeding those recently offered by the World Health Organisation as long term goals. To combat this the Committee has steadily increased the stringency of the action against polluters. Mention was made of prosecutions being recommended against 9 companies last year but I would be interested to know how many prosecutions were actually launched in New South Wales. I understand that there were none. 
A very interesting report appeared in the United States 'New and World Report' of September 1973 which outlined the impact that cities, roads and buildings have on the degree of pollution and air quality. It showed that in the USA it has been found that cities are generally hotter than nearby rural regions, that it is not as windy in most cities, which means that air pollution is not dissipated as fast and heat tends to linger longer in the atmosphere. Urban air was found to have about 100 times more dust particles and 5 to 25 times as much foreign gaseous pollution as that in rural regions. Urban centres and small towns were described as heat islands that twisted the climate. The buildings were heat holders and the question was asked: What lies behind all this? For one thing, the first step man takes when building a town or city is to replace trees and grass with asphalt, concrete and brick. These building blocks wreak havoc on natural weather patterns. 
Concrete and asphalt absorb heat like giant storage batteries by day and radiate the pentup warmth at night. On a summer day, surface temperatures of a asphalt parking lot will reach 115 degrees Farenheit. while the grass that surrounds the lot will register a maximum of 90 degrees. Even several hours after sunset there still will be found a difference of 14 degrees in temperature. Big buildings, as well as well as streets, store heat. Not only do these structures radiate shafts of hot air into the atmosphere, but also they break up wind currents on the ground. This leaves the urban centre with stagnant air to breathe and extreme turbulence, as aeroplane passengers can testify, in the nearby upper atmosphere. Studies show that cities experience higher temperatures, greater cloud cover and more pollution during the 5-day work week than on weekends. It rains, for example, 24 per cent more often Monday to Friday than on weekends. This week day - weekend weather difference is caused by the thousands of automobiles, air conditioners and industrial plants that heat and pollute city air only during the week.  Dr Helmut  E. Landsberg of the University of Maryland's Institute of Fluid Dynamics and 
Applied Mathemathics has been reported as saying: 
Most spectacular among the effects of the city upon the atmosopheric environment are those caused by air pollution . . . This smoke pall affects an area SO times that of the built-up regions. And these values are probably conservative. 

 Dr Landsberg, who is described as one of the nation's leading authorities on city induced weather, explains that this added heat load becomes particularly burdensome during natural hot spells and is reflected in higher mortality figures for city dwellers. The effect is probably hardest on persons in the higher age groups with impaired heart and circulatory functions. 
The social impact also is that the people in the lower income groups in these inner urban areas who are subject to the poorer quality of air because of financial barriers are unable either to afford an air conditioner or to move from the area. Scientists and engineers have said that in construction of cities, for one thing, trees should never be chopped down when construction work begins. They have said that condensation and air currents created by trees in summer can turn the hottest street into a city oasis. Those are just a few of the points in the article. There is a very strong case for thought and planning to be given in the size, area and height of buildings within city areas and also the very important point that parking areas for motor vehicles in cities ought to be constructed underground rather than having asphalt plains, as we do in the cities. These areas absorb and maintain heat, unlike an area of grass and vegetation. 
It has been interesting to note in the Press during the last few days a report stating Fumes at night are like a fog', according to a Port Kembla resident; a report in the 'Canberra Times' stating that a Geelong company was fined $1,000 for polluting the air; and a report on the opening of a symposium on air quality by Professor Zelman Cowen who spoke of air pollution as an 'abomination - a defeat of man by man himself. 
There are 3 ways to develop proper and effective air pollution control: Firstly, there is the need to establish complete monitoring facilities to determine the status of the air; secondly, guidelines and action programs have to be developed; and thirdly comes the institution of an effective abatement program. No co-ordination on a national basis had been taken until this Government came into office: the previous Government did nothing about it. 
It did nothing about air pollution control. This evening the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  informed the chamber of air pollution as his new discovery. The previous Government left it to the States and to local governments. However, because we have an international responsibility for the protection of the global atmosphere, the Australian Government has in its platform on environment a clause stating that it is the responsibility of the Australian Government to show leadership in co-ordinating measures designed to monitor the level of air pollution and to develop programs to protect the quality of air in Australia. 
The Australian Government has offered to the United Nations Governing Council on Environmental Programs to provide within Australia a baseline monitoring station to measure the baseline levels of air pollution in the world's atmosphere. This station will be one of 10 situated throughout the world. Its basic function will be to give us readings on the quality of the earth's air at those places where the air is purest. We need these stations so that we will have a yardstick with which to measure how polluted the rest of the earth's air is becoming, and particularly the air around our cities. Such measurements will include all those pollutants which are commonly measured, such as sulphur dioxide, sulphur trioxide, oxides of nitrogen, carbon monoxide and dioxide, ozone, hydrocarbons and solid particles. 
Having brought the subject of air pollution before this chamber on a number of occasions in recent months, and coming from a city where I have seen the benefits of the development of a properly controlled program of air pollution and the development of proper programs for abatement, I know what the results are and I know the benefits that can be derived. As recently as last week following my comment on the emissions from a ferroalloy plant I was very pleased to learn that in Newcastle the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd immediately made a public announcement that the plant concerned would cease operation on 30 June next year. To me that was a great victory for the cause of air pollution control in Australia because it was an acceptance by industry at the highest level and an acceptance by our largest Australian company that it has a responsibility to participate in the improvement of the quality of air within Australia. 
The program that has been followed by BHP in other areas of its activities in the Newcastle region, in the development of antipollution control and particularly water pollution control, is something that ought to be looked at by other major manufacturers and other major companies within Australia. I hope that this Government will press on with its stated policy as soon as possible and as soon as the work load enables the progress that is needed to be carried out. 
One cannot but be amazed at the comments that come from members of the Opposition. Irrespective of what members of the Opposition may feel personally, I am completely confident that the majority of Australians want to be recognised as Australians and want Australia to be recognised as the nation of Australia. They do not want to be recognised as another State of the United States of America, as another island of the United Kingdom or as the second island of Taiwan. They want to be recognised as Australians. Certainly after so many years it is time members of the Opposition had enough courage to start developing that kind of attitude rather than projecting the thoughts and opinions of countries across the water. It has been clear in recent weeks that this is the main motive behind their actions. One has only to mention the terrible words foreign donors to Liberal-Country Party funds' to see the look that comes across the faces of members opposite. They may squeal and scream, but one can gauge the reaction. 
There has been no more certain or concrete piece of evidence relating to the change in identity of Australia as Australia than the announcement by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  of the new contract for the sale of wheat to China. It is a 3-year contract and it provides for an annual review of prices. For the first time in Australian history something has been achieved that our wonderful opponents in the Country Party, have sought and wanted for years but which their reactionary attitude to foreign affairs could never let them achieve. One would have thought that in the goodness of their hearts and from a sense of fair play they would have paid some small compliment to the Minister for Overseas Trade and said: 'Yes, we think this is a good contract. We are proud for Australia that it has been achieved.' As a direct result of that contract, some members opposite stand to receive more than any other Australians from the signing of this new contract, from the certainty of sales and from an annual review of prices which will ensure for the product a fair market price which is in accord with the world market price. One would have thought that members opposite would have said something favourable about it but they could not do so because they have too many masters to serve in other places. They cannot rise in their places and put forward a point of view which places Australia first. So far as they are concerned it is donors first and Australia later. As a result of this wheat contract Australian primary producers will have certainty of production and a certain future. One would have thought that members opposite would have adopted a reasonable attitude and congratulated the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and said: 'Yes, this is a good move. We support you. Now what can we do about trying to increase the size of the contract?' Instead of that, they asked: 'What is the price? How much will we get for it?' They were the only comments that came from the corner of the chamber in which members of the Country Party sit - cockies' corner. It is a fact of history that the Australian Labor Party has done more constructive things on a long term basis for the rural man than the Country Party has done by any of its jobbed up, subsidised, propped up schemes. 
I am very sorry if the honourable member for Chisholm has difficulty in relating the results of the overseas activities of the Minister for Foreign Affairs with the achievement of the new wheat contract. I am sorry for him. I will repeat to him what I have said, if he wishes, or send him a copy of Hansard tomorrow morning. Let the reactionaries opposite state what they would change in our foreign policy. Do they want us not to recognise the People's Republic of China now that the contract has been signed? Do they want us to say that we will wipe the contract and go back to not recognising the People's Republic of China but recognising Taiwan? Will they please, for the guidance of all of the people of Australia, at some stage tell us what they want. The people of Australia want to know what honourable members opposite want. 
I also visited Asia recently and passed through some of the countries mentioned by the honourable member for Chisholm and the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  It is very strange that I did not experience the feelings or the expressions that both of them say they experienced. It may be that they had tape recorders in their pockets and that their opinions had been formed before they left Australia. But one would have thought that they would have taken some cognisance. I notice that the honourable member for Warringah is smiling. I smile with him. I recall some of the toasts that were proposed - I admit that it was not he who proposed them, but a member of the Country Party - to 'comrades'. 
The honourable member says that it was not him. I shall not indict him. I say to the members of the Country Party and the members of the Liberal Party who want to do something for Australia: How about having a listen to what the average Australian wants? He wants to be known as an Australian. He does not want to be known as an American or Taiwanese, or whatever label one wants to put on him. 
In conclusion, I want to touch on the visit of  Her  Majesty the Queen to Australia and the cries in this place some weeks ago about her being described as the Queen of Australia. The Queen herself was here last week. I remind honourable members opposite - those reactionaries who have difficulty in mouthing words - that when the debate on her new title took place in this House some weeks ago there were cries of horror from honourable members opposite about the new title, despite the assurances given by supporters of the Government that it was the Queen's own desire that she be known as  Her  Majesty the Queen of Australia. Honourable members opposite, not having heard from or had communication with the United Kingdom for a long time, could not believe that it was  Her  Majesty's desire. I compliment - I am sure all other supporters of the Government do -  Her  Majesty the Queen of Australia on her announcement in this building only last week that it was her desire to be known as the Queen of Australia and that as long ago as 1947 it was the desire of King George VI that he be known as King George VI of Australia. I have reminded honourable members opposite of that in order to help them to understand their history. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
Department of Education 
Proposed expenditure, $145,351,000. 
It is my pleasure in this debate to follow the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  who is affectionately known in this place as  Mr Seventeen  Per Cent. I just want to remind him that the problems that he talks about in his electorate are problems which were inherited by him from the previous Liberal representative for McMillan and that the problems were developed over a period of 23 years of Liberal-Country Party administration. I say in regard to his challenge to the Government to hold an election that it is quite pleasing to see that the Democratic Labor Party in its political wisdom is too astute to fall for the stunt of the hollow challenge of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  to call for a double dissolution. The DLP is too politically astute to be the sacrificial goat in a game for the Country Party. 
Next Monday will see the commencement at Coffs Harbour .of the 1973 New South Wales Local Government Association Conference. Today is an opportune time to bring before the notice of this Parliament and the local government representatives who will be attending the conference, and indeed before all ratepayers in New South Wales, the refusal of the Liberal-Country Party Government of New South Wales, led by  Sir Robert  Askin, to support the proposition of local government representation at the Australian Loan Council. The Australian Government is pledged in the terms of its policy and platform to make local government a genuine partner in our federal system. Direct representation for local government at Loan Council meetings would mean that it would be possible for the Australian Government on request to raise approved loans on behalf of semi-government and local government authorities, thus giving them the advantage of the longer period and lower interest appertaining to loans raised by the Australian Government on behalf of the States. This direct representation would result in considerable savings to local councils and, ultimately, savings in dollars and cents to ratepayers throughout Australia. But in the State of New South Wales the Premier is opposed to giving greater recognition to local government and pursues a course that prohibits an easing of the financial burden on ratepayers in New South Wales. This Government is committed to an objective of assisting and strengthening local government. The New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government is opposed to it. 
It is true that New South Wales was not the only State represented at the meeting of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Premiers in Canberra on 1 1 October 1973 that opposed local government access to the Australian Loan Council. But I single out New South Wales for several reasons. Firstly, the Premier of New South Wales is a man who so loudly cries about the so-called poor deal his State gets from this Government. Secondly, it is he who is the advocate for states' rights. Thirdly, because by his action at the meeting of Heads of Government on 11 October 1973, as Premier of the major State in Australia, he ensured the rejection of the proposals put forward by the Prime Minister to raise the status of local government. This is the man who claims his Government receives unfair treatment from this Government, yet by the parsimonious attitude of his own State Government keeps local government and the ratepayers in a financial straightjacket. 
I want all the ratepayers of New South Wales to understand clearly that the LiberalCountry Party Government of New South Wales stands in the way of local government in that State achieving access to cheaper finance, earlier work programs and accelerated progress. This so-called champion of states' rights -  Sir Robert  Askin - has deliberately suppressed opportunities of local government in his own State and deliberately obstructs a course of action that would assist New South Wales ratepayers. I want all the ratepayers and local government representatives in New South Wales to know what he has done. Local government is being squeezed between the expanding expectations of society and the limits of its resources. Ratepayers are being squeezed between increasing council rates and soaring land valuations. The 'Newcastle Morning Herald' editorial of 11 October 1973 expressed the hopes of all ratepayers in the Hunter region when it said: 

 Mr Whitlam's election speeches, his professed sympathy for local governments' financial difficulties, the direct access of regional groupings to the Grants Commission, and a voice on the Loan Council hold promise of some relief in the future. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has repeatedly stated the need for a reappraisal of the arrangements of the existing Financial Agreement. These arrangements were based on needs of the decade following World War I when the relative roles and responsibilities of the Australian Government, the State governments and local government were vastly different from what they are now. They were not adequate in the past, they are not adequate now and they certainly will not be adequate for the future. 
Over the past 2 decades serious deficiences have developed in the State local sector. This Government has set itself the task of helping remedy those deficiencies. Enlarged allocations in the 1973-74 Budget for education, community health, public housing, sewerage services, land management, urban transport and growth centres evidence our strong beginning on that task. Total allocations to the States in 1973-74 including the State governments' Loan Council programs but excluding unempolyment relief grants are 24 per cent greater than comparable allocations in 1972- 73. 
If local government is to play the greater and more effective role that the people of Australia require it to play, the effective influence local government exercises in relation to the fundamental decision making affecting its activities must be increased. Such an increase will represent a most significant step towards true federalism, true local participation in public affairs and, indeed, true decentralisation of government. This Government secured the representation of local government at the Constitutional Convention. It has authorised the Grants Commission to examine applications for assistance by regional groupings of local councils. Additional members have been appointed to the Commission to enable it to deal with this added responsibility. Under the Australian Assistance Plan, special aid will be made available to local government authorities to enable them more effectively to provide welfare and health services to their communities. 
But let us have a look at the comparison of State and local government borrowing since 1947. In that year, the total debt of local government authorities was SI 40m or about 7 per cent of total State government debt. In June 1971, on preliminary figures provided by the government statistician, the debt had risen to $ 1,730m or almost 15 per cent of estimated total State government debt at that date. In the 24 years local government authorities' debt had increased twelvefold compared with an increase of not quite sixfold in the State government total outstanding debt. Yet after that period of enormous growth in the range and cost of local government responsibilities its voice in the place where the nation's broad public borrowing programs were determined was still as it was at the beginning - that is, nil. 
If the existing Financial Agreement from the 1920s were being drawn up now, local government most certainly would have a say. Under present conditions, local government is left largely to fend for itself and it is no wonder that the costs of borrowing bear so heavily at an increasing rate on their budgets. The picture varies from State to State and as between individual authorities but the fact is that in 1970-71 the overall interest payment by local government authorities was equivalent to about 12 per cent of their revenue. Interest payments plus capital repayments in the same year totalled S 177.5m or about 25 per cent of revenues. If the Australian Government were able to borrow on behalf of local government authorities the servicing costs would be appreciably lower. 
Let me return now to the situation in New South Wales which stagnates under the standstill Government of the Liberal-Country Party coalition in that State. The Newcastle 'Sun' of 15 October 1973 carried a feature article headed 'Local Government Must Fight for its Say'. It commenced as follows: 
As as professed champion of State rights, New South Wales Premier  Sir Robert  Askin could have  a  difficult task justifying his stand against local government admission to the Australian Loan Council. 
He is reported as having led the fight against the Prime Minister's proposals for local government representation because he did not like the prospect of local government representatives being in competition with their Premiers for loan funds. What he was really saying was that he wanted local government to remain a dependent child of the States and that councils should be kept in a Statetightened straight-jacket - this from a man who claims that the Australian Government is trying to shackle the States. What hypocrisy is this? But then, with the New South Wales Government, a multiplicity of standards is commonplace. 
In the same article the secretary of the New South Wales Local Government Association,  Mr Graham  Miles, is reported as stating - I commend him for his foresight - that he is positive that local government should have a direct say in the major financial planning of the nation, that its total loan program would exceed that of 2 States and justifies a say at the Loan Council and that the present higher interest rates and shorter periods of repayment that have to be met by local government as compared with the States are a major contributing factor to the high level of rate charges at the moment.  Mr Miles  is not a politician. He is secretary of the Local Government Association of the major State of Australia. 
It is regrettable that the State Premiers did not agree with the Prime Minister at their meeting on 11 October. If they had done so, local government would have received its greatest boost since Federation. However, the ratepayers may yet triumph, despite the negative and restrictive approach taken by  Sir Robert  Askin. The Prime Minister has already announced that the question of local government representation at the Australian Loan Council will be put to the Australian people for decision by way of a referendum in 1974. So, to all those ratepayers listening today, I ask you to remember quite clearly that this Government has sought to steady your rate burden and improve your local services by giving local government access to cheaper money. But it has been thwarted. When the referendum is held next year, my advice is that you should vote yes to give local governsent access to the Australian Loan Council and a voice at the national financial table. 
This Bill will bring to the people of Australia, to the consumers and to many many thousands of businessmen alike a protection and opportunity that has long been lacking within this country. Business of today has learned to live with the existing legislation much of which has been based on the United States legislation particularly in relation to clause 45 which is based largely on the Sherman Act and in relation to clause 49 which is based on the RobinsonPatman Act. To listen to the comments of mem.bers of the Oppoosition one would think that the United States measures had failed completely but in fact the United States has learned to live with that legislation and it has progressed. It is to the discredit of the present Opposition that in its long period of office in government it did not do something for the Australian people as far as consumer legislation is concerned. 
Much has been said about clause 49, particularly by the previous  speaker,  the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  in reference to economies of scale. It is all very well to say that if you buy in bulk or you buy in large quantities - though really it is stage 1 of the economies of scale of manufacture - that ought to enable a manufacturer or a distributor to gain a saving that ought to be passed on to the retailer. I think sub-clause (2) (a) of clause 49 very clearly sets this out. It says: the discrimination makes only reasonable allowance for differences in the cost of manufacture, sale or delivery resulting from the differing methods by which or quantities in which the goods are sold or delivered to the purchasers; 
In practical terms that describes the savings that can be effected. If there are savings to be gained from larger orders or larger deliveries they ought to be the only reason for a differential in price in supplying goods to retailers or to intermediate wholesalers. It is a fact of businesslife within Australia that price discrimination does exist on a very wide scale and as one of the previous speakers said, one has only to look at the food industry to see the massive diminution in retailing that has taken place and the tremendous growth in sales per head over the last 20 years in this country. I cannot see any more practical way of describing how the differential that may exist can be defined than that set out in clause 49(2)(a). If on the other hand manufacturers, importers, distributors or wholesalers are able to have a particular vague area of discrimination this legislation will have been of no avail at all. Clause 49(1) refers to directly or indirectly discriminating between different purchasers of goods of like grade and quality. Again it is a very common practice in Australian business life for a firm to turn out different brands, as happens with one of the refrigeration manufacturing companies in Australia making 32 different brands of refrigerators which are delivered out of the same factory. It must of course follow that many of those brands are very much alike - the cubic capacity, the cost of operation and the general design. The differences in the product are only superficial. From actual business practice a broad type of definition is needed to group those products together. I feel that the expression 'purchasers of goods of like grade and quality' is very apt. 
Let us look at clause 46 which was mentioned by the previous  speaker  in relation to the definition of monopoly and the comment that has been made that there ought to be some mathematical definition of what constitutes monopoly. I would like to draw the attention of the Committee to the original proposals of  Sir Garfield  Barwick in 1962 when he defined monopoly as acquiring or using monopoly power, which was essentially the power to fix or influence market price or prevent competition, with the intention of stopping entry into the market or an expansion of it. 
From business practice it is a very well known fact that one could have 32 per cent of the market and have much more influence within the market than a firm occupying 33 per cent of the control of the market. It is quite impractical to suggest that there ought to be a mathematical definition of what constitutes monopoly. Of course, it will be left to the court to decide what constitutes monopoly power or monopoly influence. At some stage one has to deal with the practicalities of business life. It has to be left open in that way to determine where power has been the influence. It is quite possible that IS per cent to 20 per cent of market share could be sufficient to influence the market and to be exercising all those advantages which flow to the monopolist or oligopolist in exercising that 15 per cent to 20 per cent power. We hear continual requests from honourable members opposite for clear and precise definitions. They know very well, if they examine business within this country, that business does not operate under clear and precise definitions. It goes where there is a profit and it makes its own rules as it goes along. It does not operate strictly on percentage margins, on percentage shares of the market or on who gets what. It is 'grab what you can while you can'. 
It is very interesting to say that the large buyers in bulk or those who are able to gain a discriminatory price at the expense of the smaller retailer or wholesaler are passing on to the consumer some saving. That is arrant nonsense. What happens within this country is that those companies or sellers which are able to extort for various reasons - whether by share of the market, interlocking boards of directors, connections or shareholdings in the companies concerned or a vertical organisation - and are able to gain a price lower than is available generally on the market, taking into account costs of delivery and the other practical and real costs incurred in delivering goods, are then passing on to the final stage of the consumer stream those prices and gaining profits which the other retailer cannot obtain. So in effect the consumer who is buying from the smaller retailer pays a higher price, which subsidises the operations of the firm obtaining the discriminatory price. It is absolute nonsense to say that this is anti-inflationary in its nature. 
It is obvious from practice in Australia that if one has the pressure, the weight and the connections one gets the right price. To refer to some of the discount houses as being antiinflationary and helping mum, dad and the kids is just so much rot. If one has the power and can obtain the right price one can make a greater profit at the consumer level. What really ought to be happening is that a price ought to be available to all business people, after having taken into account the different costs in delivery. It is very well under clauses 46 and 49, when one refers to the advantage that will flow to a smaller business as a result of this legislation, at some stage to compare the ability to purchase of the smaller businessman and the consumer. I would say that the untrained consumer and the smaller businessman without the benefits of the expertise of large-scale buying and large-scale organisations, are no match at all for the highly skilled, nationally organised vendor with all the benefits of the law available to him and all the benefits of inter-company connections. 
Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to Press reports regarding the abolition of the age allowance scheme for income earners and its effect on New South Wales Railways superannuitants? As a result of the treatment of pension as income for tax purposes as from 1 July 1973, and following the 2 increases in pension since Labor came to office in December last, is it a fact that only a minor percentage of pensioners will be affected and that tax deduction will not be made from superannuitants receiving less than $40 superannuation a fortnight? When will the explanatory booklets on tax on pensions be distributed to pensioners? 
In the few minutes that are left to me this evening I should tike to say something under the heading of the estimates for the Department of Social Security. I see now that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has returned to the chamber. In his weighty remarks on the health scheme he mentioned feathers. I should like to draw to his attention a statement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  earlier this year when referring to .that great Queenslander, the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden, who said: 'Who knows what the future holds? A rooster today may be a feather duster tomorrow.' Maybe that is what the honourable member for Griffith was referring to with his own proposition. 
This evening the people of Australia must wonder what stirs the Opposition to come forth and spend such money in opposing the introduction of a national health insurance program for which this Government has a clear mandate. What is the stimulus? What is the motivation? The answer, in a few words, is that members of the Opposition represent the establishment, and they have their job to do. They must protect the establishment, for behind the opposition to the universal health program are representatives of the vested financial interests of this country - the bastions of conservatism. Those champions of inequality who sit opposite and who talk about an inequitable scheme at the same time persist in supporting the continuation of a scheme that operates to the detriment of the low-income earner. What a pity it is that medical practitioners - honourable, genuine and dedicated as the majority of them are - are being used by these bastions of conservatism and their financial interests to attempt to destroy the prestige and the respect in which the Australian public used to hold members of the medical profession. 
I do not have time to talk about choice of doctors, which I wanted to discuss, but I shall refer to a pamphlet that is being distributed by one of these democratic organisations known as the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia. I put it to honourable members that it is an honourable association. It must be, otherwise it would not be distributing literature which purports to represent a democratic and just point of view to the Australian people but which, in essence, is an exercise in deception as it misleads, confuses and frightens people. Let us look at a few of the points put in this pamphlet. The first is: 
And where are the doctors going to come from to staff the standard beds in public hospitals? 
We all know that the real shortage of doctors is caused simply because too many general practitioners want to be specialists as there is more money in specialisation. We have enough doctors, but we have them in the wrong places. The next point made by the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia is as follows: 
This means that you would have longer delays and queues at your local doctor's surgery. 
What doctor's surgery in Australia does not now have queues? As recently as last week a group of 40 persons had to wait for 3i hours to see a doctor at a group practice in my own electorate. I challenge members of the Opposition to go to the Newcastle region to see in operation the illustrious current health service under which patients have this wonderful choice of doctors. I challenge them to go to any practice at all to see whether they can consult a doctor of their choice at that particular time. I assure them it is impossible. Their argument is a fallacy; it is all bunkum. They know it does not happen, yet they insist on putting this view before the Australian people. There is no freedom of choice of doctor, and no wonderful service is available. It is all a fake. The Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia in its pamphlet states: 
By the way, the Government is also setting up its own health clinics and employing staff doctors on salaries. 
Later it says: 
. it could take two doctors to deal with the same number of patients as would be treated by one doctor in private practice. 
The only interpretation I can put on that is that all salaried doctors, all doctors who Work at the repatriation hospitals and all doctors who have treated our ex-servicemen for 50 years, work only half as hard and are half as efficient as doctors in general practice. I wish members of the Opposition would get in touch with ex-servicemen's organisations in this country and tell them what they think of the doctors and the staffs that man our repatriation hospitals. We have had a system that has been in operation for 50 years, but obviously members of the Opposition think that it is decrepit, inefficient, and does not result in patients being treated as well as they are treated in general practice. They argue that something ought to be done about it. Why not tell the ex-servicemen that? Members of the Opposition are saying that salaried doctors are not as good. Then this honourable organisation, the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia says: 
Under the Government scheme of standard beds and salaried doctors in hospitals, you are likely to be examined and treated in a public hospital by a total stranger. 
I ask members opposite: What happens when  Mrs Brown  goes to hospital and a specialist is called in, and it is the first visit he has made to  Mrs Brown?  Is he a total stranger to her, or has he had some earlier relationship with her so that he is not a total stranger? I ask honourable members opposite to consider this, for that is the view that this Association which they support puts forward - this democratic association, of which the Medical Benefits Fund is a member, and of which the board of 24 members- 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! It being 10.45 p.m., and in accordance with the order of the House of 22 August, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
Last evening when I commenced my remarks on these estimates I was referring to the distribution of pamphlets by some voluntary health organisations. Mention had been made by previous speakers of the cost of those pamphlets. I should just like to bring the attention of the Committee to other expenditure being incurred by the Australian Medical Association and voluntary health organisations in relation to the printing and distribution of the pamphlet The Universal Health Program: The Plain Facts'. We all know that the AMA's Sim fighting fund has been subscribed to by doctors to finance the campaign of misrepresentation, fear and deception that it is waging against this Government's health care proposals which are just and which will bring into operation 2 great principles. The first is the principle of capacity to pay. The taxpayers will share the cost of the health proposals according to their ability to pay as expressed by 1.35 per cent of taxable income. The second principle is the freedom from fear of illness - a great fear that exists amongst our aged people and those who are in less fortunate circumstances. The universal health insurance program will remove that fear. That ought to be an entitlement of all Australians. It is particularly noticeable and despicable that the Society of General Practitioners has concentrated its efforts on the aged, on the pensioners, by threatening to withdraw their services and in a few  cases withdrawing actually their services. 
I would like to mention a letter that is being distributed in the Newcastle region by one member of the Society of General Practitioners. The letter reads in part: 
I find it is necessary tor me to take this action because of the impending Nationalisation of all Health Services in this country, by the Labour Government. 
 I heartily recommend that you join a Medical Fund or Medical Benefits only, as you will continue to receive free hospital care. 
The cost to you will be approximately 55c per week and I am sure a lot of you can afford this amount, particularly if you smoke cigarettes. 
 Your medical fund rebate cheque will be accepted as total payment at all times. 
The distribution of that kind of letter to aged people who worry about their health is indicative of the kind of campaign that is being waged. Before I move on to the health organisations' pamphlets may I say that I would like to be certain that the funds that are being contributed to this campaign by the medical profession will not be listed as part of the advertising costs of their practices. I should like to be certain that doctors' contributions to the AMA fighting fund do not come under the heading of advertising expenditure and so become a tax deduction, because if this is to be the case it will mean that most of the $lm that they are putting up - at least half of it, anyway, because of the rate at which doctors are taxed - will have been subscribed by the taxpayer. Voluntary health insurance funds are spending a lot of money distributing pamphlets. Again I am sure that the members of the funds have not been asked what they think about that expenditure. Their advice has not been sought, and certainly their permission has not been sought, to authorise the expenditure of fund finances on what can only be described as a pamphlet that attempts to create fear, deception and confusion in the minds of our aged and sick people. 
I have to pay a tribute to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  for coming to the defence of his country cousins. But, alas, where was he when the Post and Telegraph Bill, which provided for the increases in telephone charges, was being debated? On that occasion the whole of that section of the chamber where the Liberal Party members reside on odd occasions was vacant. I think one member of the Liberal Party was present and a few honourable members were in cockies' corner. I have to acknowledge that. Let us have a look at the increase in telephone rentals about which the Country Party members are making so much noise and have waxed so eloquent. Why do not the Country Party members really tell the truth to their electorates and to their constituents? They should have a look at the increase in telephone rentals- 
I doubt their capacity to do so. Telephone rentals have been increased from $27 to $55, which represents an enormous increase of 52c per week! I know that there has been a slight increase in the price of wool! There has been a rather larger than normal increase in the price of meat. 
I will come to the pensioners. I am very interested in the pensioners; I know that honourable members opposite are not. In spite of these relatively minor increases in the prices of primary products, this enormous increase in telephone rentals of 52c a week seems to be the major concern of the members of the Country Party. 
The pensioners' share of that is about 17c a week. But the honourable member is not interested in the pensioners. He should tell the truth. Let us have a look at the other telephone rental, which went up from $38 to $55. That represents an increase of 34c a week. I hope that members of the Country Party can manage on that; otherwise we might have to increase the subsidy on wheat or pay a further subsidy on wool to make up the 34c a week for them. Why do honourable members opposite not do some thing about the position of the employee on the farm of the primary producer? He pays a higher rate of registration for his motor vehicle than does the primary producer. The primary producer pays a concessional rate. What are the State governments of the political persuasion of honourable members opposite doing about that? It is a terrible shame. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! If the honourable member for Bowman would cease interjecting we might find out. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no substance to the point of order. I suggest to the honourable member for Shortland that he should address the Chair. I also suggest to him that I would not like to live on 17c a week, as he suggested at one stage. 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  for your very wise ruling, but I think you misunderstood me. I referred to the increase in telephone rentals and said that the increase for a pensioner would amount to 17c a week. I am sorry that that was misunderstood. However, I do appreciate the point of order taken by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  because he does have difficulty in knowing what is and what is not relevant. At the same time I was having difficulty in bringing to the notice of the people of this nation the truth of what members of the Australian Country Party are really saying. As I said, the reduced telephone rentals were applicable to country areas, and a large majority of telephone subscribers were asking why they should have to pay a higher rental than people in the rural areas who were receiving and benefiting from the best year ever in the history of this nation. 
I do not know whether it is true or not. The honourable member for Darling Downs may stand and tell me that it is not true, but I can only relate to him what people I know in the country have said. I realise that the honourable member for Darling Downs has a limited capacity with figures and has difficulty in understanding what is relevant and what is not relevant. I take all those things into consideration. Is it not more reasonable that there be a general rental rate for all telephone subscribers? If it is a requirement and if it is in the national interest that certain rural areas should have a lower telephone rental applied to them because of a lower rate of telephone usage than the urban areas, would not one have thought that, after almost a quarter of a century of Country Party dominated government, that policy would have been evolved and put into operation rather than honourable members opposite imposing upon other telephone subscribers a higher telephone rental so that they could buy more votes? Is that not really what honourable members opposite have been doing in the country? We would have bought the farm but instead honourable members opposite bought votes with public money. 
On the same point, in a long term evaluation of telephone usage and technology, would not one expect that, with progress in the field of radio and radio telephony, a better, more efficient and more economical method of providing communication to outlying areas would have been evolved? But honourable members opposite do not want that. They want to stand and scream about the telephone charges because they think it sounds good back home. What they are screaming about are increases of 34c a week .and 52c a week. I would hazard the guess that probably half of the people affected claim that increase as a deductible expense in the operation of their farms. They are not all pensioners, paying the increase out of their pockets. The taxpayer is still paying half the increase imposed in these areas. 
Let us move on a little further to the night that this debate took place. I know that it is difficult for honourable members opposite to remember, but there were a few members present over in the Country Party corner of the House. Members of the Liberal Party were absent because they were not interested and they did not have the courage when they were in government to do anything about the situ ation. When members of the Liberal Party were missing, the Bill went through this House and little was said about telephone charges but a lot was said about postal charges. Certain members of the Country Party, I think, in one way or another are connected with country newspapers. The Bill went over to the Senate and it returned to this House in an amended form. When ft came back amended I can recall the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  standing and saying: 'Well, we have to accept that there are increased charges'. The Postmaster-General was congratulated on his reasonable attitude. He was told what a fine gentleman he was, and it was said that these charges had to be accepted. But, stranger than fiction, during that second debate no mention whatever was made of telephone charges. Not one member of the Country Party opened his mouth that night when the Bill came back for further consideration. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and other honourable members, including I think the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  were so anxious to support that Bill and rush through this place the reduced charge for country newspapers that they completely forgot their concern for telephone charges. Is it truthful for Country Party members to tell country people that they fought against increased . telephone charges? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! The honourable member for Darling Downs will cease interjecting. 
He has difficulty with his vocal chords from time to time,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  On that occasion the Country Party was mute for once. Its members were not concerned about telephone charges then, but they want to say now that they fought against them. They did not. They put up a sham. They were putting on an act. 
The honourable member for Patterson says 'Rubbish'. That is the attitude of the Country Party to telephone charges. According to the Country Party, they are rubbish. They do not mean one word they say about them. Country Party members were not interested enough to open their mouths about this matter. They were so anxious to get through reduced postal charges for their friends who operate the country newspapers that they forgot about telephone charges. What are the country newspapers? They are nothing but a propaganda organ. Honourable members should get away from the cities and see what is published in them. Country Party members were concerned because they -.aw that their avenues of propaganda were being cut off. I only wish that the country people could come here and see the humbug being indulged in by representatives of the Country Party in relation to telephone charges. If they did so, they would realise their faith is being placed in the wrong people and it was time they put into the Parliament people who are genuine in their attitude. 
In the few moments that are left to me in this debate I would like quickly to nail some of the nonsense that has been put forward by the Opposition this afternoon and this evening in what should have been a most important debate on an historic piece of legislation. I hope sincerely that the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  will get some copies of Hansard and take them back to his own electorate so that the local government authorities up there may see what he had to say in this place. If he nas had anything to do with local government he would know that his remarks could be regarded only as a betrayal of the interests of local government. 
You just send them some copies of your speech and tell them what you had to say. As far as local government is concerned, one would gather from the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  that local government was being asked to agree to access at a national level to the Australian Loan Council. All this has emanated from a request throughout the land from local government, from every State and from almost every region. As recently as 2 days ago while this Bill was on the notice paper the Australian Council for Local Government Associations meeting in Hobart resolved to support this Government in its campaign at the referendum for local government access to the Loan Council. That shows how up to date the honourable member is. In addition to that, the Australian Council for Local Government Associations resolved to set up within its own organisation a body to raise funds and to seek financial assistance at a national level. For whom is the Opposition speaking? It certainly is not speaking on behalf of local government and it certainly is not aware of the needs of local government - otherwise it would not be opposed to this legislation tonight. Look at the delegates. The delegate who put the case for New South Wales local government authorities is one of the colleagues of the Leader of the Party to which the honourable member for Paterson belongs and one of the colleagues of  Mr Cutler  in New South Wales. I refer to 
Alderman Coates, M.L.A. for Blue Mountains in New South Wales, who said that local government authorities need access to Federal finance, that they need access to lower interest rates. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Immigration I wish to bring a few matters to the notice of the Committee. I am pleased to note the increased allocation of $10,420,000 for 1973-74 for the child migrant education program as compared with the actual expenditure for 1972-73 of $5,061,184. This is more than a 100 per cent increase. Likewise, the 1973-74 allocation for the adult migrant education program including part-time instruction is $3,600,000 this year as compared with an actual expenditure in 1972-73 of $1,917,740. Most new settlers come to Australia with the objective of bettering their socio-economic position, readily adapt to the Australian way of life and accept the concept of being partners in building the Australian nation. Their beneficial effect to our style of living since the commencement of the immigration program in 1949 is well known to all of us and is welcomed. 
The lot of the migrant can be a very lonely one particularly if he or she does not understand the Australian language. Many become isolated in a prison of non-communication. They can converse only with their own countrymen. For most of their daily lives they are locked in a cell by the barriers of language difficulty. This situation does not apply only to new arrivals. Many of our middle-aged and even persons in the higher age group who have been in Australia for many years are still unable to speak the Australian language. The Government needs to do more to enable these people to learn our language and so to join fully in our Australian life stream. In many families the children act as interpreters. They translate the circulars from school, the household accounts and the household correspondence. But it is the aged migrant who does not have continual access to an interpreter who really suffers loneliness - I said earlier, the extreme loneliness that comes from being unable to communicate, from going about one's life in sign language. Some of our migrants have to shop in that fashion. 
Many of our new settlers are unskilled manual workers in heavy industry, factories, in the building and related industries. These are occupations in which the risk of on the job injury is greater than in the more highly skilled occupations. Then follows the problems associated with workers compensation claims. It is interesting to note that there is reference in the report of the New South Wales Migrant Task Force of June 1973 to the injury known in the vernacular as Mediterranean back. I have several constituents who are new settlers and who have suffered internal back injuries on the job - injuries that are difficult to treat and injuries that have destroyed the ability of those persons to carry on their respective occupations. In each case the reporting of the accident, the subsequent medical treatment and compensation litigation have been prolonged and hampered by language difficulties. The conditions under which the injuries occurred could be related to poor safety education and poor safety protection on the job. The unskilled migrants employed in those industries which were first to be hurt in the times of economic squeezes under the stop-go financial policies of the previous Government were the people least able to protect themselves. Because of language problems they were least able to adapt to changing employment opportunities and to seek other positions. It is no wonder that so many new settlers become disillusioned and pack up and leave at the first chance. The Labor Government recognises the difficulties that the migrants face and will do its best to help them overcome their difficulties and become permanent settlers. 
The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox),  who was the previous  speaker  in the debate, made some remarks concerning the beneficial effects of our migrants and of the new settlers who have come to this country since World War II. I should like to support him in those comments, but I take issue with him on the number of new settlers coming to this country. He was a supporter of the Government which was in office until 2 December of last year and in which, obviously, there was dissension as to what ought to be the migration policy of Australia at that stage. I wish to quote from page 2052 of the Hansard report of the debate on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1972-73 in which the former honourable member for Mcpherson said: 
But it is time that we took a pull on this migration operation, particularly in respect of bringing people here who are in such a desperate situation in their own countries that for them anything is better. I know there are great interests in Australia which are allegedly short of manpower to develop our resources. But at the same time we have thousands of Australians, skilled people, going to universities and high schools. 
It would appear from what the honourable member for Henty said today that he did not agree with the attitude of the former honourable member for Mcpherson, who was a member of the Australian Country Party, at that stage. I will come back to that a little later on. 
I move on to the situation that now exists as far as the citizenship ceremony is concerned. As from 1 December of this year, as a result of the amendments forced upon the Government recently by the Opposition in the Senate to the Australian Citizenship Bill 1973, British subjects registering for Australian citizenship will be required to participate in the public citizenship ceremony. In my own area - the Newcastle region - there have been reports in the Press and even, I understand, letters to some of the columnists of British settlers having complained because they have not had the opportunity previously to participate in these ceremonies. They felt that they were being left out, that the ceremony was an important one and that they, as new members of the family of the Australian nation, ought to be able to participate in it. As from 1 December they will be able to do that. But, as I have said, as a result of the amendments forced upon the Government by the Opposition in the Senate, as from 1 December settlers from the United Kingdom and any of the other British Commonwealth of Nations countries will be required to renounce their allegiance in the oath sworn at such citizenship ceremonies. In effect it means that they will be required in that oath to renounce allegiance to the United Kingdom, if they come from that country, and to swear allegiance to this country and Queen Elizabeth of Australia. I am very sure that there are going to be considerable misgivings by settlers who come here from the British Commonwealth of Nations at having to renounce allegiance to their country of origin, particularly if it is the United Kingdom. 
I want to make it very clear to listeners to this debate and to honourable members that the present oath of allegiance is not something that this Government wanted. It fought very hard to have the renunciation sentence excluded from the oath, but, as I said earlier, as a result of the efforts of the Opposition in the Senate all candidates for naturalisation and for citizenship will be required to renounce allegiance to the country within the British Commonwealth of Nations from which they have come. I say again that the retention of the renunciation of allegiance to one's country of origin is a hurtful exercise. It has no legality in the international world. I can only interpret it as being an effort to try to keep such citizens off the electoral roll. There are something like a quarter of a million permanent settlers in this country who have to take out citizenship before they can become enrolled. The retention of the renunciation of all other allegiance is a severe emotional barrier to many of them. 
The Australian Country Party was much to the forefront in insisting upon the retention of the renunciation. I would like to quote again from page 2052 of Hansard. It states: 
How many Scandinavians or north Europeans do we attract to Australia? These are the people who have made a success of life in their own countries. We can attract only the people who have made a devil of a mess of life in their own countries - and they will make a devil of a mess of Australia. 
That again was the former honourable member for Mcpherson speaking in this House. That was his attitude. Obviously it was the attitude at the time at a very high level of the Australian Country Party. If that was the Country Party's opinion of the new settlers who were coming to this country then it is very understandable that it should insist upon the retention of the renunciation of allegiance in the new Australian Citizenship Act. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development I want to say something about the dramatic progress that has been achieved for local government by the Australian Labor Government in its first year of office. This Government, in accordance with its election campaign pledge of 1972, is committed to the strengthening and upgrading of local government. Local government is an important partner in government. The Australian Government pursues a course of giving greater recognition to the role it plays and the responsibility it has in our 3-tier system of government. It is the Labor Party's policy to try to ease the burden of increasing rates on home owners and intending home owners, and at the same time to see that there is opportunity for important improvements in the range and quality of municipal services. 
Municipal, city and shire councils have come a long way in the years since Federation.  Major items  of expenditure by local governments today are public works; health administration, including garbage collection and disposal; public services; administrative and general expenses; the maintenance of municipal property; and the acquisition of assets. High works outlays dominate the expenditure of most local authorities and in the majority of cases a continuing rise in total annual spending has also occurred. With recurrent cost increases, improving standards of living and growing public wants, the expansion in local government spending has often exceeded the rate of population growth. We live today in a time when the public looks more and more to local government for increased services, particularly in the field of welfare. This Government is looking to greater community involvement in the implementation of its social welfare programs by seeking the participation of councils in the decision making process at the local level. 
The financial position of local government has rapidly worsened in the period since World War II. It operates under a set of financial arrangements that were drawn up in the period immediately following World War I. They were arrangements based on the situation and needs of the 1920s when local government borrowing was relatively insignificant. This Government has taken several steps to improve the financial  position of  local government. Firstly, at the insistence of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  for the first time local government was represented at the Australian Constitutional Convention. Secondly, the 1973-74 Budget provides an amount of $30m to reduce the backlog of sewerage services in the States. Thirdly, we have seen the establishment of the Cities Commission to plan and develop new cities, to develop new areas on proper planning principles and to assist regional groupings in the presentation of applications to the Grants Commission. Fourthly, we have seen the enlargement of the Australian Grants Commission and the granting of local government access to it through regional groupings. This access to grants from the Grants Commission will go far in assisting local councils in lesser privileged areas more effectively to provide municipal, health and welfare services for their communities. 
Fifthly, we have seen the establishment of land commissions to stabilise land prices in the respective States and to give the mass of the people an opportunity to obtain a home and land at a reasonable price. Sixthly, despite the opposition from the Liberal and Country Party members, the Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill has passed this chamber and has been sent to the Senate for approval. If the Senate rejects the Bill it will be passed again in this chamber in the new year and the Australian people will have the opportunity at the referendum to be held in conjunction with the next Senate election to authorise an amendment to the Constitution which will give local government access to the Australian Loan Council for borrowings. This will mean longer term borrowing and lower interest rates for councils, and what amounts to a saving for ratepayers. 
At this stage what does local government think of the action that has been taken by the Australian Government? Let me mention a couple of the motions put to the Australian Council of Local Government Associations by the New South Wales Local Government Association executive. The first was: 
That the Australian Government be formally thanked for its assistance in securing local government representation at the Australian Constitutional Convention. 
Another motion was: 
That local government in all States join together for the purpose of mounting a strong publicity campaign to inform the public on the importance to local government of a 'Yes' vote at the proposed referendum concerning the admission of local government to the Australian Council. 
It is interesting to note that at the meeting of the Australian Council in Hobart last week the Council unanimously carried a decision supporting the case at the referendum for access by local government to the Australian Loan Council and to establish a body to operate at the national level to seek finance for local government. The Opposition parties have steadfastly opposed any upgrading of the status of local government. One can judge this only as an exercise in hypocrisy. Many members of the respective political parties are also active in local government. I do not think that anybody in public life today fails to see the bind in which local government is caught financially. It is said at the local level that local government should be upgraded, that it should be given assistance and recognition. But here in the place where it matters and in the Senate, Opposition members join together under a different set of hats to oppose local government. 
In conclusion let me refer to the continued approach of the Australian Country Party members, particularly, to draw a difference between the needs of the urban areas and the needs of the rural areas in development. According to my observations, their attitude is to alienate the views of the country population and those of the metropolitan areas. To me this is patent divisiveness. The reactionary political parties have always existed on a policy of divide and rule, trying to show people that they are different from them. After all, urban dwellers and rural dwellers are Australians. Both rural towns and metropolitan areas ought to be developed under the best planning principles, under the best access to finance and under the most efficient methods possible. After 23 years of standing still under Liberal-Country Party administration there has been a change. The sweeping out of the old brigade and the arrival of the new Australian Labor Party Government has resulted in recognition being given to local government and the institution of new principles of planning and developing our cities as well as decentralisation. The Albury-Wodonga Development Bill, which was introduced this evening is clear evidence that the Government is acting as quickly as it can to develop areas away from metropolitan and urban regions on the basis of developing Australia in the best interests of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation the following question, upon notice: 
What are the (a) guaranteed annual salaries and (b) average annual salaries of Australian domestic airline Captains and First Officers employed by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries on Boeing 727, DC9, F28 and F27 aircraft. 
What are the respective contributions by the pilots and the airlines to the existing superanuation fund and what are the benefits to the pilots. 
What are the respective contributions by the airlines and pilots to loss of licence insurance for pilots. 
What are the details of the new superannuation claim by the Australian Federation of Airline Pilots and what would such a claim cost the airlines annually. 
How many AFAP members are involved. 
If the AFAP claim is granted would an increase in fares be necessary; if so, to what extent. 
It is disappointing that the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten),  on the one hand supports the legislation before the House, and on the other hand has to fall back on the old catch cry of the Australian Country Party of talking about support for decentralisation and calamity howling about the provisions of the Budget that has been adopted. As one who comes from the Newcastle region, I have experienced the decentralisation policy of the Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales. For year after year it has been a policy of talking about decentralisation but never doing anything about it. The New South Wales Government knows very well that the implementation of a policy of decentralisation would bring about an electoral imbalance, which would only seal the Government's own doom in the future. 
If the New South Wales Government wants to talk about what, has been done for the Hunter Valley area or the Newcastle region it might talk about the electrification of the railways, which was promised by the present New South Wales Minister for Transport back in 1965 but for which we are still waiting; the deepening of Newcastle Harbour which was promised and for which we are still waiting; and the dockyard which perhaps we will get now after pressure from our own Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I have to take exception to the continual crying and calamity howling about conditions in the countryside that we hear from members of the Country Party, because they are not telling the people of Australia the truth. All they are doing is spreading fear. Probably their best title would be that of fearmongers. The reference by the honourable member for Indi to the Budget and to the fact that there is worse to come reminded me of the statement of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  after the first revaluation of the Australian currency, about the doom that was going to befall this nation, and the worst things that would happen when the second revaluation was made. Then when the tariff cuts were made the Leader of the Australian Country Party said that the situation would be worse still. Yet this morning out of the blue came the knight on the white charger with the announcement that we should float our currency. So I hope that members of the Country Party go back to their electorates at the weekend and explain to the people how they can justify that statement. 
I should like to move on to more positive things rather than to dwell on the untruths and misrepresentations of the members of the Country Party. In this cognate debate I am pleased to speak in support of the Land Commissions (Financial Assistance) Bill. It is a most important Bill. I remind the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in presenting the Australian Labor Party policy speech on 13 November 1972, said: 
We will set up a Commonwealth-State land development commission in each State to buy substantial tracts of land in new areas being opened up for housing and to lease or sell at cost fully serviced housing blocks. 
The passage of this legislation will enable the implementation of the major part of that promise. Private enterprise and all levels of Government have a responsibility to work in harmony for the benefit of the Australian people. There will always be an important role in development for private enterprise. It will always be the role of government to provide leadership, to establish guidelines and to co-ordinate national growth. However, because the provision and development of land for home sites and new cities has been left too much to the private sector, especially since World War II, the home seeker has been subjected to artificial shortages of home sites and what can only be termed as exorbitant prices for homes and land. 
While I said earlier that there is a role for private enterprise in the development of commercial and residential land, some of the practices followed by land development companies in the past have been so outrageous that the word 'developers' has become a dirty one. This Bill seeks to plan and develop land in cooperation with the respective State governments and to provide Australians with a greater, more reasonable opportunity to obtain land on which to erect a home or establish a commercial activity. Decisions by governments at the 3 levels - Federal, State and local - and expenditure of public moneys by governments in the provision of public services such as water, sewerage, power, construction of  public  buildings, all add to the value of land. A stroke of the planner's pen can cause massive increases in land values for those persons fortunate enough to hold land which is the subject of rezoning proposals. Fortunes have been made as a result of this process. At the same time large tracts of land are held back, particularly by companies associated with developers, in anticipation of possible rezoning. 
In addition, individual landholders, particularly in recent years in a climate of spiralling land values, have held back their land in expectation of higher prices. The tragedy has been that the expenditure of public moneys in improving essential community services to land has been a contributing factor to the rapid increase in land values, thus forcing up the cost to the community of land required for public purposes. In each of the States we have had varying degrees of planning at various levels. What has been lacking always has been a co-ordination of planning objectives and implementation for the community benefit. 
This Bill aims to provide just that, at considerable savings to the people. The eminent British sociologist,  Dr Raymond  Pahl, once stated: 
All planning is social planning, considering the people not the buildings. There can be no planning without the power to influence the allocation and reallocation of substantial resources. Planning is about power; planning without power is singing to the seagulls. 
Land is a vital resource. Co-operation between the States governments and the Australian Government in the acquisition and development of land as a result of this legislation will provide a new quality of power in planning and development. The operation of the Land Commissions will enable the achievement of 3 main aims: Firstly, land will be made available at reasonable prices; secondly, land will be able to be planned comprehensively and developed; and, thirdly, some of the increase in value which derives from the process of urban development and community expenditure will be retained for the benefit of the community. 
In the past one of the major characteristics in the growth and sequence of development of our urban areas has been that of private initiative for profit. It has resulted in heavy and avoidable stress on public expenditure in providing essential services and in scattered development within urban areas - a fact well known by city and shire planners in local government. The acquisition and development of land by the Land Commissions will put a stop to all that. The conditions governing the purchase, zoning and subdivision of land in past years have provided a paradise for speculators at the expense of home seekers and the public purse. 
Let there be no mistake, this Government is committed to a course of action that will put an end to the excessive profits that speculators have made from land. Under the terms of the Bill financial assistance will be made available to the States under 2 main groups of conditions, the first of which deals with the usual conditions relating to terms of finance. The second group could generally be called performance conditions, the main two of which are that each State should carry out its land acquisition programs through an organisation structure agreeable to the Australian Government, and that the States should enact legislation to acquire land at prices uninfluenced by announcements of intended urban development. 
It should be understood quite clearly that the objective of the legislation is not to reduce the capital value of assets or to place a freeze on land prices but rather to ensure that any increase in price as a result of Government decision and announcement is not loaded on to purchasers. Rezoning land from low density land use to higher land use patterns causes the price to rise. Speculative demand has thus concentrated in areas where development is planned. Increased prices paid for land by developing bodies, whether private or public, are invariably passed on to the consumer in the form of higher prices for services for land and housing. 
I have mentioned the speculative and inflationary role played by private enterprise in land development. In New South Wales the Government of that State has participated fully in the auctioning of crown land at what can only be described as exhorbitant and highly inflationary prices. That Government's sole object has been to obtain maximum return for the State Treasury without regard for the needs of home seekers and the inflationary effects its activities in the sale of land have had on prices in the relevant area. The Minister for Lands in the New South Wales Government has deliberately set out to force up land prices by setting absurdly high upset or reserve prices on blocks of Crown land. In my electorate they were absurdly high prices as was shown recently at an auction of crown land at Whitebridge. 
What happened at that sale? Buyers protested and refused to pay the exorbitant prices set. On 11 August 1973 42 serviced home sites were offered for auction at reserve prices ranging from $9,000 to $14,000 a block- a new level for land prices in the shire of Lake Macquarie. Some 50 or 60 people turned up at the auction. One group expressed passive opposition to the reserve prices set by displaying signs calling for a return to the ballot system. Only 12 blocks were sold out of the 42 offered. All the blocks sold went at the reserve price except two, one of which brought $50 above the reserve and the other $100 above the reserve. In each case there was only one bid. The sale quickly became known as the Whitebridge fiasco. When the State member for the area,  Mr Richard  Face, M.L.A., raised in the New South Wales Parliament the subject of the high reserve prices set for those blocks the Minister for Lands, the Honourable Tom Lewis, M.L.A., who is a member of the so called law and order Government of New South Wales threatened to send police along to future Crown land auction sales to prevent the attendance of passive protestors. What a ridiculous attitude for a Minister to adopt. In effect the Minister said that police were available and will be used to ensure that higher land prices are obtained for the New South Wales Treasury coffers. However apparently there are not enough police in New South Wales to prevent fire bombings in Kings Cross. I hope that the establishment of the lands commission will put an end to that kind of approach by the New South Wales Government to the provision of home sites. 
The result of the contrived scarcity of land and the artificially high land prices in the Lake Macquarie shire in my electorate can be seen in the new land valuations now issuing in that shire. Increases range from the order of 200 per cent up to 500 per cent and in some cases 1,000 per cent compared with the previous valuations of 1968-69. Ratepayers, many of whom are pensioners, will be faced with staggering rate increases. Clearly, some will be rated out of their homes. Those who are on fixed incomes will be the most vulnerable. I have no doubt that the council will seek to adjust its 1974 rate on the basis of the new valuations but no flat rate in the dollar on an across the board application can take account of the distortion in values that occurs following speculation in properties and the artificial forcing up of the price of land. 
The presentation of this legislation to the Parliament signals a new high in the closer co-operation of this Government and the various State governments. I remind honourable members of the Opposition of this. It shows that it can be done and is being done and that the States do want to co-operate. It shows that there can be harmony and productive liaison between the Federal Government and the States for the benefit of the community, contrary to the phoney divisive catchcries of members of the Opposition parties who seek to fool the people into believing that Labor is out destroy the States. We know the results of the Opposition's 23 years of stagnant administration that catered only to the concern of the vested interests who donated so heavily to their campaign funds. It is appropriate, in conclusion, to recognise the achievements of the Minister who in his first year of office has made great progress through wise negotiation and supreme patience in reaching agreements with his State counterparts and in bringing this Bill before the House. I support the Bill. 
Tonight I speak in support of the recommendation of the Karmel Committee on Medical Education that a medical school be established in Newcastle. In its report brought down in July this year the Committee recommended: 
The University of Newcastle should establish a medical school to take its first students in 1977, maintaining a second year enrolment of 60 until 1983 when it should be increased to 100. 
Whilst I am aware and apreciative of the needs of other cities that placed submissions before the Committee for the establishment of a medical school, I believe that the claim of the Newcastle-Hunter region is an outstanding one. I am indebted to the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  for his assistance this evening in the preparation of this speech. The 
Hunter region, with a population in excess of 400,000  -  that is, a population greater than that of the State of Tasmania - is without a medical school. Royal Newcastle Hospital, through its outpatient clinics, conducts more than 900,000 consultations per year. It has the largest outpatient department in the southern hemisphere. 
At the outset, I want to pay tribute to the board of directors, the executive officers and the 2,218 staff of Royal Newcastle Hospital for the exemplary standard of service they provide to the people of Newcastle. The hospital, first established in 1817 in a building intended as a convict gaol, is the second oldest and third largest in the State. It is held in high regard by all persons concerned with the provision of health services. Last year its admissions were approximately 21,470 and its outpatient attendances were more than twice the number at any other hospital in New South Wales. Its specialist medical staff consists of 64 honorary and sessional specialists and 31 full time salaried medical officers. There are also 30 registrars and 47 resident medical officers. 
The following visiting specialist medical services in medical care and orthopaedics are provided by Royal Newcastle Hospital to hospitals in the Hunter Valley: Full time physicians undertake care of medical patients in the public wards of Maitland Hospital; the orthopaedic department provides a regular clinic service to Maitland, Kurri Kurri and Cessnock Hospitals; the consultants of the obstetric department co-operate with the Department of Health in providing a consultant service to doctors in the area; and for the past 13 years the hospital has supplied Maitland Hospital with resident medical officers. 
The hospital's domiciliary care service provides supportive home care service for almost 2,000 patients. The team consists of specialist geriatricians, with occupational therapists, district nurses and housekeepers working in conjunction with patients' own general practitioners. Clearly this service would provide an excellent basis upon which to build medical student training in community medicine and family practice. A unique feature of the hospital is its outpatient contribution fund which has provided casualty, outpatient, radiology and pathology services for the past 24 years. The hospital runs a blood bank which collects about 10,000 pints of blood a year and supplies all hospitals in the city. 
Let me refer briefly to the 6 units administered by the Royal Newcastle Hospital Board. The main unit in the city comprises 509 beds, of which 73 are for obstetric patients. This site could accommodate an additional ward block and extensions for teaching facilities. At Rankin Park the 128 beds are used for chest disease patients and general medical services. Also there are facilities where male patients are given graduated work as part of a rehabilitation and retraining program. The Lodge at Rankin Park provides hostel type accommodation for unmarried mothers. The William Lyne unit is the centre of the domiciliary care service, where about 600 elderly and disabled patients receive treatment each year. This unit also accommodates long term crippled children. Belmont Hospital, with 108 beds, is a new general and maternity hospital with adequate room for expansion. Shortland Clinic, which has 21 beds and is located about a quarter of a mile from the main city unit, provides care for psychiatric patients as inpatients, outpatients and day patients. In addition, accommodation is available for up to 30 students in residence during obstetric and other live in terms. 
The Royal Newcastle Hospital has pursued a policy of community involvement and total patient care, insofar as this is possible, for many years. Its training programs cover a broad range. The hospital has 30 specialists in training, all of whose posts are approved by the various postgraduate examination bodies. Resident medical officers are offered appointments over a wide range of terms for a maximum of 3 years, subject to annual reappointment. Since 1972 University of Sydney fifth year medical students have received training in surgery, gynaecology and geriatrics. Nurses' training courses are available for general nurses, obstetric nurces and intensive care nurses. The hospital has a long and proud history in the training of nursing graduates to the highest standards. A postgraduate medical education committee has been established and is developing at all postgraduate levels. An extensive medical library is maintained. 

 Mr Speaker, there is need in Newcastle for a new medical school which should be developed at the University of Newcastle in association with the hospitals in the area and centred on the Royal Newcastle Hospital for the following reasons: The supply of potential teaching beds; the size of the existing medical schools in Sydney; the population distribution; the general desirability of decentralisation and the orientation towards social medicine and family practice. Over a period of many years the residents of the Newcastle-Hunter region have waged a continuing campaign to have a medical school established there. I have the complete support of my colleagues, the Minister for Transport and Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones),  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James);  the State members,  Mr Face, Mr Jones, Mr Hunter, Mr Wade  and  Mr Booth,  all members of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly in this project; also the Newcastle City Council, the Newcastle Chamber of Commerce, the Central Northern Medical Association, all of the hospitals in the region, many other citizen organisations and, most importantly, the citizens themselves and on this occasion, the support also of the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock). 
It is only 2 years ago that the then New South Wales Minister for Health,  Mr Jago,  foreshadowed a medical school for Newcastle within 5 years, that is, by 1976. However, the New South Wales Government's submission to the Karmel Committee proposed that foreseeable future needs for medical education could be met by extending the capacity of existing schools in Sydney. 
Following the Karmel Committee's report,  Mr Jago  in a letter to the Newcastle City Council said: 
The New South Wales Government's submission to the Committee clearly indicated foreseeable future needs for medical education could be met by extending the capacity of existing schools. While not opposed to establishment of an additional school in Newcastle, the State Government would insist on a satisfactory financial arrangement with the Australian Government for all increased costs. 
Does  Mr Jago's  statement mean the establishment of a medical school at Newcastle is to be inhibited by the economies of scale available by simply expanding existing schools in Sydney? If this is all that is withholding New South Wales support for Newcastle, then his successor and the Australian Government should consider the bad features of further enlarging medical schools which are already too large by the international standards accepted by most authorities. When medical schools become too large they become too impersonal, and it becomes increasingly difficult to experiment and diversify with new teaching methods. This is particularly serious in an age when medical and teaching techniques are changing with an increasing rapidity. 
With the dynamic new concept which this Government has implemented of making the national Government responsible for tertiary education and searching for quality of life and a bare quality of opportunity rather than economies of providing minimum of essential education, we should not delay any longer doing what is necessary to prevent further growth of Sydney's already overgrown medical schools. If extra finances are needed to start a new medical school, this Government ought to declare itself in favour of this principle. Likewise,  Mr Jago's  successor ought to spell out his support for this same principle.  Mr Jago  has said that his Government wanted further development in Sydney only and throws the onus entirely onto Canberra for a different initiative and new financial arrangements. If the New South Wales Government has any intention of decentralising and improving medical training, it ought to say so clearly and stop hedging. 
I strongly request the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  supported by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  to give the green light to the Australian Universities Commission to implement the recommendations of the Karmel Committee on medical education which gave Newcastle top priority for the next medical school in New South Wales. It has better developed facilities than any of the other applicant centres, which would mean early operation of the school, a point which the Australian Minister for Health has conceded is one of the strongest arguments in favour of Newcastle. I hope that the Minister for Education will act promptly to initiate implementation of the Karmel Committee's recommendation on the Newcastle medical school. I hope that the New South Wales Government will show the same spirit of co-operation with the Australian Government as has been exhibited with respect to the Albury-Wodonga proposals and act quickly, as barely 3 years remain to prepare the school for the intake of its first students in 1977. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Recreation and Tourism been drawn to the number of recent drownings of young people and adults, particularly swimmers and amateur fishermen? What action has the Australian Government taken to reduce this tragic wastage of human lives? What further steps can he initiate to see that more people are taught to swim and that greater safety precautions are taken to prevent further loss of life? 
I am told that the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  has a fine naval record. It is obvious that he is still at sea as far as the legislation contained in these Bills is concerned. Still, that is understandable when one looks at the words of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  as reported in the Brisbane Courier-Mail' of today. He referred to those people not covered under the present scheme. The report states: 
Only pensioners, migrants, the indolent, no-hopers and alcoholics would benefit from the Government's health scheme', the Liberal welfare spokesman  (Mr Chipp)  said yesterday. 
In 1969 and again in 1972 the Australian Labor Party canvassed throughout the nation the principles of the health insurance program embodied in the 2 Bills now before this House. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What was the percentage of (a) votes gained and (b) seats won by (i) the Liberal Party, (ii) the Country Party and (iii) the Australian Labor Party at the General Elections for the House of Representatives in (A) 1963, (B) 1966, (C) 1969 and (D) 1972. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
In respect of the State electoral districts in each State, can he say what is the (a) total State enrolment, (b) number of electoral districts, (c) average enrolment, (d) number of zones, (e) highest enrolment in a district and by what percentage is it above average enrolment, (0 lowest enrolment in a district and by what percentage is it below average enrolment. 
Can he provide details of the distribution into State electoral districts of each of the States: if so, what are the details. 
 The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has a most heartening note on which to sponsor this legislation through the House. I refer to the knowledge he has that every State has already indicated its acceptance of the provisions of this legislation. Again, it is true to say that this legislation is the result of a long period of earnest, detailed co-operation and negotiation between the Minister and his counterparts in the States. I congratulate him on what is another personal achievement. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  the previous  speaker,  referred to a statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during the 1972 election campaign. While Labor was saying this, what did the Government of which he was a  Minister do? It did as it usually did as far as local government was concerned and that was nothing. 
The sewerage backlog presently existing in this nation did not develop in the last 12 months. The major share of it developed over the 23 years of urbanisation and development of the nation over which the Liberal-Country Party Government had responsibility. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition talked about local government debt. What did the previous Government do for local government debt? It helped it build up to what can only be described as a height of unbelievable figures which were completely out of proportion compared with State and Federal debt in Australia. The previous Government ignored the needs of local government. The Opposition even fought the passage of the Grants Commission Bill in this place and the Opposition parties continued to fight it in another place and outside of the 2 Houses. A few days ago, they even opposed the Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill 1974 which provided for an alteration to the Constitution to allow local government access to the Loan Council. So I do not think anybody can regard seriously the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition when he started to talk about the financial position of local government. 
This Bill will provide funds for the implementation of the first stage of this Government's election promise of action to enable the principal water and sewerage authorities to embark promptly and economically upon a continuing program to provide services in their areas by 1978. Honourable members will recall the disdain with which the Prime Minister was treated when in earlier years as Leader of the Opposition he tried to get the then Government to accept a share of the responsibility of providing essential sewerage services. 
There has been some criticism because the funds being made available in the first year are by way of loan funds rather than nonrepayable grants. Despite this, there are a number of advantages to be derived from making the initial funds available quickly as loans. I will come back to these later. It must be emphasised that the $3 Om provided for under this Bill is simply the initial or urgency funds to enable the sewerage construction authorities to incorporate backlog projects in the 1974 work programs. The assistance to be provided in the 1974-75 Budget will comprise both non-repayable grants and long term loan moneys. When funds are made available on a non-repayable grant basis to develop services, consideration should be given to the fact that unless the charges to the users of those services include the cost of capital those users are subsidised in a quite arbitrary and inequitable way because the subsidy is not related to need. Demand for those services may 'be artificially inflated and this can result in misallocation of resources. The Coombs task force pointed this out in the 'Review of the Continuing Expenditure Policies of the Previous Government' at pages 26 and 27. The report stated: 
In many public investment projects it is feasible to impose charges for the services provided. Generally it is desirable that such prices should reflect the costs of providing services although there are circumstances where economic principles justify a departure from this general rule. It is nevertheless important that criteria should be established to guide those who set prices for public enterprises so that waste may be avoided. 
It is the functions of prices to allocate resources to purposes where they best satisfy the demands of the consumer. If services are under-priced in relation to the cost (including capital) of providing them, it may well become necessary to divert resources from other purposes to satisfy the demand for them. Where services are provided with capital equipment in large units it may sometimes be good sense, once the equipment has been established, to provide the services at a price which will ensure its full usage even if this is less than the full economic cost. However, it must be remembered that this exception will no longer apply when duplication or extension of the capital equipment is required by demand expanded by the low prices initially set to encourage full .use of the original equipment  .  
Prices of services provided as a result of public investment are not only important in the allocation of resources. If services are provided at less than cost then pricing represents subsidies for particular sections of the community at the cost of taxpayers generally. In some cases, of course, the consumers of a particular public utility service can in a general sense be identified with the community as a whole, e.g., postal services, telecommunications, electricity. However, it should be remembered that, although all sections of the community may use these services, the degree to which they do so differs. 
Sometimes these subsidies have adverse social effects on income distribution in that they tend to favour those already well off. In other cases they are ambiguous or uncertain in that they appear to favour certain groups without conscious Government decision or public scrutiny - sometimes simply as the result of cumulative bureaucratic or political inertia, reflecting the difficulties of removing any existing benefit. 
Even if the funds provided are raised by taxation they nonetheless have a cost - the opportunity cost of not having the resources employed in alternative uses. Bond rate can be 'regarded as an understatement of the cost of the capital. Concessional finance provided to the States may not result in the concessions being passed on to users with the consequences I have already mentioned. The result can be disguised as general financial assistance to the 
States. The terms of financial assistance to the States and their authorities for particular purposes should not be determined in isolation but as an integral element of the totality of financial agreements. The 'polluter pays' principle argues in the direction of full charging of users of services. If there is a case for giving special assistance to particular needy groups in the community, or particular areas, there are more direct, more economical and more equitable means for this than by granting concessional finance for particular categories of service. 
Time therefore is needed to carry out a detailed examination of the indebtedness of the sewerage authorities, to prepare a critical analysis and to determine an order of priorities for non-repayable grant money. This Bill seeks to get things started and is an interim or stop gap measure only, pending the determination of the steering committee to which the Minister for Urban and Regional Development referred in his second reading speech and which has been set up to formulate a national sewerage program to overcome the backlog. It is important to note that the members of this committee have been selected because of their expertise, not because of their State of origin, and that the long term program will be worked out in close co-operation with the States. 
The submissions that were received from the States following the Prime Minister's request on 16 December 1972 for information on their sewerage backlog, together with other investigations completed to date, clearly show that the backlog is not simply a question of premises or allotments not being connected to a reticulated sewer; it is equally a problem of adequate treatment works and carrier mains as well as an increased rate of household connections. In practice, the sewerage system is an interdependent network of pipes, pumping stations and treatment facilities. It is not feasible to upgrade any one segment without corresponding amplification throughout the balance of the system. The Australian Government is determined to make available to the States the financial assistance needed to eliminate the backlog of unsewered lots and homes in the principal Australian cities in the shortest feasible period. 
Because it has not been possible to investigate fully the magnitude and the scope of the problem, or to decide on the appropriate terms of financial assistance to the States for the long term program, this Government has decided to push ahead with the initial phase of a somewhat limited program for 1973-74. The general question of the backlog has been divided into 2 parts - one being the immediate issue of finance, which this Bill provides, and the other being an overall program extending over at least the next 5 years and underpinned by a range of urban policies formulated by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
The initial 1973-74 sewerage assistance is based on an apportionment in accordance with each States1 relative proportion of the national population, the number of people whose dwellings are unsewered and the 1973-74 accelerated program shortfall. The mean value of these 3 parameters was adopted as a first basis for apportionment.  Mr Speaker,  I have before me a table which sets out a summary showing the sewerage backlog in terms of population and buildings. I did not have this document prepared in time to show it to the Opposition. But I ask for leave to incorporate the table in Hansard. 
The Acting Minister for Education will recall that last week he announced that the Australian Government had decided that a new medical school would be established in Newcastle, centred on the Royal Newcastle Hospital, to receive its first students in 1977, and that special grants would be made to the University of Newcastle in 1974 and 1975 subject to the agreement of the New South Wales Government to establish the school. I ask: Has his attention been drawn to a subsequent statement by the New South Wales Minister for Health in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly to the effect that the entire financing of the proposed Newcastle medical school would be the responsibility of the Australian Government and that the New South Wales Government will come into the picture only to the extent that it will become, as desired by Canberra, some sort of administering agency for the Australian Government and that all the finance will come from Canberra? Is this a fact? Further, will the Acting Minister liaise with the New South Wales Minister for Health to see that everything possible is done to ensure that the school will be ready for its first intake of students in 1977? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Housing and Construction been drawn to Press reports that the New South Wales Minister for Housing,  Mr McGinty,  has made a special $4.1m grant to help people on low incomes to buy their own homes at less than 6 per cent interest. Is it a fact that  Mr McGinty  said the money had been made available to help people on moderate incomes to obtain a home loan because of the effect of Government restrictions on housing finance? Can the Minister explain why it seems necessary for a State government to help people who appear to be disadvantaged by restrictions imposed by the Federal Government? Further, I ask the Minister: What is the responsibility of the Australian Government towards the provision of this type of housing finance? 
In this cognate debate this afternoon I want to speak in support of the Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill. This Government is committed to a policy of uplifting the status and financial capacity of local government. It has received a clear mandate from the Australian people to do this. It has the support of the Federal Organisation of Local Government Bodies and the Australian Council of Local Government Associations in its efforts to bring about the reforms outlined in the proposed referendum. It is all very well for members of the Opposition to decry the Government's efforts to strengthen and uplift the whole fabric of local government, but it was during their 23 years of administration that local government had placed on it the intolerable debt burden it now carries. Throughout local government for many years there has been a growing and expanding call for direct financial assistance from the central tax collecting authority. If local government is to play the greater and more effective role that the people of Australia require it to play, then the effective influence that local government exercises in relation to fundamental decision making affecting its activities must be increased. Such an increase will represent a most significant step towards true federalism or true local participation in public affairs and, indeed, true decentralisation of government. 
This Government secured the representation of local government at the Constitution Convention. The Australian Grants Commission has been expanded. Local government has readily formed itself into regional groupings and these groupings have been recognised by this Government for the purposes of the Australian Grants Commission Act. Presently applications are being processed by the regional groupings for submission for consideration for grants by the Australian Grants Commission. Under the Australian assistance plan special aid is being made available to local government authorities to enable them more effectively to provide health and welfare services in their communities. 
Let us look again at the comparison of State and local government borrowings since 1947. In that year the total debt of local government authorities was $140m or about 7 per cent of total State government debt. In June 1971 on preliminary figures provided by the Government Statistician, the debt had risen to $l,730m or almost 15 per cent of estimated total State government debt at that date. In the 24 years local government authorities' debt had increased twelvefold compared with an increase of not quite sixfold in the State governments' total outstanding debt. Yet after that period of enormous growth in the range and cost of local government responsibilities its voice in the place where the nation's broad public borrowing programs were determined was still as it was at the beginning, that is, nil. 
If the existing financial agreement from the 1920s were being drawn up now, local government most certainly would have a say. Under present conditions, local government is left largerly to fend for itself, and it is no wonder that the cost of borrowing bears so heavily at an increasing rate on their budgets. The picture varies from State to State and as between individual authorities, but the fact is that in 1970-71 the overall interest payment by local government authorities was equivalent to about 12 per cent of their revenue. Interest payments plus capital repayments in the same year totalled $ 177.5m or about 25 per cent of revenues. If the Australian Government were able to borrow on behalf of local government authorities the servicing costs would be appreciably lower. What has happened is that local government has been squeezed between the exanding expectations of society and the limits of its resources. Ratepayers are being squeezed between increasing council rates and soaring land valuations. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  yesterday referred to the New South Wales Local Government Assistance Commission. He suggested that bodies such as this would be better equipped to assess the needs of councils and the financial assistance they should receive from the Federal Treasury through the States. He really means that local government should continue to remain the captive of the States. If one were to examine the $4m originally made available to New South Wales by the Local Government Assistance Commission in its initial year one would find that this amount more or less equated the rates that would have been payable by the New South Wales Government on properties owned by that Government in that year if rates had been payable on those properties. It had little relation to the needs of local government in that year. Since that initial year there has been a gradual increase in the amount of money made available by the New South Wales Treasury. I repeat that even though the New South Wales Local Government Assistance Commission carries out . a survey of local government needs in that State, the amount that is made available is based on the original amount of $4m. 
Does the Leader of the Country Party suggest that the Australian Grants Commission is less able to assess financial needs in Australia than the New South Wales Local Government Assistance Commission? Why did not the governments of which he was a member in the many years in which they were in office, move to provide direct assistance to local government? If local government is to widen its present revenue collecting base, at least in New South Wales, the State Government must amend the Local Government Act of 1919. It has not done so. It has not incorporated or legislated for the recommendations in relation to financing local government that were made by the 1966 royal commission into local government finance. 
Under the present system of local government, revenue is raised from ratepayers only. But only some of the people are ratepayers. All of the people are taxpayers and all of the taxpayers participate in the benefits and services that are provided by local government. In recent years there has been a resurgence of public interest in the 'activities and decision making processes right at local level - at local council level. Anyone who has had experience of unsewered suburbs, poor health services, poor planning procedures, inadequate local transport, neglected environmental standards, and the shortage of playing fields, community centres and opportunities for culture and recreation can understand why, because for too long local government has been a vassal of the States. We have heard the proposition that all that needs to be done is to give more money to the States and to leave it to them to disburse it to local government. In other words, business as usual. That proposition ignores and obscures the real issues. 
Firstly, it is a mistake to assume that the question is about money alone, though much more money is desperately needed by local government. Secondly, the question is very much one of balancing available resources and the flexibility in the creation and application of those resources. Thirdly, it is a question of the ultimate status of local government itself, whether it as a level of government closest to the peoples daily needs should remain a vassal and a captive of the States - a poor relation - or whether it should be given its proper status as a true and participating partner in the federal system. The Australian Government does not seek to deny, limit or reduce the powers of the States, but it certainly does seek to uplift local government and restore to it its proper status as a participating partner in a true federal system. 
Local government throughout the nation supports the proposition of this referendum. At Hobart in November 1973 the Australian Council of Local Government Associations resolved to support the efforts of this Government towards local government. Councils are committed to the support of the coming referendum. I want to refer briefly to a statement that was made by  Mr Graham  Miles, the secretary of the Australian Council of Local 
Government Associations, on the radio program 'AM' of 21 February this year.  Mr Miles  said: 
We think that the proposals from the Australian Government are to the advantage of local government considerably without affecting adversely anyone else. 
On the question of cutting off local government from private finance,  Mr Miles  said: 
We don't believe that that's the result at all. At the moment local government is subject to the Loan Council, but we don't have any part in the deliberations of the Loan Council. The difference is that we'll be sitting round the table when the decisions are made, instead of sitting outside. Even for a major capital works which might last for SO or a hundred years, the Council borrows money through probably a15 year term and has to renegotiate the loan time and time again. Under the Government's proposals we will be able to do as the States do- borrow money for a 53 year term. Now to the ratepayer, to the man in the street, this will be quite a big saving. 
This is the access to financing which this Government seeks to give to local government. 
The attitude of the Queensland Government towards local government access to the Loan Council and towards the subject of this referendum proposal is one almost of animosity. I am informed by a reliable authority that the great democrat, the Premier of Queensland, has told councils in that State that should they receive any direct financial assistance from the Australian Grants Commission, there will be a corresponding reduction in the amount of financial aid which they receive from the Queensland Government. 
For the benefit of the honourable member for Petrie I would like to refer to a report published in the Brisbane Courier Mail' of 23 February 1974. 
At Wondai. The newspaper report is titled: 'Premier's "veiled threat " criticised'. The Secretary of the Queensland Local Government Association,  Mr Max  Armstrong, said that it was quite out of place- 
The obsession which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has for certain aspects of foreign affairs and domestic activities is well known to honourable members in this House and we make allowances for it. We make allowances for his tedious contributions. The honourable member mentioned housing construction. He probably does not know that at present Australia is building more houses than ever in its history. But, as 1 said, we make allowances. He mentioned intimidation by union officials. I wonder whether the honourable member could tell us - he seems to be a man in the know - who intimidated  Sir John  Dunlop into resigning from the board of the Bank of New South Wales after his statement in support of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. He will probably tell us that somebody gave him some brotherly advice. I hope that on some later occasion he will have an opportunity to answer that question.  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth of Australia in her Speech on 28 February said: 
My Government believes the economy is basically strong and buoyant. Nevertheless, it regards inflation as a most urgent domestic problem and will continue its efforts to contain it. 
It believes the many anti-inflationary measures it has already taken are having an important restraining effect. 
This Government will not resort to creating unemployment, suffering and personal hardship as a means of trying to combat inflation. We will never do that. Yet that was the policy which was consistently followed by the previous Liberal-Country Party coalition Government - slug the worker, put people out of work, but do not touch the financial barons. We have revalued the national currency several times. In fact it is now one of the hardest currencies in the world. We have introduced tariff cuts. We have established the Prices Justification Tribunal which is performing a very useful and necessary function. We have established a variable deposits requirement scheme with the Reserve Bank on overseas borrowings and subsequently we increased the requirement from 25 per cent to 33i per cent on overseas borrowings. We have instituted expenditure cuts as recommended in the Coombs report. Other monetary control measures have been taken. All these actions are having an anti-inflationary effect. Yet all of these actions have been vigorously and steadfastly opposed by the Opposition parties, including the honourable member for Mackellar who cries about some sort of inflation. 
The first Budget of the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  when he was the Treasurer in 1971 was very much con cerned to suppress the then existing inflation. In the event unemployment rose to unacceptable levels, but more significantly the foundation for 1973 increases in inflation was laid in the election year of 1972 when that government, whose members are now in opposition, sat back and did nothing effectively to curb the huge inflow of capital which created such difficult problems in 1973 on the liquidity side. Everyone knows the role that the Country Party played at that time in relation to the exchange rate when it literally stood over its weak partner, the Liberal Party, at a time when even the dogs were barking that the currency should be appreciated and overseas borrowings restricted. But as 1 said, the Country Party stood over the Liberal Party and the Government was paralysed. 
Given rising world -price levels since December 1972, the injection of price increases in our economy through rising import prices has been almost totally eliminated by the policies that this Government has followed in regard to tariffs, overseas borrowing and currency exchange rates. In the period since this Government came to office we have seen increases in average weekly earnings, a strengthening of the economy, company after company reporting record profits and a large increase in employment opportunities. When this Government sought opportunities to control prices, again the Opposition opposed us. Everyone knows that price control is a vital tool in the fiscal management of the economy. On this occasion, as on every other occasion on which we have moved to combat inflation, we had outright opposition from the Liberal and Country parties because the people whom they represent - the wealthy, the overseas corporations, the industrialists and the absentee farmers - all benefit from inflation. They have no right whatsoever to come into this place and decry the anti-inflationary measures taken by this Government. They have forgone those rights by their absolute opposition to every financial measure that we have undertaken. 
On 8 December 1973 the people rejected the prices question. But on 8 December the people said very strongly and clearly that price control is a province of the States. Be that as it may. But they also said even more strongly and clearly that it is the responsibility of the States to utilise their existing powers to control prices and the people expect the 
States to carry out that responsibility. That is what the people said and it is of no use leaders of the Liberal and Country parties coming in here and bewailing increasing price levels when their colleagues who control the treasuries in Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland refuse to use the price control powers that they already have. They have a responsibility to control inflation also. 
Then this week, to surpass everything, we heard the Leader of the Opposition expound his anti-inflationary policy. What a sham it is. First the Opposition says: 'Reduce public spending'. Every time we move to do this we do not get their support but their vehement and almost violent opposition to any suggested cuts. One does not have to go past the current hue and cry over the superphosphate bounty to see this. The pertinent question to be asked is: Where should public spending be reduced? The Opposition should specify where. That is the test of the sincerity of its proposition. It should specify what items it wants reduced. Maybe the Opposition wants expenditure on education reduced. I suppose this would be one, because this is one area where the Liberal Party was left by itself when the Country Party crossed the floor to vote with the Government on education grants legislation and the Schools Commission Bill. I think that we can fairly say that the Liberal Party could be expected to reduce spending on education. But on what other items? On pensions, social welfare or defence? Let the Opposition be specific and name the items which it wants deleted. But the Opposition will not because its proposition is only a front. 
Next the Opposition says that the Public Service is too large. I do not know that members of the Opposition have refused the extra secretarial services that they have received in Canberra since the change in government or in their own electorates since we became the Government. Perhaps the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  can tell me whether the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  have refused the additional secretarial staff which they have been allocated. 
The Leader of .the House has informed me that they have asked for more. What greater proof does one want than that? I recall seeing some statistics con  tained in an answer to a question on notice which showed the overtime being paid to staff of members of the Opposition parties, and in particular to the Leader of the Opposition and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. Would not this be the first place to set about reducing expenditure on the Public Service? Let them set an example on this matter. But again let them specify the other savings to be made. Let them specify which officers they want fired and how much this will mean as a proportion of the overall Budget. They cannot do this because they have not thought it through that far, and they do not believe it anyway. 
Members of the Opposition then talk about reducing taxation by $600m. Would not that mean an injection of $600m into the economy, and was not their policy in government one of increasing taxes and not reducing them? Was not the present income tax schedule about which they now complain devised by their Government many many years ago and reaffirmed Budget after Budget? To reduce taxation in the mid-fiscal year would be to add to an already unsatisfied demand. Is that their anti-inflationary policy? Again I say it is a sham because they do not believe it themselves. They say we should reduce interest rates. Well, higher interest rates exist because a quarter of a century of Liberal-Country Party administrations never thought to clothe the Federal Government with proper powers to manage the financial affairs of this country and with powers to control the lending of financial institutions. If they had done this there would have been alternatives to increasing the bond rate. We could have had qualitative lending controls. It will be interesting to see what the Opposition does in another place when the Financial Corporation Bill is being debated. No doubt members of the Opposition in that place will oppose it and in this place they will continue in the sham of purporting to have an anti-inflationary policy. 
In effect their so-called anti-inflationary policy is a no policy - a non-policy. Their position is this: 'I'm all right Jack' and 'Get what you can while you can'. What greater proof of that could there be than the irresponsible harebrained proposition put forward by the Leader of the Country Party in the last few days? I am not sure whether I am correct in referring to him by that title, or whether it should be the Leader of the Alliance Party or the National Party. Anyway, his proposition that 
Australia's oil prices should be increased is irresponsible and hare-brained. He is reported in the 'Australian Financial Review' of yesterday - and I understand that he has reiterated this since - in the following way: 
He did not think the return Australian oil producers were getting was just in light of international prices. 
This was the Leader of the Country Party or the Alliance Party or the National Country Party, whatever one chooses to call it. This is a man who uttered those dire predictions as to the effect on primary producers of the adjustment of 1.7c per gallon petrol subsidy just a few months ago. Now he and his Party, supported by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  I think, are proposing an increase in fuel prices simply to overfill the coffers of oil producers still further. 
What about the interests of primary producers now? At last the Country Party has come to life. A Senate election campaign is coming up. I read in the 'Countryman' in Victoria that the Country Party needs campaign funds and the attitude of the Country Party on the oil and mineral issue is wholly predictable. As I said, there is a Senate election campaign to be financed. But I will not be so uncharitable as to say that there is a direct relationship. But time will tell and the sooner the amendments to the Electoral Act are made the better, so that the Australian people may know who the donors to the political parties are. 
I can think of no more irresponsible proposition than that of increasing fuel prices simply because the world market has changed. I would like to quote from the editorial which appeared in today's 'Australian Financial Review'. It states: 
At best it is yet another example of the sloppy thinking and the dependence on slanted outside advice which has sometimes characterised the Opposition parties in the past year - and from which, the Liberal Party is at least making strenuous efforts to escape. 
From a national standpoint, or, indeed, from any rational economic viewpoint at all, it is glaringly evident that there is no reason hurriedly to accept the oil companies' case for a major rise in crude prices or for that matter  Mr Anthony's  alliance with them on this issue. 
Further on the article states: 
It is really quite shocking that a political leader should, without any careful qualifications or statistical back-up, come out as  Mr Anthony  has in favour of a massive price increase. 
Politically, it is even more difficult to understand in the context of a party presumably devoted to reducing costs in the rural sector how  Mr Anthony  can come out for unnecessarily higher petrol costs. 
This article is entitled very aptly: 'Country Party foolery'. The 'Australian Financial Review' is a journal well respected but not well known for its pro-Government views. Is this new Country Party manifesto on oil prices a warning to primary producers of the divided interests which are to be served by the Alliance Party, National Alliance, Country Party or whatever you like to call it? It has had to change its name. It is prepared to inflict unnecessary additional costs on primary producers in order to produce further inflated profits for the oil and mineral corporations. I remind honourable members of the recent support of the Leader of the Country Party for a further increase in the price of steel, with the impact that would have on manufacturers of agricultural machinery, steel products, fencing and steel posts and on builders. I repeat that notice has been given that the Country Party is prepared to sacrifice the incomes of people in the rural industries in order to serve its overseas masters and supporters. There is no getting away from that. 
Let us look at the profits position of the Esso-BHP partnership. Australia has the cheapest crude oil in the world. Esso-BHP had the benefit of the expertise of  Mr Lewis  Weeks, the world's most highly regarded petrogeologist, in its search for oil. He told EssoBHP exactly where to find oil and it  Went  there and got it. No other company has found oil so easily. This Government also has had the benefit of the advice of  Mr Weeks  in respect of the north-west shelf field. Esso-BHP has the cheapest oil supply in the world. When the excise duty is deducted, the net return is still one of the highest in the world. No oil company in the world has its market as close to its source of supply as Esso-BHP has - virtually piping from the well to the bowser. Bass Strait oil yields from 50 per cent to 55 per cent motor spirit as compared with the 20 per  cent  to 25 per cent gained from imported crude oil. Our crude oil is amongst the highest quality and richest in the world. I ask honourable members to remember that the price set for Esso-BHP oil in 1970 was a high price, given  the  market conditions of the time. The deal was made, and the Government expects  it to  be adhered to by Esso-BHP, just as the Government would be expected to do if the positions were reversed. Recently  Mr McNeill  of BHP said that oil was playing an increasing part in his company's profit results and that the profits from oil were up 43 per cent in the last 12 months. 
There are approximately 4 million motor cars, 750,000 trucks, tractors and commercial vehicles and 250,000 motor cycles in Australia. If oil prices are to be increased, the operators of all those units will suffer unnecessarily from increased costs and there will be a flow-on. If the price of Australian oil were increased to the level of imported oils, the added cost burden would be enormous. For every $1 a barrel increase in the price of Australian oil the added cost burden would be almost $80m. If the price of Australian oil is raised to the price of imported oil the increased cost to the Australian community will be in the region of $480m. The course that the Country Party would like to see followed has been made quite clear and reiterated by its Leader. The Country Party wants the oil price increased. It wants higher profits. And we all know that 62 per cent of the minerals industry in Australia is overseas owned or controlled. The Country Party's proposition of increased oil prices should be exposed in all its irresponsibility and avarice. A warning has been given to primary producers. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I wish to touch on the role that this Government has played in respect of local government and the efforts we have made to uplift the status of local government. Since coming into office we have enlarged the activities of the Australian Grants Commission and established regional bodies. Through those regional bodies various councils are now in the process of lodging their applications for assessment and submission to the Australian Grants Commission in expectation of a grant. The funds will be made available in the 1974-75 Budget. After listening to members of the Country Party cry about poorer quality municipal services, one would think that they would be to the forefront in seeing that municipal and shire councils were given every assistance. 
This Government has fought to put to the Australian people the proposition that the Constitution, which was formulated 70 years ago, be amended to enable local government bodies to have access to the Australian Loan Council and to much longer loan terms - up to 53 years- and to borrow at the bond rate, a lower rate of interest than they are presently paying, and also to empower the Federal 
Government to make financial assistance available directly to local government units. That great democrat, the Premier of Queensland, as I understand it, has told local government authorities that if they accept assistance from the Australian Government their State Government assistance will be reduced correspondingly. (Quorum formed.) 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have been misrepresented on 2 points by the honourable member for Shortland. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Does the honourable member wish to make a personal explanation? 
I cannot help but feel amazed at the contribution of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  particularly when he said that he could not understand why education, transport or regional planning should not be matters of national interest. This statement came from a man who was a Minister in the former Government. It illustrates his complete lack of understanding of matters of. national interest. As I said, he was a Minister in the former Government. It is easy to understand why he is no longer a Minister in a government. The honourable member for Curtin said that if we were to give him the research facilities, he could pick out areas of expenditure which could be deleted. I should like to ask a question of the honourable member: Why did he not do that when he was a Minister and when he had the facilities and the power? They are just words. As far as the Opposition is concerned, nothing is new. In this third week of the second session of the twenty-eighth Parliament, I am sorry to say that we have heard from the Opposition a continuation of the same old hackneyed, repetitive regurgitation of half truths, untruths and cliches as we heard throughout the first session of this Parliament last year. Whatever the Opposition has to say is old hat; there is nothing new. 
In the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) which is now under debate there are 31 headings totalling a proposed expenditure of $168,575,000. At the beginning, I should like to say something about the Opposition's continued attack on the officers of the Australian Public Service. Everyone who has participated in any level of Government activity, be it local government, State government or Federal government, knows that no government service could function without the dedication and responsibility of its officers. Everyone knows that at each of those levels of government there are many dedicated, hard working men and women who give a lifetime of service to the respective levels of responsibility. But the Opposition cannot have it both ways. Honourable members opposite have set out on a course to berate and abuse the Australian Public Service. After all, in the main, it is a child of their own creation. It has been almost onequarter of a century since we have had the responsibility of appointing fresh officers to the Service. However, as I said earlier and as I keep repeating, this argument is not new. In 1949, the catchcry of their former leader was a reduction in the number of public servants. I can recall the figure. He was going to reduce the Public Service across the board by 10,000 officers. The Public Service in June 1949 numbered 141,716 officers. I should like to quote from the 'Joint Opposition Policy - 1949' in which the Leader of the Opposition parties at that time said: 
We believe that the rapid growth of Socialist ideas and practices in Australia is transferring far too many people from productive to administrative activities, and that this represents a grave danger to our future. 
These are the same words as we have been hearing over the last several months. He went on to say: 
At the same time, we recognise that there must be an adequate force of government servants. That is why we continue to believe in a sufficient, wellorganised, highly-trained, competent, and well-paid Civil Service. 
What we propose to do is to reorganise the departments, some of which have grown up rather like Topsy; to rationalise their work; to cut out overlapping; to reduce red tape; to simplify procedures. 
He went on to say: 
There are many thousands of true Civil Servants who would welcome such a move. . . . 
That is what he said he was going to do, but when his followers went out of office almost a quarter of a century later they had succeded in increasing the Public Service from 141,716 officers to 246,876 officers, an increase of 74.2 per cent or 105,160 officers. So, in the course of reducing the numbers in the Public Service by 10,000, they managed to increase it by 105,000 officers. Heaven knows what might happen now if honourable members opposite set about decreasing the Service. If they said they were going to decrease it by 20,000 officers now, we could probably expect over the next 3 years an increase of 200,000 officers. 
Really, what has been happening is that the Opposition parties have been indulging in a plagiarism of  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, their former leader. If honourable members opposite want to be in a position to criticise the officers of the Public Service, let us have a look at their own backyards first. What have honourable member's opposite done since we came into office? They have not refused to accept the additional staff that they sought. That assistance was granted. In fact the Leader of the House, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  said recently in this place that, to the contrary, the Opposition had asked for still more assistance. I am speaking from memory but I think that the figure for the personal staff of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  is probably the highest in the building yet he is leading the attack on the Public Service. 
The Opposition has asked for more floor space for its officers and is seeking still more floor space, better furnishings and better equipment in the electorates. The Opposition is not complaining about those things, or refusing 'them or rejecting them. We all remember very well what happened soon after the 1972 election. I refer to the terrible duel, the epic which went on day after day, about who was going to occupy that room across the corridor from the Opposition's entrance to this chamber. Was it to be the official Deputy 
Leader of the Opposition or the other  deputy  leader of the opposition, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)?  Who was entitled to that room? These were the kinds of things in which the Opposition was interested. Now members of the Opposition have the effrontery to come into this place and talk about reducing the Australian Public Service. If they are genuine and sincere they should start in their own backyard. They should set about reducing their own staffs and giving back some of the equipment that they so willingly accepted. 
Let us consider the period when the Opposition was in office and the Australian Public Service was under its jurisdiction. I refer the House to the 146th report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. Referring to the Department of Air, I quote from paragraph 11 on page 9 of that report: 
During the 1960s the accounting workload increased progressively, outstripping the staff capacity. 
Further down in that paragraph the report states: 
We were informed that .the experiment had not been very successful, owing to the inexperience of the staff who were unfamiliar with the complicated nature of the Master Provisioning Document and the source documents, and with stores accounting procedures. The witnesses representing the Department added that training of the extra staff had been very difficult during overtime. 
The Committee, in its conclusion, summed up by saying: 
From the evidence it seems that it took 2 years for the Department to have additional positions created and filled in the Billings cell. This appears to the Committee to be quite an excessive period, having regard to the evidence that during those 2 years inexperienced staff from other sections worked overtime and the Department did not consider this overtime scheme to be successful. 
The then Ministers who are now in Opposition, including the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Curtin, are responsible for what is contained in this report because the Public Service was under their control. These are some of the shortcomings. I refer now to page 27 of this report which deals with the Department of Civil Aviation. Paragraph 68 states: 
The evidence shows that the frauds were perpetrated during the period from July 1970 to February 1971 by a number of officers within the salaries section in collusion with other participants. It appears that a significant factor in the frauds was the failure of departmental officers to observe internal controls and checks specified in Treasury Regulations, Treasury Directions and Departmental Instructions 69. The Department pointed out that the irregularities were facilitated by the increased volume of work, and the general inexperience of the staff within the salary section. The Committee believes that the Department has been at fault in failing to ensure that the section was adequately staffed, that effective internal control procedures were in existence and that existing control procedures were being observed. 
Referring to the Department of Air, at page 46 the report states: 
The witness said that the Department was not sure how it would tackle the task, but that it would have to be done on an ad hoc basis. 
Paragraph 121 of the report states: 
We were informed that an increase in staff establishment would be required at Central Office to conduct the checking of billings considered necessary. 
Since I became a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts in the middle of last year, running throughout most of the inquiries of the Committee has been the recurrent theme of a shortage of staff, undertrained staff and inexperienced staff. Now the Opposition is saying that we should reduce the staff. The Opposition parties, during their term of office, could not supply departments with the quality of staff required. Massive defalcations, overcharges, undercharges and non-collection of accounts are dealt with in this report. All this occurred during the administration of the Opposition parties. Now they say that the Public Service should be reduced further but they could not provide the quality of staff required when they were responsible. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was remarking about the professional political pessimists on the other side of the chamber - the members of the Opposition. The one thing that they just cannot accommodate themselves to is the increasing prosperity of this nation following the change of government in 1972. (Quorum formed). I thank the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  for his care and attention to me in creating an audience. It is unfortunate that there was only one member of the Liberal Party of Australia in the chamber at the time he called for a quorum. I am grateful to him for calling his colleagues into the chamber to listen to what I have to say this evening. 
I disagree with the statement that the honourable member for Barker was asleep. I cannot say that. As I said earlier this evening, there is nothing new as far as the Opposition is concerned. The calling for quorums is something that happens on every occasion on which I speak. I move on now to what the Government has done for local government. Despite the bitter opposition of the Liberal and Country parties, the Government is determined to restore local .government to its proper status as a full and true partner in the federal system. The Australian Grants Commission gives councils the opportunity, through regional bodies, to present a case for financial assistance to the (Federal Treasurer. Is it not strange that the Australian Country Party - .the Party that has so much to say about the poor quality of public services in rural towns - has been the most vocal in opposition to local government receiving assistance direct from the Government. That great democrat - the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  - has told local government that it has  to  make up its mind whether it is going to accept finance from the Australian Government or the Queensland Government. In this respect I quote from no less a distinguished journal than the 'South Burnett Times', which incorporates the 'Kingaroy Herald' - right from the heart of Bjelke-Petersen territory. 
 It is .good stuff. The article points out that the Premier of Queensland had asked the 17 local authority delegates at a local government association conference on just what side of the fence they were standing in relation to the proposed Commonwealth Grants Commission. The article states: 
He said Councils had to decide whether they wanted to deal direct with Canberra under the proposed Grants Commission, or through the traditional channels of State Government. 
The article points out that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  went on to say: 
I have asked the State president of the Queensland Local Government Association to have discussions with me in relation to where Local Authorities stand. 
That came from a person who has so much to say about intimidation. Following that came statements from 2 very important members of local government in Queensland - Max Armstrong, the Secretary of the Local Government Association, and no less a personage than the Mayor of Bundaberg. The Mayor of Bundaberg said that the Premier was inclined to have handed out a threat.  Mr Armstrong  said that for the Premier to introduce politics at the conference was quite out of place. Those are the actions of a gentleman who talks about centralism. We have centralism in Australia - State centralism - and it is based in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne. The attitude of the State Liberal and Country parties, as well as their Federal bodies, is simply to keep local government in the States as complete vassals of the State governments. What we ought to be looking at really is the bureaucracies that exist in the States of Queensland under the great gerrymander, of New South Wales under the Liberal-Country Party - even the Minister for Local Government is the leader of the Country Party in that State - and of Victoria. 
What the forthcoming referendum will do will be to ask the people whether they agree to the Constitution being amended so that local government will have the right of access to the Australian Loan Council and will have the right to receive direct from the Federal Treasury the .grants of assistance that may be determined or may be made available by the Federal Treasury. That is all the referendum will ask for. But the great democrats in the Country Party again want to deny to the people the right to express an opinion on that question. That is all they want to do. Our frightened friends in the Country Party want to deny to the people the right to express an opinion on whether or not local government ought to have access to the Australian Loan Council. I do not know what they are afraid of. 
In recent times the Country Party has been making so many changes in line with its history that I suppose in a way that attitude can be understood. I have a cartoon in front of me  -  I am sorry that I am not able to have it reproduced in Hansard - .the caption of which I want to read. It has a man milking a cow and on the bucket is printed 'nationalist interests'. Behind him is another farmer with another bucket and on that bucket is printed 'farmers' interests'. Behind him is another farmer with another bucket that has labour interests' printed on it. Last of all is a teeny weeny farmer with another bucket that has 'Australia's interests' printed on it. That is where Australia's interests rank today as far as the Opposition parties are concerned. The cartoon caption reads 'Australia's Place in the Procession'. The cartoon is from no less a publication than the 'Bulletin'. Underneath the cartoon is the following comment: 
Party Politics have produced a new Federal Country Party, devoted like the others, to purely sectional interests. 
The date of this publication is 5 February 1920. So just 54 years ago the Country Party was in the process of devoting itself to new sectional interests and to rearranging itself and, as has been said, it produced a new Federal Country Party. Where do Australia's interests come in? Australia's interests are last, as they are now. That is the only way in which the Country Party has not changed. I cannot tell the people of Australia what its name is going to be next week, but 1 wish I knew so that I could make some sort of comment about it. 
The catch cry of the Country Party has always been: 'We socialise the losses and capitalise the profits'. If a man is unfortunate enough to be a failure in a city or urban area - if he does not make a go of his business - that is bad luck as far as the Country Party is concerned. But if a man does not make a go of it in a country area the Country Party thinks the taxpayer should foot the bill. The great calamity howlers from the Country Party - the prophets of doom - know no other catch cry than to talk about pessimism. The thing is they cannot accommodate themselves to the increasing prosperity that has come to this country under the Labor Government. The other day in the middle of question time the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  saw fit to interject: They have never had it so good'. He made that interjection; we on this side of the House did not make it. 
I am pleased the Minister agrees, and 1 am pleased that members of the Country Party agree with what I have had to say. As I have said, they see - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! If the honourable member for Kennedy raises another frivolous point of order I will name him. 
As I have said, the greatest difficulty that the political pessimists opposite have today is in trying to accommodate themselves to the increasing prosperity in Australia. They are continually going back to their electorates and trying to tell the people how bad things are, but the people know that things are really improving. Other action that has been taken by this Government in relation to local government is the provision of $30m for sewerage extension services inside Australia. The $30m provided by this Government is the commencement of a program that will mean, we hope, in 7 years time the total elimination of non-sewered areas in the major cities and the major provincial towns. I am pleased to say that in my electorate $1.2m (has been made available to the Hunter District Water Board to enable the Water Board to carry out works at Blacksmiths and Fennell Bay. lt has taken a change in government - to an Australian Labor Party Government - to bring recognition of the need to provide funds for local government and to provide these kinds of funds for sewerage construction authorities for what is a basic, essential health service. I want the people of Australia to know that after 23 years - almost a quarter of a century - of the Opposition's administration they are now suddenly finding out the deficiencies - 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to charges made last evening on the television program "This Day Tonight' that the New South Wales Government is hostile to distributing special Federal funds for disadvantaged schools on the basis of need as required by both the Karmel report and the Australian Government? Are the charges correct that the New South Wales Government is allowing disadvantaged schools only $1,500 to $2,000 per school from Federal funds and that the New South Wales Government refuses to undertake the research to guarantee that schools in low income areas actually get the benefit of the funds provided for them by the Australian Government? Will the Minister ensure that the needs of school children from low income families are fully protected by the Australian Government? Finally, is the Minister able to make public the list of disadvantaged schools as supplied by the New South Wales Government? 
I ask the Postmaster-General: Has his attention been drawn to recent Press reports in Newcastle that, following the introduction of FM radio, many thousands of television sets and antennas will have to be modifield to receive channels 3 and 5 in the Hunter region? Is this a fact? Will all sets be affected? Is it expected that the cost per set of such  modifications will be in excess of $55 as claimed in the reports? Further, will his Department make technical advisers available at the time of changeover to explain the adjustments so as to protect the public against exorbitant and unnecessary charges by television service firms? What proposals are being formulated for a separate licence fee for FM radio users? 
We all know the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for his trendy, friendly approach to modern day problems, for his impartiality, for his clear and balanced thought, for his determined approach to seek out the fair unbiased solutions to the needs of the people, for his cool rationality and for his insatiable ambition to lead the Liberal Party. So tonight we excuse the fanatical and inaccurate contribution he has made because clearly he was not himself. But we understand him and we excuse him. However, he does have one claim to glory. He is the honourable member who led the fight against the implementation of the provisions of the Karmel scheme. He is the man who was so united with the Australian Country Party, his colleagues in opposition, that the Country Party members crossed the floor to vote against him. This was only a short 15 weeks ago - I think just 15 weeks this week - that that great bond of unity existed between the honourable member for Wannon leading the Liberal Party and the Country Party. So strong was the bond that they had to vote on opposite sides of the House and record their names in Hansard ashaving done so. We have the great unified, scattered, patched, many named collection of hotch-potch opposition groups. But the Opposition needs more than a new name to convince the people of Australia. 
This Government came into office with a clear and resounding mandate to implement the policies it had presented to the people. But as the people are well aware, the relic Opposition majority in the Senate has continually blocked major items of our mandate - our policies on health, education, social welfare, urban living, land acquisition- 
Keep quiet and you will learn something. It has blocked our policies on housing, immigration and many other subjects. Our policies were the most comprehensive, well-argued and well-presented that had ever been put to the Australian people. In government we have acted quickly to implement those policies despite the continued obstruction of a hostile Senate. We will continue to implement the promises we made to the people despite the amalgam of opposition in the Senate because the Australian people are coming to realise that it is the Senate Opposition that has blocked the implementation of the most important reforms that we were commissioned to implement on 2 December 1972. 
Over recent weeks I have listened with amusement to the pious remarks of Opposition members expressing a sudden new-found concern for people on fixed incomes and on pensions because of increasing prices they say. We well remember the annual pilgrimage of pensioners to Canberra around Budet time under previous governments to plead for a little more, please,  Sir and  receive nothing, 50c a week extra or maybe the magnificent sum of an extra $1 a week. Pensioners under a quarter of a century of reactionary government had become a political football. We ended all that. On the second day of the first session of this Parliament a Bill was brought in to increase pensions by $1.50 a week. In spring of the same year pensions were increased by a further $1.50 a week, and last week they were further increased by $2.50 a week for a married pensioner and $3 a week for a single pensioner. The single pension rate is almost 23 per cent of average weekly earnings, the highest level in 24 years. What is more, the pensioners know that this Government will carry out its pledge to raise pensions until they are equal to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. We promised the abolition of the means test on pensions over a 3 year period. We have already introduced the first part of that process with the abolition of the means test for the 75 years of age and over group. 
The Opposition parties may bleat about that too but remember their great leader of earlier years,  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, over a quarter of a century ago promised to abolish the means test. Yet when his successors were thrown out of office almost a quarter of a century later they had not even formulated a plan for its abolition, let alone commenced it. lt is no wonder that the Opposition Parties were thrown out when in Government. Members of the Opposition still have the effrontery to express concern for the welfare of the pensioner. But the pensioners are not fooled by the Opposition's charade. I am sure of that. Over the whole range of social welfare services this Government has acted promptly to improve the lot of the less fortunate and the under privileged. 
Progressive legislation that this Government has passed has been in the face of deliberate, blatant, frustrating tactics from the Opposition majority in the Senate, who were elected almost 3 years and 5 years before this Government's policies were endorsed by the Australian people. This relict, this obstructive Opposition majority in the Senate continues to stall, delay, defer and defeat important pieces of legislation which a clear majority of the Australian people firmly said, on 2 December 1972, were needed and ought to be brought into operation. In our first year of office, the Senate Opposition in its deliberate course of frustrating the will of the people rejected 13 Bills that had been initiated by this Government, deferred another 10 Bills and amended 21 Bills. The Opposition in the Senate has added further to that record in this session. It can deny it as it may, but the facts cannot be disproved. In the 13 days of this session 36 divisions took place in the Senate and the Government won one of those divisions. The people of Australia can work out the mathematics of that situation for themselves. Let us pause for a moment to have a look at the composition of the elderly majority in the Senate. In that majority who were elected 3 and 5 years ago - let us examine those in particular who were elected 5 years ago - are a number of senators whose term of office expires in a matter of a few weeks. They are due to retire. These senators are participating in a travesty of parliamentary democracy to thwart the wishes of the Australian people, to turn the country into turmoil, to create an unnecessary double dissolution if they have the courage to go on with it. Their actions will be recorded in the annals of parliamentary history as a prostitution of the Westminster parliamentary system of democracy. It is only a few days ago that the Opposition in the Senate deferred consideration of the Trade Practices Bill. The subject . of trade practices is one of the most important areas where legislative reform is needed to prohibit discriminatory pricing rings, undesirable trading agreements, undesirable business methods, to break down cartels and monopolies and, most of all, to assist in bringing down prices. But no, the Opposition wants the doors left open to the monopolies and to the multi-national corporations, to overseas boards of directors and to their supporters in big business to continue their raids on the public purse of Australia. What hypocrisy it is for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to enter this chamber and criticise the performance of this Government. He spoke about the incidence of inflation and the difficulties that inflation brought to bear on people, particularly those on fixed inomes. He spoke also about the incidence of personal income tax. The Leader of the Opposition who attempts to present himself as the alternative Prime Minister - and who makes a very poor job of it - is responsible, more than any other honourable member in this Parliament, for the rate of inflation that has developed in Australia since 1972. I am told that recently the Liberal Party Executive of Australia has made a decision that the Leader of the Opposition is not to appear on television by himself. I am not referring to Mutt and Jeff but I understand that he has to appear with the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  but analogies have been drawn to this grouping. It is well known- 
I did not say Steptoe and Son; I am sorry. It is well known that the ground work for the 1973 increases in inflation was laid in 1972 when the then Government, of which the Leader of the Opposition was the Treasurer, the minister responsible for financial directives, refused to act. He was a lame-duck Treasurer. He refused to implement the measures that were needed. He sat back and refused to do anything about the huge inflow of foreign capital which resulted in difficult problems of liquidity in 1973. Why did he not act? All honourable members will remember the period when the nation's financial leaders waited breathlessly day after day, asking: 'Will the Australian currency be revalued, or will it not? Maybe it will; maybe it will not'. For 3 days they waited but once again the Country Party triumphed and the exchange rate remained unchanged. 
The Opposition now says that it has found positive policies for the control of inflation. But the Leader of the Opposition, when Treasurer, could not and would not act as a responsible Treasurer should have acted. He was paralysed into a posture of inaction by the Country Party. Now he talks about the Opposition's policies to control inflation. I repeat that the Leader of the Opposition, more than anyone else, by his derelection of duty as Treasurer during 1971-1972, is responsible for the rate of inflation that exists in Australia today. Do not let us forget the period of standstill, lacklustre, meandering administration of the previous Government, of which he was the Treasurer. 
Inflation is a world-wide problem and a complex problem that has to be dealt with on many fronts. To suggest that there are simple solutions to inflation, such as cuts in public expenditure, reducing taxes, or reducing the size of the Public Service is patently dishonest and irresponsible. There are a number of sources of our present inflation but, as I said earlier, the base was laid by the previous Government and by the previous Treasurer, now the Leader of the Opposition in 1971-72. If at the time when he was Treasurer the Leader of the Opposition had acted to appreciate the Australian dollar and if he had acted to control capital inflow in 1972, the inflation rate in Australia would be much less. 
The world boom in commodity prices outside this nation has been a major contributing factor to our rate of inflation. Largely as a consquence of the boom conditions in world markets for meat and other commodities, food prices rose by 21 per cent in 1973 and were responsible for 47 per cent of the consumer price index increase. What happened when this Government moved to try to control meat prices? I do not have to remind honourable members of the outcry that arose from the Opposition benches. 
This Government inherited a legacy of inbuilt inflation from its predecessors. When the present Government came into office the Australian dollar was clearly undervalued. Within weeks of assuming office the Australian dollar was revalued by 7 per cent and a variable deposit requirement scheme in respect of overseas borrowings was introduced. Further measures to revalue the exchange rate and to tighten controls on capital inflow were taken in February 1973 and again in September 1973. No government can expect to come to grips with inflation when the money supply is increasing by 26 per cent per annum, as it was in 1972-73. Tariffs were reduced by the Government by 25 per cent in July 1973. In January 1974 further tariff reductions were made. The aims of these reductions were to lower import prices and to restrain the domestic price increases through increased competition and to help to meet demand pressures through an increased flow of imports. 
Unfortunately, the benefits of the reduced tariffs have not been passed on to the Australian consumer in all cases. Yet, when the price control referendum which, if it had been carried, would have given this Government the power to ensure that all benefits were passed on to the Australian consumer, was put to the people, the Opposition strenuously opposed it as it has opposed every measure the Government has introduced to combat inflation. It opposed to a man what would have been a most valuable anti-inflationary weapon. It opposed the referendum proposal to protect the profits of big business, whose interests it represents in this place. Let there be no mistake about that. The Opposition is not very particular about whether big business is Australian big business. It seems to have a preference for overseas big business. But the Opposition protects the interest of big business so long as it has money. The Opposition certainly does not represent the best interests of Australian consumers. Every step this Government has taken to combat inflation has been vigorously opposed by the Opposition because inflation benefits the overseas corporations, big business and the wealthy who sent them here. The Opposition opposed the appointment oi the Joint Committee on Prices. It opposed the establishmnt of the Prices Justification Tribunal, which is functioning successfully. But the Opposition supports and protects the interests of the multi-national corporation. Inflation around the world is a difficult problem and available figures for most countries have not yet registered the impact of the higher oil prices resulting from the energy crisis. Last year's prices throughout the industrialised world were heightened by exceptionally rapid growth. The combined gross national product of the non-communist industrial countries increased by nearly 7 per cent, faster than at any time since World War II, causing shortages and domestic/ overheating. Inflation has accelerated sharply almost everywhere since the beginning of the 1970s. Thirteen of the 24 member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development are suffering inflation at double figure levels. Japan is heading the list with a predicted rate of inflation of 16.5 per cent. Inflation in Germany is conservatively estimated to increase by 8.5 per cent. The antiinflation measures taken by the Government in the face of extremely bitter opposition from those on the other side of the House are starting to have effect. But we make this promise to the people of Australia; at no time and under no circumstances will this Government use the tool of creating an unemployment pool to try to combat inflation. This is the tool - the only tool - that the Opposition proposes to use ii: it ever returns to Government. 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property whether, during his recent  visit to Canada, he investigated the Canadian Election Expenses Act which provides for the disclosure of campaign funds to political parties. If so, will he state whether the proposed legislation already endorsed by the Australian Labor Party will follow a similar pattern and when it is likely to be introduced into the Parliament? Will he also state whether the proposed legislation will necessitate the revelation of the sources of all political campaign funds such as the huge amounts received by the anti-Labor parties from the mining corporations during the recent Federal election? 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to reports of the attempted assassination of Archbishop Makarios? What is the current situation in Cyprus? Will the Australian Government request the United Nations to intervene on behalf of the legitimate government of Cyprus in support of steps already taken by the Turkish and Canadian governments? Are the 35 Australian policemen stationed on the island safe? 
I was surprised earlier to hear honourable members on the Opposition side attempting to claim the credit for the initiative in having this legislation presented to the House. I simply say that they must have forgotten  Sir Garfield  Barwick and his efforts in 1962. They do not seem to realise that the existing legislation is what is left of what he set out to implement in 1962. I was astounded to hear the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  say that competition is not always a good thing and it is not always in the public interest, particularly as the comment came from a member of the Party that claims to represent the ideal of free enterprise in our nation. 
This Bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation ever to come before an Australian Parliament. Its passages into law and implementation will bring direct benefits to a vast number of Australians and it is unfortunate that the Opposition in another place saw fit to defer and delay the almost identical Bill that was first introduced into the Senate in 1973. It is pleasing, in spite of my earlier comment, to note that the Opposition has now indicated its support in both places for the legislation - in the main, that is. There is no doubt that had the Bill of September 1973 been passed millions of dollars that importers, distributors and retailers have received in savings as a result of the currency revaluation and tariff policies of this Government would have been passed on to the consumers. We need look no further for evidence of this than the report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices which was tabled in this House on 9 April of this year. Referring to flat glass the Committee on page 25 of its report recommends that the Parliament should: 
Approve of restrictive trade practices legislation that prohibits industry agreements and practices which restrict the amount of goods imported into Australia because this is the sole prerogative of the Australian Government and the Parliament; 
... take note of the evidence given by the Commissioner of Trade Practices to the Committee. 
Clause 49 of this Bill deals with the prohibition of price discrimination as between purchasers of goods of like grade and quality. The protection that this clause will provide to the smaller businessman, particularly the independent food retailer, is most welcome and long overdue. No sector of business has suffered as much as the independent food retailer because of the lack in the past of effective trade practice legislation. Whilst the turnover in food retailing rose from  SS  1.600m in 1956-57 to $3,273m in 1968-69 the total number of establishments selling food declined from 138,000 to 57,000, a drop of 81,500 outlets or 59 per cent. It is true that the sharp decline in the number of food retailers could not be attributed solely to the restrictive trade practices of suppliers but trade abuses such as boycotting, price discrimination, hidden discounts, hidden co-operative advertising allowances, resale price maintenance and exclusive dealing operated to the severe detriment of independent retailers. 
The Opposition when in government presided over the destruction of small business by its refusal to enact positive legislation to prohibit the abuses I have mentioned. During the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party stewardship of this nation small businessmen in their thousands were virtually run out of town through the collusive and collective action of their competitors and suppliers. Clause 49 of the Bill expressly prohibits discrimination in relation to: 
the prices charged for the goods; 
any discounts, allowances, rebates or credits given in relation to the supply of the goods; 
the provision of services or facilities in respect of the goods; or 
And I would take this section of the clause to cover items such as co-operative advertising allowances - 
the making of payments for services or facilities provided in respect of the goods. 
There are economies of scale to be derived from differing means of delivery of goods, differing destinations and large drops as compared with small drops but these ought not to be used as a screen for price discrimination as between purchasers of like goods. The latter sections of clause 49 prohibit this practice by making only reasonable allowance for such economies in determining prices. There is added strength in clause 49 in that a person is prohibited from seeking discriminatory prices. So, in effect it is double barrelled. A corporation is prohibited from practising price discrimination and a would-be purchaser is prohibited from attempting to obtain discriminatory prices. It is worth noting that while criticism has been made of the fact that the discriminatory dealing provisions of this Bill have been based on the Robinson-Patman Act of the United States it is a fact that this legislation aims to maintain competition of a much broader kind than is provided under that Act because much to the chagrin of the Opposition this Government is committed to the strengthening of competition in the Australian economy. 
I want to turn now to Part V of the Bill, that Part dealing with consumer protection. It is in the field of consumer protection that every Australian stands to benefit at some time or other from the enactment of this legislation. The absence of strong national legislation on consumer protection has allowed Australia to remain a paradise for imported and homegrown spivs, sharpies and confidence men for far too long. Sharp practices and smart selling tricks perfected overseas have been even further improved upon in this country. Perhaps I can best describe the objectives of these people by quoting from the final paragraph of a document titled 'Sales Presentation - The Key to Success', which was distributed to salesmen of a home cladding firm last year. I will quote the suggested trial close of a selling interview. It reads: 
Now I've shown you the brick, and you like it, right  Mr Jones  (Nodding.) and you did state that you were happy with the advertising - so if I measure up your home, work out the cost, put it through the advertising scale, and if we can fit this to your budget, I then have myself a model home. 

 Mr Jones (Jump up and shake hands, Nod.) Go out, measure up (With  Mr Jones.)  Work out prices and then close. 
Then comes the final paragraph setting out the selling spiel. It reads: 
Fill in the contract,- 
This is the part I really like - happy selling and may the flood gates of abundance open up and pour over you more money than you ever dreamed possible. GOOD LUCK- L.B. 
That document setting out instructions to salesmen says that the' Commonwealth Department of Trade and Industry commissioned the University of New South Wales to test the product. This is used as supposed evidence in support of a sale. It was issued in late 1973. In fact, it was in use in my electorate in late 1973. The document to which the firm refers, after having introduced it as being commissioned by the Commonwealth Department of Trade and Industry, is headed 'Approved by Independent Research' and the address shown is 'C/- University of New South Wales, Barker Street, Kensington, N.S.W.'. I cannot read the signature because the photocopy of the document is not a clear reproduction but the relevant thing is that it is dated 7 July 1965 which is 8 years earlier than when the sales presentation example was being used. Naturally that kind of representation would be prevented under the provisions of our own consumer protection legislation that is currently before the House. 
Various States have consumer protection laws of varying degrees of effectiveness. It is not intended by this Bill to displace State legislation and this is expressly stated in clause 75. I would say by way of comparison that in Canada and in the United States there is very strong consumer legislation at the national level as well as at the State level and in some cases even at the local government level. The fact that there exists in these countries 3 sets of laws does not inhibit the effectiveness of the legislation. In fact, it all adds up to more protection for the consumer. 
In our economic climate of national marketing and national advertising, it is appropriate that controls should be administered on a national basis. It is probable that time will show that State legislation will tend to concentrate more on anti-consumer practices at the State and local levels. Practices prohibited under this part of the legislation include misleading or deceptive conduct, false representations - as I mentioned earlier - deceptive offering of prizes in connection with the promotion of goods or services, bait advertising and referral selling. If a person is fortunate enough to live in a weatherboard house which needs painting he will be constantly in receipt of proposals to have his house clad with aluminium or brick and there will he constant calls at his door. The. survey to which I have referred was carried out - in the Newcastle area, at least - on weatherboard houses. Other prohibited practices are accepting payment without intending to supply as ordered, misleading statements about home operated businesses, coercion at place of residence, pyramid selling, inertia selling, such as unsolicited goods being delivered, and certain practices involving entries in business directories. 
I have no doubt that many honourable members have had instances brought to their attention of the prohibited practices I have just mentioned. In the short time at my disposal I want to draw attention to the heartbreak suffered by many citizens unfortunate enough to have been victims of pyramid selling schemes, such as Holiday Magic and Dare to be Great, to mention two. People have lost their life savings and their businesses, and families have been broken up, all as a result of participation in pyramid selling schemes - schemes that were presented as sure-fire successes but which, as far as the participants were concerned, were doomed to failure. Despite existing New South Wales legislation, various adaptations of pyramid selling were still operating in my electorate as recently as a few months ago, when an instance was brought to my notice of despair in a family, where the parents were divided over propositions put to them for pyramid selling schemes. 
It does not matter how good the New South Wales legislation is, ways have been found to circumvent the law. I am informed that the way around the 5 day cooling off period for door-to-door sales in New South Wales is to sign up the purchaser on a Thursday evening and be sure that the invoices and contracts show only a box number and not a house address. The salesman signs up the purchaser on a Thursday evening. It is too late for the mails and there is no address for the purchaser to go to and so, if he wants to register his revocation of the contract and withdraw from the sale, all he can do is write to the vendor. Since there is no Saturday morning delivery to mail boxes the vendor can readily claim that the revocation was not in his mail box on Monday. He collects it on the Tuesday and thus effectively beats the provision for a 5 day cooling off period. 
I should think that the vendors are probably Country Party people. In this way the vendor effectively gets around the provisions of the New South Wales consumer legislation. But they will not be able to get around the provisions of this legislation. I repeat that this legislation is intended to reinforce, not to clash with or duplicate, the legislation of the various States. The honourable member for Wentworth has suggested that we should get together with the States. We have all heard how the States like to get together with the Federal Government. 
The Minister for Services and Property says: 'They cannot agree on daylight saving'. I cannot think of a better instance. They cannot even agree on what time to milk the cows. I conclude on this note: If the States had been able to implement effective legislation for consumer affairs, it would not have been necessary for legislation to be before this House at this time to bring benefits to Australian citizens. There is a need for this type of legislation and I hope that the Opposition is sincere in its indication of support for it. 
Having listened to the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  one would think that this Government had created the problems of the Australian Post Office. Its problems in the main derive from the lack of effective policy direction, long range planning and Australian Country Party rorts in the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party administration. The honourable member for Gippsland is a constant source of entertainment in this House and if he could have kept the smiles off his face I am sure we would be in a better position to take seriously what he said.  His  history lesson was an interesting one except for the fact that he did not mention anything about the role of the Country Party in interfering in the activities of the Post Office and that Party's misguided policies over many years. 
Members of this Government do not derive pleasure from legislating for increases in postal and telegraph charges. We are more reluctant than anyone to see postal rates go up, but economic facts have to be faced. On preliminary estimates available for 1973-74 it seems that the overall result of the operations of the Australian Post Office will reach a break even position only. If the present rate of tariffs were to continue unchanged throughout 1974-1975, a loss in excess of $100m would be incurred. Whilst good arguments can be put forward that postal services ought to be considered as a social service on the one hand or as a straight business undertaking on the other hand, the reality is that both points of view are incompatible. It is reasonable that the user of the services ought to bear the major share of the cost of providing the service, not the general taxpayer. Hence there is a necessity for increased rates and charges. 
The Postmaster-General's Department is the nation's largest business operation. On average more than 5,000 letters are distributed and more than 6,000 telephone calls are completed every minute of every day. The postal service is a highly labour intensive operation and depends much on the willing co-operation of many people of differing skills and backgrounds. Because about 70 per cent of its operating costs are expended on labour and as community wage levels are rising, increasing costs are inevitable. The financial dilemma facing the Australian Post Office is not unique among the industrialised nations of the world. I refer to page 52 of the report of the Vernon Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office. The Committee in its conclusions stated: 
The administration of these services in Australia faces problems which are common to many countries. Increased labour costs which cannot be offset by greater productivity through technical advances, are causing postal costs to rise substantially. The advanced technology of telecommunications and increasing demands for services, are placing strains on the financial resources of authorities. 
It also stated: 
The postal and telecommunications services provided by the A.P.O. function in much the same way as do the services provided by authorities in other countries. As an organisation the A.P.O. stands high in the opinion of its counterparts in other countries. The technical and administrative competence of its officers have been recognised by the positions recorded to many of them in the international forums and agencies concerned with problems of postal and telecommunications development. 
For too long the Australian Post Office was administered as the private, political preserve of the Country Party. It was managed in line with policies that were based on political motivations rather than on sound commercial practice. One does not need to go beyond the highly expensive country telephone line program initiated in 1970-71 to find instances where it would have been literally a better proposition for the Post Office to have bought the farm than to incur the expense of providing a telephone service to the farm. 
Mention must be made also of the decision in 1971 to increase the Government's share of pensions and the decision of the LiberalCountry Party Government in 1972 to appoint Professor A. H. Pollard to inquire into methods of adjusting Commonwealth superannuation benefits. Resulting from his recommendations, the Superannuation Act 1973 provided for staff pensions to be adjusted by 1.4 times the percentage increase in the consumer price index. These actions increased future payments to past and present Post Office employees. Accordingly there must be a sharp increase in Post Office payments for superannuation liability. Post Office payments for superannuation liability increased from $49m in 1972-73 to $104m in 1973-74 and the provision for payment of $130m has been made in the Post Office budget this year to meet the cost of this item. 
The present Opposition when in Government refused to initiate steps to place the Australian Post Office on a proper business-like footing and it took a change in government to see the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into Post Office operations, the result of which has been this Government's decision to separate the Australian Post Office into 2 separate commissions. The increased and altered rates and charges provided for in these 2 Bills- the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill 1974 and the Post and Telegraph Bill 1974- should be seen as the first steps of a rationalisation of activities and charges of the Post Office arising from the report of the Vernon Commission of Inquiry. This particularly applies to the schedule of postal charges which introduces the classification of a standard postal article. 
Those honourable members who have taken the trouble to check this section of the schedule will realise that the dimensions of the standard postal article cover most letters and in many cases will result in a saving on postal charges. A standard postal article will be any item of mail between the dimensions of 90mm by 140mm and 120mm by 235mm having an oblong shape with a ratio of width to length of 1 to not less than 1.4 and with a maximum thickness of 5mm, which is just under a quarter of an inch. I invite the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  who is trying to interject, to listen and he will learn. On such articles there is no weight limit, which means that all standard postal articles over 20 grams in weight will bear postage of 9c, the new basic rate, instead of the 15c payable under the old schedule of charges. This is a reduction of 6c a standard postal article over 20 grams in weight. 
For example, the 2 main envelope sizes used in this place both qualify as standard postal articles. If one cares to examine the trial sizes which I have drawn up for the benefit of members of the Country Party who have difficulty in reading they will see that ample opportunity is provided for the coverage of the majority of postal articles. It can be seen that the standardising of the size of envelopes will provide opportunity for the considerable savings in the handling of letters to be passed on to the senders. I repeat: The rationalisation in the. size of postal article - the introduction of a standard postal article and the ultimate introduction of envelopes of standard sizes - will bring economies to the Post Office about which the former government, of which the honourable member for Cowper was a member, did not see fit in those days to be concerned. The rationalisation that could have been introduced or commenced in those days could have started in that long period of almost a quarter of a century. 
These economies are embodied in the rates to be charged for standard postal articles. Though it is not provided in this legislation, I ask the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who represents in this place the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop),  to give, consideration to the introduction of a special rate for greeting cards. We all know that millions of greeting cards are posted each year. People exchange all kinds of expressions by medium of cards - birthday cards and get-well cards - but I am thinking particularly of Christmas cards and cards at Easter time. I would like to see a special rate of 6c established for greeting cards to enable those less fortunate to maintain contact at festive times with those near to them. I am sorry that, by their attempts to interject, members of the Country Party indicate that they do not agree with my proposition. I know of people, especially aged persons, who find the postage rate on Christmas cards a burden but who derive much pleasure and satisfaction from sending and receiving greeting cards. 
I wish to say something now about increased telephone charges. In the matter of public telephone charges the increase from 5c to 10c is unavoidable. Unfortunately, because of the type of unit selected by our predecessors in 1963, the only increase that can be made is in 5c steps, without incurring costs in excess of S10m plus the long delay that would be experienced in their replacement. Public telephone charges have not been altered since 1963. In the following 11 years average weekly wages have risen by 130 per cent. So the increase proposed is reasonable. Despite the proposed increase, the return from public telephones still will not cover the cost of providing the service. It will be more than 12 months before all public telephones are converted from a call charge of 5c to one of 10c. The rate at present on red telephones is 7c. The rate at present in some motels is 20c or higher for each call. I am at a loss to understand why a service such as the red telephones - again this was due to the Country Party's administration - was not provided by the Australian Post Office instead of being handed over to private enterprise. The red telephone service is a profitable exercise. It is a service that should have been provided by the Australian Post Office and not given out to private enterprise. 
I turn now to the subject of telephone rentals. It is equitable that business telephone rentals should be higher than private telephone rentals. After all, business telephones are used commercially to produce income and as such the rentals are a legitimate tax deductible business expense. Private telephone rentals will be increased by $10 per annum - a not unreasonable increase considering that metropolitan telephone rentals have not altered in 3 years and given the increased costs that have occurred since 1971 in providing the services. While we have heard much from the Opposition about the increased charges, no mention has been made of the decreased trunk call charges. That is in accord with the Opposition's usual outbursts. Despite the fact that each member of the Opposition concerned has been advised in writing by the Postmaster-General of the reductions that will take place in charges in his electorate, we have not heard one word from the Opposition about the reductions. 
Reductions are being introduced in relation to trunk calls over the distance of up to 50 kilometres charging distance. As a result of those reductions - they will be the second in less than 12 months - the cost of a 3-min- ute call that falls within this category will be reduced from 19c to 12c during the day and from 15c to 6c at night. The change that was made in October 1973 represented a benefit to telephone callers of $3.5m in a full year. The change that has been proposed will add about $2m a year to that figure. In my own electorate it means that calls from Newcastle suburbs to places such as Branxton, Cessnock, Pokolbin, Clarencetown, Dungog, East Gresford, Paterson, Karuah, Wyong, Doyal- son, Toukley and Wyee will be regarded as local calls. What has happened over the years is that the Australian Post Office has been left to carry the burden of those operations that are not profitable, that are labour intensive and that incur high costs. 
The point on which I want to finish concerns the introduction of a courier service. Such a service is most lucrative. It is a service which could have been provided by our predecessors; but, like the red telephones, it was not provided because there was a dollar to be made out of it. As I have said, the Australian Post Office has had to carry the can for the provision of those services that are not profitable and has had to leave to private enterprise the services that are profitable and that produce income. Honourable members opposite ignored proper commercial practices over the years in their handling of the Australian Post Office. The burden of carrying the load of the expensive, unprofitable services has been left to the taxpayer. Most of the burden is due to the provision of services in certain areas purely for political purposes. 
These 4 Bills are associated with the introduction of our universal health insurance program. I do not think I gathered one fresh statement, one new message, or one new word after listening to the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  that I have not heard on previous occasions.  His  speech was simply a repetition and a re-hash. Much of it is completely inaccurate and much of it has been shown to be inaccurate and untrue. 
That is more than can be said for the honourable member on most occasions. The Bills at present before the House will enable the Government to collect the money that is necessary to finance the scheme. They are based on 2 very simple propositions. Before proceeding to deal with those propositions I draw the attention of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to one respect in which I think the people of Australia would have been much .better informed if the Minister had followed a different practice. I think that the Minister, in all his goodwill, in allowing in 1973 a period of 6 months for public debate and discussion of our universal health insurance program made an error. That 6 months was wholly abused, not only by the Opposition but also by the interests that it represents. They used that 6 months period not for constructive discussion and constructive criticism, but rather to misrepresent and to distort the facts and provisions of the scheme and to set about a campaign trying to frighten, in the main, sick people. 
Our scheme is based on 2 very simple propositions. The first is that it is the birthright of every Australian to have access to the best health care that this country can provide. The second is that the costs of providing for health care should be borne by all Australians based on their capacity to pay. I can think of no 2 more simple principles or more equitable principles than those in relation to health care. 
I cannot think of any fairer method of paying for health care than one based on capacity for payment. I received a letter from a man who was stimulated by some of the statements made by members of the Opposition during 1973. The man said that his wife had recently been ill. It had , been a serious illness and he was very fortunate that his wife had been able to have access to the highest quality health care available in New South Wales. She had been able to stop in the best private hospital in Sydney at the time. His wife made a complete recovery. The whole affair cost the man about $95. If we went ahead with our system based on capacity to pay - contributions based on taxable income - his costs would rise per annum from $95 to $150. I thought what a terrible shame for him that he was in a financial position to pay the highest level of medical and hospital contributions so that his wife could have the advantage of the facilities she needed. 
I compared that case with a recent incident concerning a widow pensioner who came to me with her son who was temporarily unemployed, who had not registered for unemployment benefits and therefore did not have access to the subsidised health benefits plan. The son had a sudden heart attack and was hospitalised. This aged pensioner was faced with a bill for $150, which is exactly the maximum contribution that we propose to impose under this legislation. I thought of the gentleman who wrote to me and I thought what a lucky world he lived in compared with this widow pensioner and her son who was still ill and still seeking employments 
What it boils down to is this: Our scheme has to be financed by all Australians who are above the minimum taxable income limit and there ought to be equity of access to health care. What the Opposition represents are really the reactionaries in society or what we can only call the bastions of conservatism in this country - that is, the Australian Medical Association and the new associates of the voluntary health insurance funds. It is the interests of those people, not the interests of the average Australian, that are being put forward by the Opposition. In short, the Opposition represents a perpetuation of privilege in our society. I refer honourable members again to the gentleman who wrote to me. He was very very happy. He had the best service that this country had to offer. It did not cost him much because many people less able than he to pay were paying more than they ought to have been paying. 
We are proposing under the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill that 1.35 per cent of taxable income be the contribution under the universal health insurance program with a maximum contribution limit for any one taxpayer of $150. If you compared those figures produced by the Minister and by previous speakers on this side of the House you would find that in the majority of cases our proposal would represent reduction in contributions rather than an increase. One has to look a bit further than simply the Opposition's performance in this field. It has had the collaboration of sympathetic State governments in this country in holding back hospital fees. For what other reason did the New South Wales Government hesitate to increase hospital fees for a period of 3 years? They held back increases that should have come in last year simply because if hospital fees had risen last year the contribution rates to hospital funds would have had to rise. 
The comparisons that the voluntary health insurance funds, the AMA and the Opposition are making in respect of our proposed 1.35 per cent levy would have looked much sicker, so sympathetic governments were prepared to let the hospitals operate at rates lower than they should have charged in order to facilitate and to try to enhance the appearance of the case that they, the Opposition and the AMA, were putting up. We have had funds which have themselves admitted they should have been charging a higher rate, but they hesitated to increase their rate last year when this legislation was before the Parliament - again for the very simple reason that they were doing their bit along with the Opposition in trying to make the combined costs of contributions to medical benefits funds and hospital contribution funds look favourable when compared with the 1.35 per cent levy on taxable income. 
The honourable member for Hotham referred continually, as have other members of the Opposition, to a comparison between the United Kingdom national health scheme and the scheme which we propose. Anyone who is honest has to admit that our system is based on a fee for service system, not on a wholly salaried staff scheme such as exists in the United Kingdom. The members of the Opposition conveniently and repetitively skipped that little comparison. They made a direct comparison of what in fact are two incomparable systems. They are incompatible. They cannot be compared because one is based on a wholly salaried staff system and the other on a fee for service system. What the AMA really wants is access to the public purse and the entitlement to be able to fix its own rates. Even parliamentarians might be interested in that. Even members of the Country Party, after last week, would like to be able to set their own rates of pay and not have to account to anybody. That is really what the AMA and the Opposition are after in respect of the scheme that they have tried to prop up. One would think that we are responsible for the present patched-up, run-down scheme. We inherited it. 
Again comparison is made by the Opposition with the system in Canada. I am alarmed that the Opposition spokesman on health continually downgrades the quality of the Canadian scheme and tries to make a direct comparison with our proposed scheme, despite the fact that a Minister of the Canadian Government was here early this year and objected to what was being said and expressed the satisfaction of the Government at their scheme. There have been numerous Press statements and reports of satisfaction on the part of the people generally and members of the Canadian Medical Association at the operation of the Canadian scheme. Yet we still have the opponents of this Government coming along and trying to present the Canadian scheme as a failure when in fact it is not. 
Let me say a little bit more about the choice of doctor. I have heard so much from the opposite side of the chamber about this wonderful 'choice of doctor'. If I may relate my personal experience, earlier this year I rang a general practitioner service near to my home for a doctor to call on my son. The lass answered the telephone and said: 'Has your son been to see doctor before?' As he had not I said: 'No'. She said: T am sorry, doctor cannot accept any more patients; you are in the wrong area.' When I checked that with the doctor later in the day he absolutely denied it and said the receptionist did not have any authority to make a statement like that. That simply adds to what is the general situation, at least in the Hunter region and as far as the Hunter Medical Association is concerned. Choice of doctor, as members of the Opposition have tried to describe it, does not exist. If you are fortunate enough to be in an area where doctors' books are not full, where doctors have culled out bad payers, where they have culled out those patients they do not wish to be bothered with, you may have access to a doctor. But the general run of things is that if you go to a doctor's surgery you are told to come back. You are told to come back at some other time. If you specify a doctor you are invited to take the doctor who is on duty, not the doctor of your choice. So this great image of your choice of doctor just does not exist. It is a fantasy as far as actual medical services are concerned. 
The honourable member for Wimmera said this is rubbish. I thought country people were deprived and suffered because they did not have quality of service compared with people in urban areas. I come from an urban area and if what I have related to the honourable member is not the quality of service, or something better is available to him in the rural area, well good luck to him because, if it is, what he has been saying in the past is completely untrue. There must be a better position and a better standard of living in the urban areas which he represents than is available in the Newcastle metropolitan area. I am speaking of fact; I do not know about the honourable member. 
Under our proposal the contribution limit of 1.35 per cent of taxable income will be set at $1,041, which is the bottom of the present tax schedule, and the figure derived from the schedule set out in the memorandum to the legislation. In simple terms it allows pensioners, particularly those who are concerned about this and amongst whom, again, the Opposition has attempted to create confusion and fear - a tactic all the way through in respect of our program - pensioners who have an entitlement to the rebate under the tax on pensions scheme as introduced in the income year just ended to be exempt from the levy. So the amount will be that which is described and is currently set at $1,921. It is worth while mentioning that the Government is looking into those cases where there is entitlement, a pensioner medical service entitlement and the income level is above that entitlement. We will be bringing in recommendations to make sure that special provision is made for those people. If a member of a family is entitled to complete repatriation health care this will entitle the remainder of the family to a one-half reduction in the amount of levy to be assessed. 
I want to finish my remarks on the argument of the over-utilisation of health services. Over and over again the most common complaint that is brought forward by the Opposition is that if a health care service is introduced in which at the point of sale no money changed hands - not even a nominal amount of, say, 50c- 'there would be over-utilisation of the service. I have challenged the Opposition on a previous occasion to support this contention. 1 challenge the Opposition to say why this has not happened in the repatriation service that has been in operation for more than 50 years? Why is it that it has not been abused in the manner the Opposition suggests would happen with a universal health insurance program? Why do not repatriation pensioners or those entitled to repatriation medical services reject their repatriation medical officers if, as the Opposition suggests, salaried officers are not able to give the same care as doctors receiving a fee for service? The Opposition cannot answer this question because the repatriation medical service, staffed in the main by salaried officers in a system in which no amount of money changes hands at the time the service is rendered, is held in very high regard in this nation. 
I repeat that I challenge the Opposition to answer this criticism. If there is something wrong with a service in which money does not have to change hands when the service is received, why has the Opposition not abolished the repatriation service? If the British and Canadian systems are so bad, why have not the governments in those countries repealed the relevant legislation and returned to the voluntary system to which the Opposition wants to hold Australia. A conservative government was in office in the United Kingdom for 13 years after the British health system was introduced and it saw fit to continue with it and expand upon it. Even though the Opposition makes an improper comparison between the British system and our program, the Opposition's friends in the United Kingdom saw fit to continue with the British health care system. 
Last night we were treated to a discourse by the yodelling cowboy from the southern sector of Queensland, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  I am sorry he is not in the chamber this evening. I informed him I was going to remark on his speech of last evening. He came into this chamber and cried crocodile tears about the problems of local government. He set out what was supposed to be happening in Queensland and who was responsible for what was happening. He ought to have a discussion with his State leader - his hero, jovial Joh, the Premier of Queensland - and draw the attention of the Premier to his activities during the recent referendum in respect of the financial situation for local government. The financial problems that exist in local government are problems that developed in the 23 years of Federal Liberal-Country Party administration. They occurred in Queensland, in particular, under a long period of Country Party administration. 
Let us look at the position of State and local government debt and borrowing since 1947. In that year the total debt of local government authorities was $140m or about 7 per cent of total State government debt. In June 1971, on preliminary figures provided by the Government statistician, the debt had risen to $ 1,730m or almost 15 per cent of estimated total State government debt at that date. In the 24 years local government authorities debt had increased twelve-fold compared with an increase of not quite six-fold in the State government total outstanding debt. Yet after that period of enormous growth in the range and cost of local government responsibility, local government's voice was not being heard in the place where the nation's broad public borrowing programs were being determined. After almost a quarter of a century of 
Liberal-Country Party administration local government was effectively a vassal of State bureaucracies. 
I am quite delighted that the honourable member for Darling Downs told the House that he recently had talked to  Mr Fred  Rogers,  President  of the Queensland Local Government Association. He said that he had had numerous discussions with the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  and  Mr Seventeen  Per Cent, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson).  He said that the two honourable members are both men who have devoted many years of their life to local government. Both these gentlemen, in collaboration with the honourable member for Darling Downs, ought to have conferred with the Secretary of the Queensland Local Government Association and they might have learned something to their benefit. Interim regions in Queensland were created for the first year of the Grants Commission operations last December. Applications for approval of the new long term regional organisations have just been received. All local governing bodies in the regions which have so far applied have opted voluntarily into the scheme. Only 2 regions were the subject of negotiations with the Queensland Government and the Department of Urban and Regional Development. A satisfactory arrangement has been reached in these regions with the assistance of  Mr Max  Armstrong, secretary of the State Local Government Association. A close and amicable arrangement has developed between the association and the officers of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
Local government in Queensland has welcomed the Grants Commission initiative, and the Association has provided secretarial assistance to the regional organisations of councils in the person of its secretary,  Mr Armstrong.  The honourable member for Darling Downs quoted Lord Rosebery as saying: 'He who wants to serve his fellow man cannot serve him in any better way than by engaging in local government.' I suggest that that is the only factual part of the honourable member's contribution last evening. I should like to draw the honourable member's attention and his colleagues' attention to a report which appeared in the 'South Burnett Times' on 27 February last. The newspaper reported on the visit of the Premier of Queensland to the local government conference held at Wondai and the  reaction of the Mayor of Bundaberg, Alderman Nielsen. Alderman Nielsen said that the Premier was inclined to have handed out a threatbut stated that local authorities were quite capable of making up their own minds on the best interests of local government. The article quotes  Mr Armstrong  as saying: 
For the Premier to introduce politics to the conference was quite out of place. 
In effect what the Premier said was that in respect of any money for local government in Queensland received from the Federal Government there would be a corresponding reduction in assistance from the Queensland Government. I do not know whether or not that is co-operation from the Queensland Government -maybe in its terms it is -  but  certainly it is not assistance for or recognition of local goverment. 
This Government has done more in 20 months for local government than any Federal Government since federation. The honourable member says that the Australian Country Party has definite plans to submit for the solution of local government ills. The plan it has appears to include opposition to referendums, opposition to local government and a threat by the Premier of Queensland to local government delegates meeting at Wondai. The honourable member went on to claim that the Department of Urban and Regional Development had not done anything in Australia outside of the western suburbs of Melbourne and Sydney. 
Perhaps he was not in the House and I am certain the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  was not in the House - he does not understand anyway - when the Sewerage Agreements Bill, was passed in December of last year. It provided for the sum of $30m to be allocated to the constituent States of this Federation for sewerage works. A particular amendment was made to that Bill and to the grants that have since flowed following representations from Queensland. Queensland received its share but, as I said, the honourable member for Cowper probably would not have noticed that.  His  mind would have been on other things. I am certain that the honourable member for Darling Downs would have been catching up on his yodelling practice. Apart from the sewerage backlog there has been a flow of money from the Department of Urban and Regional Development under the national estate program and funds have been made available through the lands commissions. But again that modern government in Queensland, under the leadership of the Country Party, has not seen fit to participate in the program that would reduce the price of home sites. It does not want that. 
It would be very interesting to know whether the Federal Country Party now supports federal assistance for local government. Knowing the way that the Country Party operates I would not be in the least surprised if it is not at the head of the queue making representations to this Government for assistance to be given to local government. I venture to say that it probably is. In any case it would be typical of the attitude the Country Party adopts in following the policy of what can only be described as hypocrisy and duplicity. Having opposed not only the local government referendum but also having opposed in this House the constitutional referendum Bills which would only enable us to ask the people- 
You did not even want to ask the people. 
I thank you for your guidance,  Mr Speaker.  I had interpreted the noise as a yodel but I accept your interpretation. Although I am under extreme provocation I will restrain myself. I was addressing my remarks to the membership of the Country Party as a whole even though in this case they could well be directed to certain members. The honourable member for Darling Downs is recorded at page 824 of Hansard as having said: 
Those of us who sit on this side of the House- that is, the Opposition side- maintain that the supporters of the Labor Government are merely a mob of political bikies who are pack-raping the local government associations of this country. 
That is probably one of the most colourful expressions I have heard coming from that side of the House. But I think in that case we would have to plead 'with consent' because after seeing the co-operation that was received  from local government authorities in Queensland, particularly the assistance of the Secretary of the Local Government Association of Queensland. The fact is that out of all those regions I mentioned every constituent council has participated in the deliberations and is participating in the benefits that will become available from the Australian Grants Commission. I will conclude on this note. The Grants Commission- 
You would not understand anyway. The grants from the Grants Commission will be available in the 1974-75 Budget. That" was always the promise. That was always the indication and I am sorry to have to repeat it again for the benefit of the Australian Country Party membership. 
-I ask the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, in view of the worldwide paper shortage, whether paper can be produced from the plant kenaf. If so, is it feasible that a sufficient quantity could be grown in Australia to have an impact on the shortage of paper in this country? 
-I will be brief in my remarks as the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has requested. The refusal of the Senate to ratify the proposed postal charges in July last can only be described at best as irresponsible and typical of the course of bullheaded obstructionism that has been pursued by the Opposition in the Senate since December 1972. The Opposition has aptly been described as trying to operate as a government in exile in another place. The editorial of the Melbourne 'Age' of 1 August was appropriate when it said: 
Higher postal charges are not so much a part of the Government's anti-inflationary program as a first step towards making the Post Office commercially viable . . . Significantly, the Opposition did not oppose the increased postal charges in the House of Representatives. Their rejection in the Senate must be seen as a tactical manoeuvre based on opportunism rather than a valid objection based on reason or principle 
At the time of the Senate's rejection last July of the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill of 1974, it was anticipated that if rates were not increased then the Australian Post Office could expect a loss of approximately $134m in 1974-75. Honourable members will recall that a few weeks later when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced the deferment of the Government's child care proposals, the same Opposition set up a phoney outcry against this Government. The total cost of the child care program as promised in the election campaign of May last was almost equal to the loss anticipated to be incurred by the Australian Post Office. It would seem that the Opposition 's priorities then were that postal charges should be lowered at the expense of a total child care program because it cannot have it both ways. Whilst good arguments can be put forward that postal services ought to be considered as a social service on the one hand or as a straight business undertaking on the other, the reality is that both points of view are incompatible. It is reasonable that the user of services ought to bear the major share of the cost of providing the services and not the general taxpayer. Hence there is a necessity for increased rates and charges. 
The Australian Post Office is the nation's largest business operation. On average, in excess of 5,000 letters are distributed and more than 6,000 telephone calls are completed every minute of every day. As such, the operation of the Post Office is a highly labour-intensive operation and depends much more on the willing co-operation of many people of differing skills and background. Because about 70 per cent of its operating costs are expended on labour and as community wage levels are rising, increasing costs are inevitable. The financial dilemma facing the Australian Post Office is not unique among the industrialised nations of the world. This is referred to by the Vernon Commission in its report on page 52. The problem in Australia has been that the Australian Post Office for far too long has been administered as a private political preserve of the Australian Country Party. It was managed in line with policies that were based on political motives rather than on sound commercial practice. One does not need to go beyond the highly expensive country telephone program initiated in 1970-71 to find instances where it would have been literally a better proposition for the Post Office to have bought the farm than to have incurred the cost of providing a telephone. 
Mention must be made also of the decision in 1971 to increase the Government's share of pensions and the decision of the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1 972 to appoint Professor A. H. Pollard to inquire into methods of adjusting Commonwealth superannuation benefits. Resulting from his recommendations was the Superannuation Act 1973. 1 know that members of the Country Party are not interested. That is why they are leaving the chamber. The Superannuation Act 1973 provided for staff pensions to be adjusted by 1.4 times the percentage increase in the consumer price index. These actions increased future payments to past and present Post Office employees. Accordingly there has had to be a sharp increase in Post Office payments for superannuation liability. Post Office payments for superannuation liability increased from $49m in 1972-73 to $104m in 1973-74, and provision for the payment of $130m has been made in the Post Office budget this year to meet the cost of this item. 
The present Opposition, when in Government, refused to initiate steps to place the Australian Post Office on a proper businesslike footing. It took a change in government to see the establishment of a commission of inquiry. (Quorum formed). I thank the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for calling some Country Party members to the House. It is interesting to note that it took a Liberal member of the Opposition to call the quorum. Obviously he wanted some Country Party members present to particpate in the debate. I ought to remind the House that when post and telegraph rates were altered in 1973 the Country Party endorsed the increase in telephone rates. It was only interested in objecting to increased postal rates on country newspapers. It is not really concerned about increases in telephone rates. As I was saying, the present Opposition, when in government, refused to take the steps necessary to put the Australian Post Office on a proper businesslike footing. It was the present Government which after the election of 1972 established the commission of inquiry into the operations of the Post Office. 
The point that has been largely overlooked in relation to the new rates is that the introduction of a standard postal article is a very worthwhile step forward in the handling of mail. The standard postal article in many instances, as it covers most sized letters, will result in a saving of postal charges. A standard postal article will be be any item of mail between the dimensions of 90 millimetres by 140 millimetres and 120 millimetres by 235 millimetres. As there is not any weight limit, no doubt this will result in a substantial saving in postal charges. 
The other matter that has been mentioned, the increase in public telephone charges, is again a course that was prescribed by the Opposition when in government. When the telephone equipment was installed in 1963 provision was made for 5c steps only. Because of the mechanism of the telephones, the only step up that can be made from a 5c charge is an increase to 10c. This ought to be brought to the notice of the people of Australia. The increase in domestic telephone rentals from $55 to $65 is an increase of $10 as compared with an increase of $30 for commercial rentals. I think it is proper that business telephone rentals be higher than domestic telephone rentals. After all the charge for business telephone rentals is a deductible item for taxation purposes because it is an expense item in the profit and loss account of the business. I think it is proper that the householder be not called upon to subsidise business telephone rentals. 
I make one final point in referring to the effect that increased telephone costs and increased telephone charges will have on the average householder. It has been completely and conveniently overlooked by members of the Opposition in this debate that the abolition of radio and television receiver licence fees represents a saving to almost every member of the community of $26.50 a year. If one were to deduct from that the $ 10 per annum increase in the telephone rental one would be still left with a saving of $ 1 6.50. 1 doubt that even members of the Australian Country Party would be writing more than 550 letters a year, which would be the number that would be required to take up the saving that would result. So, even if the difference is only $16.50, the non-payment to the Post Office of a television and radio receiver's licence will more than offset the increased postal charges. 
The point of all the opposition from, in particular, the Country Party to increased postal charges relates not to domestic mails but to the charge imposed on the carriage of country newspapers. Anybody listening to this debate a little earlier would have heard a number of comments made on this matter. It would be a very interesting exercise to conduct an inquiry into the ownership of country newspapers and the country media to see who benefits most directly from the loss suffered by the taxpayer on the carriage of country newspapers by post. That is the matter of real interest. I for one believe that if newspapers are a commercial operation they ought to be carried at a commercial charge. If they are a business they ought to make their proper contribution towards the cost of providing a service, just as a householder has to do. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the provision of sewerage facilities is a basic health service and it is pleasing to note that the Opposition supports the Sewerage Agreement Bill 1974 which, on receiving royal assent, will provide $3. 95m to Victoria, $lm to Queensland and $3m to Western Australia for the further reduction of sewerage backlogs. Previous Opposition speakers have criticised the proposition that this money is in the form of long term loans. The facts are that it was the Australian Labor Party which years ago accepted Federal responsibility for the provision of this basic health service. The Opposition needs to be reminded that it was during the rapid urbanisation that occurred throughout 23 years of successive Liberal Party-Country Party administrations prior to December 1972 that the major portion of the present sewerage backlog was built up. During that 23 years there was a deliberate avoidance by Liberal Party-Country Party governments of the responsibility to assist the sewerage construction authorities of Australia in meeting their works programs. This Australian Labor Government, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  are to be commended for the speed with which they have moved to implement the promises made prior to the 1972 Federal election. 
The Sewerage Agreement Act 1973 appropriated $30m of loan funds at the long term bond rate to the States for backlog sewerage works in 1973-74. This amount was additional to the normal allocation of loan money made each year to the States. The addition of $7.95m provided by this BUI makes a total of $37.95m for 1973-74. If there had not been a change to the Australian Labor Government in December 1972 not one cent would have been provided for the purposes covered by this BUI. That is something the Opposition might well note, much as it may grieve honourable members opposite. It is worth noting also that the 1973-74 program included 81 reticulation projects, 35 main, sub-main and carrier sewer projects, 6 pumping stations and 10 treatment plants. In my electorate of Shortland, as a result of this Government's assistance to the Hunter District Water Board in the past year we have seen the speeding up of the major sewerage construction scheme at Warners Bay SouthEleebana Valentine, the conduct of preparatory ground water tests at the low lying areas of Blacksmiths-Pelican, and the commencement of the sewerage construction scheme at Fennell Bay-Bolton Point. These 3 areas abut the foreshores of Lake Macquarie, the most beautiful salt water lake in Australia. a lake into which flow presently 19 surcharge and sewage outlets and a lake which was destined to become a sewage swamp unless urgent measures of assistance to the Hunter District Water Board, as provided by this Labor Government, had commenced. 
Long term loan funds amounting to $1.2m were made available to the Hunter District Water Board in 1973-74 and I am hopeful that the Board will receive a much larger sum in the Budget provisions. I was particularly pleased to hear the Minister for Urban and Regional Development announce at question time this morning that financial assistance for sewerage construction in 1974-75 will be in the form of 30 per cent non-repayable grants and 70 per cent long term loan funds. 
-Nothing would be good enough for you. This Government has repeatedly reaffirmed its pledge to upgrade the quality of our environment, and sewerage is a major part of that upgrading process. This BUI is further evidence of our determination to carry out that pledge. Earlier I mentioned Lake Macquarie and the 19 surcharge and sewage outlets that discharge into its waters. The polluted liquids that enter the lake, particularly at times of heavy rain, have a detrimental effect on the waters and on the marine life of the lake. It is not reasonable to expect the Hunter District Water Board to shoulder the blame for the present position. It is expending in excess of 50c in the $ 1 of its present revenue to service the existing debt, as is the case with most other major sewerage construction authorities in Australia today. The Board is limited in the amount it can raise by way of rate revenue from home owners. It needs approximately $125m now if it is to eliminate the total backlog of works in its region and construct adequate treatment facilities. Blacksmiths-Pelican, which has been settled for over 70 years and is an outer suburb of Newcastle adjacent to the Pacific Highway, is still serviced by a nightcart sanitary pan service, a service of winch the residents are not proud, a service which lends odours to the summer nights when the population of the area is increased by the influx of holiday makers, especially when the cans spill over. 
A few miles from Lake Macquarie on the ocean shores of Nine Mile Beach sewage from Belmont and adjacent areas is discharged raw into the sea without any treatment whatsoever, a completely unsatisfactory situation. I bring this to the attention of the Minister because I want him in the not too distant future to inspect the Nine Mile Beach outlet and the BlacksmithsPelican area in general to see the damage being caused to the area and the harm being caused to the environment and to see the conditions under which the residents live. I know the Hunter District Water Board wants to construct a treatment works, but it needs the money and I hope that the Minister, once having inspected the existing services, will want to see a proper treatment works established so that the effluent being discharged into the sea will be of an acceptable standard. 
Just a few miles further north up the coast at Burwood Beach is another Hunter District Water Board sewage outlet into the ocean. There is a simple screening process at the outlet which is the only process carried out before the effluent is discharged into the sea at a rate ranging from 10 million gallons up to 60 million gallons daily. Dependent on prevailing currents and winds, the effluent moves north to the beaches in the electorate of my colleague, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  or south down the coastline of my own electorate. Again, the construction of suitable treatment works will involve expenditure in the region of $8m to $15m, depending on the length of the outward pipe to sea. Clearly, projects of this magnitude cannot be financed internally by the Hunter District Water Board. The kind of assistance being provided in this legislation by the Australian Labor Government to the States of Victoria, Western Australia and Queensland is what is needed by the Hunter District Water Board. 
Criticism has been levelled at this Government by previous Opposition speakers because this Bill provides long term loan money. They claim that it all should be by way of a non-repayable grant. And these are the people who would not provide one cent over a period of 23 years to sewerage construction authorities. I have already mentioned the Minister's statement that the funds in the 1974-75 program will be 30 per cent nonrepayable grants and 70 per cent long term loans. It must be emphasised that when funds are made available on a non-repayable basis to develop services consideration should be given the fact that unless the charges - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member for Darling Downs was heard in silence and with courtesy. I suggest that he extend the same courtesy to the honourable member for Shortland. 
-I accept the apology. But unless the charges to the users of those services include the cost of the capital those users are subsidised in a quite arbitrary and equitable way because the subsidy is not related to need. The demand for those services may be artifically inflated. That can result in a misallocation of resources. For the benefit of the members of the Australian Country Party who were present in the chamber I point out that at pages 26 and 27 of the bible to which they ascribe- the Coombs report- a detailed explanation of the use of nonrepayable moneys and non-repayable grants is set out. 
Constant reference was made by Opposition speakers earlier to the results of the New South Wales local government elections last Saturday which they have chosen to interpret as a measure of public appreciation of the Labor Government's progressive policies towards local government. Their interpretation is wrongly based and totally inaccurate. They have neglected to state that last Saturday the Australian Labor Party won a majority on the Newcastle City Council for the first time in history and that it regained the majority in the nearby Cessnock City Council. The correct interpretation of the New South Wales local government elections is that the changes occurred in the representation in the Sydney area because of- wait for it- the low turnout of voters because the Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales some years ago abolished compulsory voting at local government elections- a determined backward move, a move which has undermined people's confidence in local government, a move which was designed to dampen public interest and a move which was successfully designed, along with the gerrymandered Sydney City Council boundaries, to put an undercover LiberalCountry Party organisation in control of the Sydney City Council. Let us hope that the Country Party Minister for Local Government in New South Wales will recognise his public responsibilities and reintroduce compulsory voting for the next local government elections, as he has promised on a number of occasions in the past 
To return to the use of the funds to be provided by this Bill, the words in each of the 3 States covered by the Bill have already commenced. Without the financial assistance that is being provided by this program of the Government to overcome the sewerage backlog and if the present sewerage authorities were left to the financial resources that existed prior to December 1972, the present backlog would extend well into the twenty-first century. Solely as a result of the programs initiated by this Government in 1973 it is confidently expected that the backlog will be eliminated by 1982-83. The deficiency in past sewerage provisions by Liberal-Country Party governments has contributed in varying degrees to other urban problems. A major one has been the pollution of ocean, lake and river waters. The deficiency in the sewerage system of East Melbourne has resulted in the pollution of beaches in nearby Port Phillip Bay. Water samplings there showing E.coli counts above the maximum permissible levels have been consistently recorded. 
-I will tell the honourable member for Boothby when he has half an hour to spare. Inadequately treated sewage from Brisbane pollutes Moreton Bay. The septic tank system in Perth is polluting the underground water in the porous sandstone beneath the city. The ground water in Perth could well become a source of drinking water. Obviously urgent action and federal financial assistance is required. That is what the Government is providing in this legislation. 
While much has been said on both sides of this chamber about the domestic needs of sewerage services little has been said about the disposal of liquid industrial wastes. The acceptable disposal of liquid industrial wastes is a most difficult problem that is facing most of our industrialised population centres. For instance in the Hunter Valley region, remembering that Australia's first steelworks were built in Newcastle 59 years ago in 1915, there is no authorised or satisfactory facility for the disposal of liquid industrial waste. Newcastle and the Hunter Valley region- the industrial capital of our nation- do not have that basic facility. Successive State and Federal governments ignored that deficiency for 59 years. The result has been the progressive pollution of ground water, streams and rivers. Daily deleterious substances are discharged into those waters. As yet there is no firm proposal to establish works to treat liquid industrial waste so that it may be discharged as an effluent of an acceptable quality into the waterways of the region. The proper disposal of persistent and hazardous liquid industrial waste is a problem that plagues aU industrial cities. In the absence of State and Federal government action in the years prior to 1972 the councils and representatives of all the responsible authorities in the region embracing the electorates of Shortland, Hunter, Lyne, Patterson and Newcastle - 
And Robertson, formed in May 1973 the Newcastle Regional Waste and Pollution Advisory Panel to find a means of establishing a suitable liquid waste disposal faculty. There are many factors that have to be examined in relation to the provision of such a facility. Consideration has to be given to the effect of the liquid industrial waste, especially the persistent and hazardous wastes, on underground waters, on mineral resources and on waterways and agricultural resources. Consideration has to be given to the short term effects as well as to the long term effects and to the possibility of the ignition of subterranean fires and the results that may follow the flooding of the area, in addition to the transportation of the liquid waste to the disposal facilities. Early in 1975 the Panel will be conducting a feasibility study in the region to determine a site and a satisfactory faculty. I feel that that is a project to which the Department of Urban and Regional Development could well give assistance and bring expertise and in which, hopefully, it could participate. The Panel Will meet on 15 October at Newcastle University. I commend its meeting to a representative of the Department of Urban and Regional Development because that is an area to which sufficient emphasis has not been given in the past. It is a problem of urban planning, particularly of industrial urban planning, and it needs top level expertise and top level people to find the answers. I commend the Panel for the initiative it has shown in developing a program to try to find the answer and to try to develop a facility 
I commend the BUI to the House. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What are the latest enrolments in (a) each electoral division in Australia; and (b) each subdivision within each electoral division. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. Does the Australian Government propose action to increase funds available to terminating building societies? Will he ensure that any increased funds are made available to those areas in which there is greatest need? 
-The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  followed the course followed by the Opposition since it came to this place in December 1972 and again in May this year, a course of deliberately setting about to frighten people, to scare individuals, to undermine public confidence and to undermine business confidence. I have said it before and I say it again: The greatest enemies of business are its representatives in this place. They have set about on a course of undermining public confidence, to create division and unrest in the community. If establishing better relations with our trading partners is playing about abroad, that is the definition of the previous  speaker.  If seeking new major markets for our produce, which is something the Opposition when in government could not do, is playing about abroad, that again is the definition of the previous  speaker.  He represents in this place an ideology which is based on divisivness and on setting one Australian against another. Yesterday in his own State there was a general strike involving 100,000 people and supported by the Law Society of Western Australiaa society, I would expect by the nature of the previous speaker's profession, of which he would be a member. 
The State which he represents was the scene of a general strike yesterday, unprecedented in this nation, of 100,000 people in opposition to the most repressive piece of legislation ever to come before an Australian parliament. I refer to the Fuel and Energy Bill now before the Western Australian Parliament, the brainchild of that great reactionary, the Premier of Western Australia  Sir Charles  Court. That is the kind of ideology that the previous  speaker  represents. That is all I have to say about it. The matter speaks for itself. 
It is unfortunate that the Opposition's approach to this debate has in the main been a negative one. Honourable members opposite have chosen to continue to carp and criticise rather than to offer constructive alternatives to the propositions put forward by the Australian Labor Government. Their constant harping on the difficulties flowing from the inflationary situation which exists in Australia and in all the industrialised non-communist countries is proof of their negative attitude to the financial problems that confront our nation and our trading partners. They deliberately ignore the fact that they in government, and particularly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  as Treasurer in 1971-72, followed a course of financial irresponsibility that generated the inflation that now affects Australia. The present excess inflation had its beginnings in Australia in 1 97 1 . 
Will anyone forget the 72-hour cliff-hanger in December 1971 when the Leader of the Opposition as Treasurer fought and lost out to the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in an attempt to revalue the Australian dollar? In the 2 years that followed, as a result of that dereliction of duty by the then Treasurer, the Right Honourable Billy Mackie Snedden, over $2,000m more was earned from exports, and about $3,000m of capital or, should I say, hot money came in from overseas. Australian banks and fringe institutions created another $2,000m or more. It was in that upsurge of money in the private sector that our domestic inflation had its beginnings. It is all very well for the Opposition to forget its past financial policies, particularly its exchange rate policies, but it is patently dishonest for the Opposition to criticise this Government's anti-inflation policies when in fact this Government inherited a greatly over-heated economy from the Opposition. 
The public should be reminded that every step- even the prices and incomes referendum of last December- that this Government has taken to control inflation since December 1972 has been blindly opposed by those who sit opposite. Like their obstructionist colleagues in another place- the Senate- whatever the Australian Labor Government proposes, they are 'agin' it even before they have heard the proposal. Inflation is the most serious problem facing the industrialised nations of the world since World War II. As the previous  speaker  said,  President  Ford of the United States of America recently declared inflation as public enemy No. 1 in the United States. He stated at the opening of the recent conference to find solutions to inflation in the United States of America that 'there is no miracle solution' to inflation and other problems. That statement needs to be driven home particularly to the Opposition and to every responsible citizen in our land. There is no miracle solution to inflation; no simple, easy answer. Honourable members opposite who attempt to lead people to believe that there is a simple, painless remedy for inflation are deceiving our nation, are building up false expectations and, by their refusal to face the reality of the situation, are sabotaging the best interests of the Australian people. To reap the longer term benefits of a lesser rate of inflation we must be prepared to endure the short term pain of corrective action. 
However, this Government will not accept a solution which embodies long term massive unemployment. That is the package deal or, should 
I say, the Snedden 'snack pack' which the Opposition proposes. Inflation is an international disease which afflicts all our trading partners. Its ultimate world solution will demand international co-operation, an international approach, and a system of international financial arrangements. As a major earner of energy resources we are in a favourable position compared with many of our neighbours. However, if Australia and other western nations pursue a 'begger thy neighbour' monetary policy, much more difficult times lie ahead for the western nations. We will not be able to remain forever an impregnable island in an international financial sea. Our neighbours' attitudes and approaches to inflation must affect the success or otherwise of Australia's efforts to regulate inflation. The decision of oil producing countries to quadruple the price of oil has posed the greatest threat for over a generation to the economy and to the political stability of the industrialised nations. The increase in the oil prices by the oil producers is the equivalent of the levying of an annual tax on the rest of the world of approximately US$70 billion. Unless this money is put back into the economies from which it has been extracted in the form of consumer and capital expenditure, it must have a contractionary effect on the economy. Australia is yet to feel the full effect of the increased oil price on its trading customers. 
The solution to international inflation lies not in individual financial policies of the nations concerned but in a joint political and financial solution evolved in co-operation with all industrialised nations and oil producing nations. What we need in Australia is a joint effort by the Government and by the private sector to develop a consensus of approach to the international financial scene. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget Speech said that the keynote of the Budget was social progress. An examination of its schedules proves the truth of that statement. For example, there was an increase of 78 per cent in expenditure on education; $7Sm was provided for pre-school and child care programs; $28m was made available to commence the construction of new hospitals in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane; provision was made for home dialysis appliances free of charge; additional funds were provided for nursing homes and for the national drug education program; a further step has been taken in the abolition of the means test for pensioners; increased rent assistance has been given to pensioners; there has been a doubling of the capital subsidy available under the Aged Persons Homes Act; a new handicapped childs allowance of $ 10 a week is to be paid to parents and guardians in respect of a child under 16 years of age who is cared for at home and who, because of the severity of the handicap, is in need of constant care and attention; a 34 per cent increase, which is $67m, is to be made available in grants to the States for welfare housing and there is the possibility of further grants should circumstances warrant. These are but a few of the many items provided for in the 1974-75 Budget which make it truly one of social progress. 
I turn now specifically to the benefits provided to local government in this Budget. In New South Wales for almost 30 years local government associations have fought for recognition of the principle that local government should receive a share from the common pool of taxation. When local government was established councils were called upon to provide only basic services which were related to property. However, in the years since World War II councils have been called upon to provide an increasing range of cultural, recreational and community services which benefit all people while revenue capacity has been limited to the collection of rates levied on property. Local government was caught in the vice of limited revenue capacity and a rising public expectation of service. It is useful to remember that in over 23 years of successive LiberalCountry Party Administrations the debt of local government multiplied 12 times. Local government authorities are borrowing more each year now than was the total amount of their outstanding debt of just over 20 years ago. 
Our opponents opposite, who regularly cry 'centralism', deliberately refused to recognise the desperate financial plight of councils. For 23 years local government was hamstrung by the Liberal-Country Party Administration in office. This Labor Government, committed to the upgrading of the status of local government, has implemented, with maximum speed, its preelection promises of financial assistance to councils under several headings. The Budget provides $56.3m in 'no strings attached' grants to 807 councils, or 92 per cent of the applicant local government bodies in Australia. The purpose of these grants is to assist councils to provide a standard of services comparable with the services enjoyed by other communities in Australia. They are not intended to replace existing State government grants or rates collected by councils. They are intended to help lift the standards of less favoured areas to a parity with average standards. 
Following the expansion of the Australian Grants Commission last year- another proposal opposed by the Opposition, which even opposed at the polls the referendum relating to local government- 876 councils made submissions to the Australian Grants Commission and 807 of them will receive assistance ranging from $3,000 up to $2m, the average grant being about $64,000. I am particularly pleased that in my own electorate of Shortland, Lake Macquarie Shire Council will receive $870,000 and Newcastle City Council $716,000. These grants will enable those councils to carry out expanded works programs, thus providing much needed services years sooner than would have been possible but for the actions of this Government. As I said earlier, the grants are not intended to replace existing State grants or rates charged by councils. It needs to be made clear that the grants are designed to equalise or top up council revenues so as to allow the councils to provide a satisfactory range and level of services. The grants are to be spent at the discretion of the councils concerned. 
The assessment of the amount of the grants was made by the Grants Commission and was based, firstly, on the revenue capacity of each applicant council as compared with constituent councils in the relevant region, consideration being given to the actual revenue being collected by the council; secondly, the required expenditure of the applicant council as compared with that of brother constituent councils in the region to provide a quality of services comparable with the services of" brother councils within the region and as compared with other regions; and, thirdly, the degree of disability or deficiency suffered by the council in the form of a physical nature, such as area, topography or distances and disability in the form of population, such as sparse population or dense population requiring a greater intensity of public services. Whilst many councils made submissions setting out projects they needed to be carried out, such projects were not a major factor in the assessment of the disability and/or deficiency of the councils. The adoption by this Government of the Aus.tralian Grants Commission's recommendations for 1974-75 is the greatest boost local government has received since Federation. It is unfortunate that some outgoing councils in New South Wales, in some cases at the final meeting of their 1971-74 term of office, saw fit to allocate expenditure of their grants aware that the grants cannot be legally available to projects before December this year. They did this to try to gain political kudos at the recent New South Wales local government elections. 

 Mr Speaker, the funds for local government in this Budget, as recommended by the Australian Grants Commission, are only the beginning. The Grants Commission, commenting on the poor quality of information submitted by some of the applicant councils, said at page 37 of its first report: 
The recommendations should not, therefore, be taken as necessarily representing the relativities that will apply in the future when the Commission has the benefit of more reliable data and better knowledge of local conditions. 
Another first for local government in this Budget is the allocation of $ 14.1m for the first year of a 3-year area improvement program spread over the 13 regions identified by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Applications in respect of this program have tended to be confused by councils with applications and submissions to the Australian Grants Commission. It needs to be pointed out also that applications under the area improvement program are for specific projects only whereas applications to the Grants Commission are for assistance by way of equalisation or by the topping up of financial assistance. 
The types of projects which have been approved under the areas improvement program are projects that have long been needed in many local government areas. The grant to the Hunter region, which comprises 18 local government bodies, representation of which I share with my colleagues, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  the honourable member for Patterson  (Mr 0'Keefe),  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  is approximately $lm. This grant will be much appreciated and will enable projects to be undertaken and services to be provided there much sooner than otherwise would have been the case. The Budget, in one word, for local government is a milestone. 
You are a millstone to the people whom you represent. The provision made in this Budget for local government is a milestone. It is to be hoped that it is only the commencement of the full and responsible role that local government plays as the third and important member of our federal system. It ought to mark the release of local governments from the captivity of the States in which they are situated. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports of claims by the New South Wales Minister for Local Government and Highways,  Sir Charles  Cutler, that the New South Wales Government will be forced to retrench 3,000 road workers because of a lack of funds from the Australian Government for road building? Are those claims factual? If not, what is the true position? 
-I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Has his attention been drawn to reports of a national oil crisis in Australia? Is there any substance in those reports or is this just another instance of panic tactics used by the spokesman for foreign mining interests in this place? 
-This Government was elected to office in December 1 972 and again in May 1 974 largely as a result of the Australian Labor Party's recognition of the difficulties faced by urban populations. For too long urban planning, local government finance and the lack of sewerage services in Australia had been deliberately ignored by our predecessors. At the outset, in speaking in support of the estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development I want to congratulate the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  on his achievements, particularly in relation to the harmonious links that he has been able to establish between the Australian Government, local government groupings and the respective State governments. Almost daily we hear wails from Australian Country Party and Liberal Party Premiers and their Ministers as well as from their Party colleagues opposite about the so-called growth of centralism. It is a puerile line of propaganda that they have peddled so often that they are coming to believe it themselves. They constantly complain about an alleged remote bureaucracy here in Canberra; saying that Canberra is distant and removed from the people. They overlook the fact that geographically Canberra is closer to more Australians than is any other capital city in Australia, located as it is almost midway between Sydney and Melbourne. 
As one who served 6 years in local government in Newcastle, the industrial capital of Australia, I have had some experience of State centralism and State bureaucracies. Ask any member of any council in New South Wales outside the Sydney metropolitan area about the slow-moving, unresponsive Sydney based bureaucracy of the New South Wales Government, how difficult it is to get decisions on local government matters, and why for over 6 years the Newcastle City Council has been trying without success to get a decision on a project most vital to the whole Hunter region- a subject that transcends party politics. I refer to the deepening of the Newcastle harbour. I am sure that my colleague the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  will support me in that. 
-I acknowledge the honourable member's remarks. Nothing needs to be said about the Liberal-Country Party State bureaucracy in Victoria other than to refer to the stinging criticisms contained in the Bland report on the Victorian Public Service. In the State where Australians are being most deprived of their proper entitlements by a reactionary and repressive Country Party State Government we saw the spectacle only a few months ago of the Premier,  Mr 'Bejoking'  Peterson standing over Queensland local government councils threatening that he would reduce State financial assistance to local government by an amount corresponding to any financial assistance that the councils may accept from the Australian Government. I do not think it will be very long before the people of Queensland begin to realise how much they are being denied the advantages available from this Government by the deliberately obstinate and obstructive tactics of the reactionary fascist State Government in Queensland. True Federalism consists of willing partners in a 3-tier system of government- local government, State government and Federal government. But the system will not work when there are only 2 willing partners- local government and the Australian Government- and while some State Premiers follow a course of determined frustration. Who are the losers? The losers are the people, and particularly the ratepayers of Queensland. What is needed is a policy of consultation, not confrontation as followed by some State Premiers, notably again the Premier of Queensland. 
In the short 22 months that the Department of Urban and Regional Development has been in existence the Minister and the Department have been the strongest proponents of consultation in Australia. Important and valued links have been established with local government units throughout the nation. The Department of Urban and Regional Development is a pioneer department creating new initiatives, providing long overdue assistance to local government bodies- assistance both material and financial. Reference to the second annual report of the Department will show those initiatives. They include growth centres such as that to be administered by the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation; the Cities Commission; area improvement programs; the regional groupings of local government; the Glebe renewal project; the Rocks project; land commissions to develop and stabilise the price of housing sites; the inquiry by  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell into land tenures; the national sewerage backlog reductions program for which $30m was provided in 1973-74 and for which $103m is provided in the current Budget; the inquiry by  Mr Justice  Hope into the national estate; the Grants Commission; and the national program for urban and regional development. All of these initiatives have been achieved by a policy of consultation, not confrontation as is practised by some State Premiers and Ministers. 
The Department's role has been one of consultation and co-ordination backed by the first ever acceptance by a Federal Government of Federal responsibility for these new initiatives. By seeking an atmosphere of cordiality in which all parties can gain a broader perspective of the issues at stake the Department of Urban and Regional Development, led by the Minister, has done much since this Government came to office in 1972 to find tangible solutions to the particular problems of urban and regional living conditions. I can do no better than to quote from the 'West Australian' newspaper of 10 July 1973 in which an article on the 1973 Australian Labor Party Federal Conference reported the Minister as saying: 
Cities and urban development were areas in which the Federal Government did not aim to be centralist. It wanted to build a bridge of co-operation with the States, local government and the private sector, to achieve more efficient cities and a better life style. 
Co-operative federalism requires that every opportunity is sought to pool the resources and initiatives of all levels of government- a fact that some State governments and the Opposition constantly ignore. But one of the most significant developments that has followed the operations of the Department of Urban and Regional Development has been the recognition of community participation in the decision-making process. There has been a continuing and developing discussion with a wide range of representatives of professional, industrial, land development, finance and other groups over the preceding 12 months. We have recognised that individual citizens and voluntary associations have a role to play in determining the development and use of their regions and cities. We have recognised that public participation is a right, not a privilege. It is true that there are problems yet to be overcome, but they are problems that cooperation and goodwill can and will overcome. 
I want to say something now about what to me is probably the most important development in Australia since Federation, and that is the general desire in local government for the expansion of the concept of regionalism. It is in this area that the Department of Urban and Regional Development has played a most important part. We are all conscious of the deficiencies of local government. We are all conscious that local government authorities are the creatures of State governments, and we are all conscious of the fact that our opponents in their 23 years of administration presided over a 12 times multiplication of outstanding local government debt. The Australian Treasury in its 1973 submission to the Grants Commission stated: 
From views current from State inquiries into local government there were too many relatively small local authority units and therefore the operations of the Commission should not be such as to discourage the amalgamation of local governing bodies into more viable economic and administrative units. 
The Australian Labor Party has long accepted that local government should have access to financial assistance from the Federal Treasury. The Department of Urban and Regional Development has been the responsible Department in assisting local government since we came to office. Firstly, in the formation of regional groupings, 889 councils made application for recognition under the Australian Grants Commission Act. Sixty-eight regional groups were approved by the Minister. Each grouping made application for financial assistance under the terms of the Act, and 92 per cent of the councils that made applications will receive no strings attached non-repayable grants ranging from $3,000 to $2m and totalling $56.3m. That is the evidence that local government wants regional groupings and wants to cooperate with the Australian Government. I should point out to Country Party members opposite that the grants from the Grants Commission - 
-You will get them in December. Just be patient. You are getting them because of an Australian Labor Government and for no other reason. Grants, if considered on a per capita basis, show a bias in favour of rural authorities due to the use of land values, which have not increased as fast in rural areas, as the basis for measurement of taxable capacity. Members of the Country Party would not know that because they have not read the report of the Grants Commission and are not interested in reading it. Throughout Australia only 13 local government bodies declined to accept membership of regional bodies. 
Secondly, the Department of Urban and Regional Development has been responsible for the development of the area improvement program under which 13 regions will share $ 14m in the first year of a 3-year program. This program is to be used to finance projects, including land acquisition, drainage, planning and development procedures, conservation and provision of community amenities. The area improvement program is intended to be a valuable complement to the untied grants made available to local government through the Grants Commission. I am especially pleased that the Hunter region, which encompasses my electorate, is to receive $lm under the area improvement program this year. The concept of regionalism in local government is rapidly developing as a result of the policies of this Government and, in particular, of this Department. I congratulate the Minister and his Department on their efforts and I commend the estimates to the Committee. 
-I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: What has been the effect on State Government finances of the Australian Government's action in obtaining higher export prices for minerals such as coal? Further, has there been an increased demand for employees in the extracted mineral industries? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many socialistic organisations, such as statutory authorities, marketing boards and co-operatives, and producer co-operatives, were established by the Liberal/Country Party Government in fields of production, distribution and exchange during the period 1949 to 1972. 
What is the name, main function and year of establishment of each of these organisations. 
What similar organisations were disbanded in the .same period, and what was the main function and year of disbandment in each case. 
-I listened with interest to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  It is a pity that over and over again members of the Opposition concentrate an attack on creating division and divisiveness and in trying to present a picture of continual acrimony and bitterness between various levels of government. This is something on which their ideology is based- a class society. They cannot accept that government within Australia and the management of our nation are matters in which all Australians should participate and in respect of which there should be a common objective. The bitterness of having been defeated in 1972 and again a few months ago has not been digested by members opposite. They do Australia and the people of Australia a great disservice by continually presenting a picture of bitterness and of almost hatred. One can almost sense in their words at times the hatred they have developed towards Canberra. They forget that most of what happens in Canberra was developed, enlarged and expanded upon in policies laid down during their 23 years of administration. It seems almost a betrayal of their own actions to continue along on that course. 
The honourable member for Boothby spoke about the establishment of the housing advisory bureau. The Department of Housing and Construction is establishing a housing advisory service, the details of which have already been circulated to State Ministers for Housing for their comments. Mention was made also of the amounts allocated to the States. The amounts allocated are on the basis that the Australian Government is prepared to consider granting additional finance if the States can show that they have the capacity to construct more houses and if the state of the building industry will permit it. As recently as yesterday we heard the announcement of an additional $8m for the Queensland Government, so let us forget the idea that there is a fixed amount. If it can be shown that the building industry in a State has the capacity to construct homes and the housing commission is able to utilise funds, additional funds will be available. 
The honourable member for Boothby made another misrepresentation when he referred to the Victorian Minister for Housing,  Mr Dickie.  If I recall correctly, he said that  Mr Dickie  could not get a hearing from the Federal Government and walked out of the Housing Ministers' Conference on 1 1 October. That was a direct misrepresentation. The facts are these: 

 Mr Dickie said to the conference: 
Unfortunately, I have to catch a plane at 2.20. There are 2 items on the agenda- the Australian Housing Corporation and the Australian Housing Research Council. Will they take more than a quarter of an hour or 20 minutes to discuss? 
The Australian Minister for Housing,  Mr Les  Johnson, said: 
It is up to the meeting. I cannot measure the time. 
There was another  speaker, Mr Lowe.  Then the Australian Minister for Housing said: 
I have a lead-in statement here. I would be very happy to make a copy of it available to  Mr Dickie  since he is leaving early. I intend to read it as an open to that agenda item. The position is that there is a motion before the meeting and it has been carried, If that would suit your purpose,  Mr Dickie,  it would serve to inform you to the extent that most people seek to be informed. 
The conference then adjourned for lunch. I think that quite clearly shows what actually took place. The honourable member for Boothby sought to show that there was acrimony at that meeting and that a State Minister who was present was not able to gain a hearing. As I have said, the facts show that the opposite was the case. The Minister was given an opportunity. He had to leave to catch an aircraft. The remarks of the honourable member are completely untrue. 
This Bill involves advances by the Australian Government of $3 10m for welfare housing in 1974-75, almost double the amount spent by the States in the last year of the Liberal-Country Party Government. Not only is the amount of money advanced generous. The terms on which it is made available are also extremely generous. 
The advances made are repayable over 53 years. The rate of interest charged is fixed at 4 per cent per annum for advances to the State housing authorities and 416 per cent per annum in respect of advances allocated to the Home Builders Account. This compares with the rate previously charged- 1 per cent below the bond rate- which was charged under previous agreements. 
One can only imagine the plight of the State housing authorities and of those whom they accommodate if this highly concessional interest rate had not been written into the agreement. I realise that honourable members opposite claim that the current high level of the bond rate would not apply if they had still been in government. But the fact of the matter is that interest rates did rise under previous Liberal-Country Party governments and there is no doubt that in the face of world wide inflationary pressures they would have risen to higher levels if the Liberals had still been in government. 
-You fell. It is also a fact that the unprecedented boom conditions which forced the Government to take restraining action were the result of the unplanned explosion in the money supply which took place in the dying days of that Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972. In a desperate effort to stay in office the previous Government allowed the money supply to increase by an alarming 17 per cent in the last half of 1972. This compared with annual increases of between 6 per cent and 8 per cent in previous years. In these circumstances it is little wonder that the building industry was awash with funds. The value of loans by banks, building societies and life offices almost trebled in the 2 years, from $1250m in 1970-71 to $2,987m in 1972-73. Yet in face of this staggering increase no attempt was made by the previous Government to increase the supply of labour or materials. No attempt was made to encourage young men to enter the building industry. Certainly the generous inducements to apprenticeships which this Government has made were never contemplated by our predecessors. The results of this absence of planning were greatly lengthening construction times, skyrocketing land costs and unprecedented price rises for building materials. In the field of welfare housing, the result was that part of the record amounts made available by this government were left unspent. Over $25m was unspent because State Housing authorities could not attract  tenderers in a highly strained industry. If this Government had not taken responsible action, if it had not introduced restraints, there would have been little hope of stepping up activities in the welfare housing area and as well most homeseekers in the private housing market would have been permanently excluded by rising costs from ever purchasing their own home. 
The need for restraining action was fully realised by the then honourable member for Wentworth,  Mr Leslie  Bury, who spoke in this House last year on the housing agreement bill. He is reported in Hansard of 1 May at page IS 1 1 in this way: 
If the Government does nothing at all to restrain the development of the building sector the inflationary problem will become worse and worse. 
He went on to say : 
The pressure has to be eased. Someone has to take the unpopular role of reducing the pressure on the building industry .. . the present rate of expansion which is quite unsuitable will build up pressures more and more. I hope the Minister for Housing will play his part to make sure that this industry- as important as it is- will keep on a very even keel. 
Of course this advocacy of restraint has been forgotten by those opposite. It is alien to their political nature to advocate responsible action. 
There are some other comments made by the former member for Wentworth in that debate which are worth drawing to mind. They relate to the emphasis which the 1973 Housing Agreement gave to the building up of a stock of rental accommodation for those sections of the community unable to afford their own homes. I know that this concept is repugnant to the Liberal and Country Parties. I know that they believe that those who cannot afford to buy a house of their own should not be assisted with low cost rental housing. We heard the honourable member for Boothby emphasising this when he talked about concessional rates of interest for home building. I know that they use our concern for the plight of these people falsely to assert that in some way we are opposed to home ownership. It is worth recalling therefore the comments made by their former Treasurer and Minister for Housing, the honourable member for Wentworth,  Mr Bury,  who stated, on 1 May 1 973 in this chamber: 
There are some features of the Bill which I would like to mention and to commend on the whole. One of the obvious shortages in Australia is housing for rental. We have probably reached the stage where home ownership has been relatively over-done. We now have an increasingly mobile population which needs to shift from place to place and not to undertake long term commitments like buying a house. These people need to rent houses and to be able to move quickly from one place to another and from one job to another. This is a requirement which is most acutely felt amongst the lower income groups. I do not believe that the housing commissions run by the States, which diner very much between themselves, have given proper recognition to the basic problem. That is more rental accommodation, particularly housing, for the lower income group. Unfortunately, housing for rental has declined for a number of reasons, one of which is the construction activities of State housing commissions. These vary from State to State. 
He went on to say: 
The housing commissions are so wrapped up in construction that this is what they want to do above all. It is their policy. The advice which the commissioners give to their Ministers is to obtain as much money from the Commonwealth as possible and then to sell as many homes as they can so that they get the money back and fill up their coffers. Then they can turn over their investment and build still more houses and sell them. They are overdoing it. Money for housing which is provided by the Government should be for social purposes. It should be used to improve the lot of the lower income people who cannot afford housing. This diversion of housing commission resources into building for sale has absorbed altogether too much of their total resources. Every house which the housing commissions build and merely rent freezes their funds for a long time and they do not get the joy and privilege of building still more houses and building up their functions. This advice is continually poured into the ears of the housing commissioners, some of whom are unsuspecting and new to the job. 
I believe that public moneys for housing have been in some degrees misapplied. For instance, many houses sold by the State housing commissions have worked out as a nice little capital gains for their purchasers. There is a great contrast between the automobiles and the other exhibits of wealth which surround many housing commission homes and the incomes of those within them. In this field I believe that the Minister is right in tilting the housing commission operations much more towards the provision of rental accommodation which is what Australia badly needs overall. 
Those comments were made not by a member of the Government but by a then member of the Opposition who was a former Minister for Housing in the Liberal-Country Party Administration and a former Treasurer of that Government. He made those only 17 months ago. We on this side of the House are proud of the emphasis the 1973 Agreement gives to rental accommodation and the Government's commitment to assisting home ownership is also underlined by the amendments which this Bill will make. 
The amendment which this Bill makes to clause 9 of the Agreement will permit the allocation to a State's Home Builders Account of more than 30 per cent of the total advance to that State. This 30 per cent nexus had the effect last year of preventing the allocation of additional funds for private home purchase by needy persons at a time when housing authorities were unable to let contracts for dwelling construction in the numbers hoped for because of excessive demands on the building industry. This latest amendment to the legislation has been agreed to by all State Ministers and is a sensible approach to take. Again, this is in contrast to the picture which the previous speaker tried to conjure up of acrimony and argument between the Australian 
Minister for Housing and the respective State Ministers. I repeat that the latest amendment to the legislation has been agreed to by all State Ministers as a sensible and responsible approach to take. It is a pity that the Liberal-Country Party members of the State parliaments cannot pass over to their opposites in this place some of the capacity to have dialogue with the Australian Government. 
I also applaud the exclusion of overtime from a person's income in determining his eligibility for a Home Builders Account loan, which has been made in response to representations from the co-operative terminating society movement. I also welcome the undertaking given by the Minister, and agreed to by all Housing Ministers at their meeting on 1 1 October to look at a new formula to establish eligibility within the means test under the agreement. As honourable members will know, the percentage of average weekly earnings used under the agreement is based on the December quarter figures- traditionally the highest for the year. In an inflationary situation  v  however this is no longer necessarily the case. As a result it is possible that a person who qualifies in the December quarter, might lose his eligibility during the year but become eligible again in the next December quarter. By establishing a new basis the obvious difficulties caused for some people will be overcome. 
I also want to congratulate the Government on the significant moves taken to reverse the very recent decline in building industry activity. These include the measures taken in the Budget, the easing of monetary policy, devaluation, easing of overseas capital inflows, increasing the proportion of savings bank deposits lent for housing, increased funds through the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement and last night's injection of $ 1 SOm to the savings bank system. One of the significant differences between this Government and our predecessors is that when the building industry was in a downturn the LiberalCountry Party Government at the time let it fight its own way out of trouble, whereas this Government stands by ready to take strong and effective re-stimulatory measures quickly. I commend the Bill to the House. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Bearing in mind the large increase in the export earnings of the coal industry and the expansion of employment opportunities that have flowed from the policies and actions of the Government, is the Minister able to advise honourable members what further action is proposed to boost coal industry earnings and whether this will mean more jobs? 
It is a pity that the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  did not see fit to regard this Bill as having the importance that it deserves but sought instead to continue the tirade against so-called centralism, allegedly trying to protect the interests of the States. The honourable member for Boothby ignores the fact completely that the mere fact that the Bill is before the House today is the result of strenuous efforts and complete co-operation between officers at State and local government levels and officers of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. It is obvious that as the spokesman in this place for the Opposition on urban and regional development, he has not studied the Bill and he has not given consideration to its provisions. I would say that he is not really concerned with its provisions and the assistance that it will give to local government and to the general standard of living in our communities. 
Of all people, he choose to cite the Premier of Western Australia as some sort of authority on co-operative federalism. The Premier of Western Australia could very well join, in that minority of Liberal-Country Party Premiers, with the Premier of Queensland in seeking to divide the Australian people- in seeking almost to want to create farmers republics or the re-erection of the State boundary fences- when it is in the real interests of the people of this nation that we ought to be developing as a nation, not as individual sections of a nation. As I said, it is a pity that the honourable member for Boothby chose to follow that course. That his remarks did not have any substance is evidenced by the Bill before us and the efforts that have been put into achieving that Bill. 
This Bill, the Urban and Regional (Financial Assistance) Bill 1974, is only a short Bill with some 1 1 clauses but it represents a milestone in the development of our democratic system of 3-tier co-operative federalism. It is a result of harmonious interaction and consultation between State governments, local governments and this Australian Government. The provision of this Bill will mean the implementation of continuing schemes for the improvement of the quality of living conditions for hundreds of thousands of Australians. It provides for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in consultation- not confrontation as the honourable member for Boothby would havewith appropriate State Ministers to approve programs of urban and regional development for each of the States. It provides for agreement by the Australian Government with a State government for financial assistance to be made available for expenditure by the State or an approved body in the State for approved programs. Significantly, it provides that all such agreements should be tabled in this Parliament. 
Our system of co-operative federalism requires that all 3 levels of government- Federal, State and local government- co-operate and consult in their endeavours if the system is to operate for the benefit of our people. It is unfortunate- in fact it is deplorable- that our opponents seek to create dissension, division and dissatisfaction between the various levels of government when it was the wish of the majority of Australians that there should be proper recognition by federal government of the financial burdens of local government. This Government is committed to uplifting the status of local government by assisting it to meet its financial commitments. We received that mandate in December 1972 and a majority of Australians confirmed it as recently as 6 months ago. The financial measures contained in this Bill will do much to assist councils to carry out special projects of regional need and community value- projects that are long overdue and projects which local government authorities have been unable to finance in the past because of their limited capacity to raise revenue. 
Following on the expansion of the Australian Grants Commission, which involved the recognition of 74 regional groupings of councils in Australia and the recognition of these groupings by the Minister, we have seen the most exciting development in local government since federation. I refer to the growth of the concept of regionalism and its ready acceptance by the men and women who give their services willingly and selflessly as aldermen and councillors of the 900 odd municipal and shire councils. Councils have welcomed the opportunity to join regional groupings and many have enthusiastically developed regional approaches to problems to their areas as compared with the previous restrictive parochial approach in many councils of: 'What will it cost us? How much will we get out of it for our area?'. One of the leaders in the development of regionalism has been the Hunter region. I will come back to that later. As agovernment we have been continually subjected to charges of centralism or Canberra centralism by the Opposition and some of their counterpartsI emphasise some of their counterparts -in State parliaments. But the fact is that centralism that has operated to the detriment of community standards and values in the past has been that of State centralism- the Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane based State bureaucracies. One only has to ask anybody who is serving or who has served in local government in the past 25 years to get some account of that. 
In Newcastle we have been seeking for 6 years to get a decision from the New South Wales State Premier on the deepening of the bar at the Port of Newcastle where ships are lined up, 20 abreast, outside the Port of Newcastle waiting to load coal and wheat. We have the Country Party members opposite complaining about the sale and export of wheat when the ships cannot get into the harbour. The man responsible for a decision is a Liberal-Country Party State Premier. Under our constitution, local government is a creature of the States; rather, it is a captive of the States. Our approach to local government and our encouragement of the development of regionalism and the ready acceptance of it by local government refutes the claims of centralism that are made against us. We have deliberately followed a course of making local government a vehicle for our legislation. This Bill represents another step along that road. 
There are great differences in the standard of living conditions of people in the various regions of Australia. These include differences in job opportunities, housing conditions, wealth, income, educational opportunities, community and recreational facilities, transport services and communications. These differences apply significantly as between urban and rural communities and as between cities and country towns. It is worth noting that when the Australian Grants Commission brought down its recommendationsthey were adopted by this Parliament only a few days ago- the clamour again from the Opposition was in regard to the size of those grants and a comparison of the value of the grants that were awarded to councils. If we examine the grants individually and compare them in per capita terms as between the councils concerned, we find that there is a distinct bias in favour of rural councils. For instance, metropolitan councils placed in category 1 received an average per capita grant of $2.36. The larger provincial towns and cities in category 3-1 received an average per capita grant of $6.82. The average per capita grant for sparsely populated shires in category 6 was $9.61. The reason for this is that the rural councils suffer disabilities by way of their sparseness of population and their limited capacity to raise revenue. That is recognised in our concept of regionalism and the approach to try to bring some sort of equality in revenue raising capacities and works programs to the councils concerned. 
Our approach in trying to present a real solution to these differences is regionalism. It is a response to differences and an acceptance that government intervention in our social and economic system has to be designed on a regional basis. It is an attempt to meet the problem of subState differences with sub-State solutions developed with the participation, wherever possible, of the citizens of the regions and their representatives on regional bodies. Our commitment is to upgrade and strengthen local government, not to weaken local government and State governments as our opponents misrepresent our endeavours. The method of implementing that commitment is by having local councils group together into regional bodies on boundaries agreed to between the Australian Government and the respective State governments. To suggest that there is conflict between the State governments and this Federal Government on regionalism or the recognition of the regional bodies is a complete misrepresentation. We would not have had the establishment of the 74 regions or the 100 per cent participation of councils in the project unless there had been conciliatory dialogue between the State, Federal and local governments and agreement with the respective State Ministers to the whole proposition. 
These regions have received recognition by the Australian Government and the State governments. As the Australian Government implements regional programs, these programs and the proposals are cleared through the regional organisations of the councils. That is, proposals are submitted for comment which will have equal status with the original proposals. In this way, the regional organisation of councils develops a perspective of its region's development with regard to the Australian Government and a perspective assisted by establishing policy advisory committees which help the regional organisation to develop expertise and also link it firmly to its regional population. Finally, discussions take place with State governments about integrating their programs regionally and the joint use of the regional organisations of councils as the core of a comprehensive, multifunctional regional planning body receiving support from the Australian and State governments and incorporating into its planning activities existing programs such as the Australian Assistance Plan, community health centres, legal aid officers and child care programs. There are now 76 regions recognised for use by the Australian Government and every council- I emphasise that- of the 900-odd councils in Australia has agreed to join the regional organisation in its area. In the majority of cases the regions adopted are those already preferred for general State purposes or utilised for general State planning purposes. These regions will become common to all Australian Government regional programs wherever possible. For example, I mention regional councils under the Australian Assistance Plan, the area improvement programs, the community health program, employment and manpower planning and assistance to local government through the Grants Commission recommendations. 
To assist in the administration cost of the regional organisations $2,000 will be made available to each of the 76 regional organisations and an additional $8,000 will be allocated on merit of application to 20 regional organisations. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Boothby, tried to ignore the complete support of local government for this Government's efforts to assist local government. As recently as a few days ago the Australian Council of Local Government Associations met in conference at Alice Springs and carried the following resolution: 
That the Australian Government be requested to introduce on a gradual developmental basis area improvement programs to cover all regions in Australia. 
That 13 regions have been accepted for the area improvement program is to the credit of the personnel of the councils concerned, the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the Minister himself, bearing in mind the physical and financial and time limitations that they were facing in forming and assessing the priorities of regions in the short space of 22 months. 
As I said earlier, one of the leaders in the development of the regional approach has been the Hunter region. It embraces the councils in the Hunter Valley. Certainly it could not be suggested that those councils are Labororientated. The councils in that area include the councils of Denman, Dungog, Gloucester, Great Lakes, Greater Cessnock, Lake Macquarie, Maitland, Merriwa, Murrundi. Muswellbrook, Newcastle, Patrick Plains, Port Stephens, Scone and Singleton. The plan of organisations and the appointment of committees by that Hunter region could well be followed by all of the other regions in the nation. Three specialist committees have been appointed. Those 3 committees examine the proposals that are brought forward by the constituent councils and make a recommendation to the executive committee. In addition, some of the regions- this is to the credit of the councils concerned- have seen fit to allocate a portion of their grant from the Grants Commission towards meeting the cost of the administration of the regions in their areas. Again this is evidence that local government has taken the initiative itself, that it wants to be involved and that it fully supports the efforts of this Australian Government. 
As I said earlier, the Opposition is labouring in the past if it tries to continue the misrepresentation that there is conflict between the State governments and the Federal Government in relation to the Department of Urban and Regional Development programs. Area improvement programs have long been a plank of Australian Labor Party policy. We seek to provide money for projects of a regional significance to the councils of the regions concerned and to help overcome the deficiencies from which the constituent councils suffer. I know that we have the full support of local government in our endeavours in this legislation. I commend the Minister for what he has been able to achieve thus far and I commend the Bill to the House. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) What Australian Government offices are located in Newcastle. 
what is the square footage of (a) rented office space and (b) office space in buildings owned by the Australian Government in Newcastle. 
How many persons are employed by the Australian Government in Newcastle. 
What is the rental paid by the Australian Government for office space in Newcastle. 
-As usual the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  sees bad in all, even in this Bill despite the statement by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  for the Opposition, that the Opposition is supporting this legislation. I suppose that our Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would refer to the honourable member for Parramatta as a knocking Nellie. It would be a very apt term for him. But when he refers to leaders in commerce and to business judgments I think he fails to recognise that most leaders in commerce recognise their responsibility to the community and readily accept those responsibilities. He does not seem to realise it is bad business politics for a firm to ignore its public responsibilities. The honourable member referred to the duplication and triplication of the preparation of environmental impact statements. Apparently he also did not see that section of the Minister's second reading speech which refers to the participation with State governments. It states: 
This will mean that where 2 governments are involved in examining a proposal, only one statement will be needed. 
The Minister said further: 
The Australian Government will have to rely to a large extent on State government advice in assessing the environmental consequences of proposals in which it is involved and which are being developed in the States. 
I see no danger of and am not concerned at the possible duplication of environmental impact statements. I support the legislation now before the House, the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to ensure that full consideration is given to the environmental factors involved in the Government's decision-making through the use of the environmental impact statement technique and public inquiries. Throughout Australia there is widespread concern for the management of the environment both in urban and in non-urban areas. In the metropolitan areas there is rapidly growing congestion caused by people, automobiles, heavy transport, factories and the like. In the regions which are the centres of agriculture, mining, services and out-of-town recreation and tourism, there is also concern about the environment in terms of the multiple use of resources and investment in them. All of these result to some degree in financial charges to the Australian Treasury. So it has a direct interest in the decisions which are made. There is a pressing need for evaluations of the impact on the urban and rural environment. The Bill's provisions will apply to proposals which are being developed by Australian Government departments or instrumentalities and to situations where Australian Government money is involved or where Australia 's constitutional power is involved. 
In the past insufficient attention has been given to consideration of the impact on the environment of actions flowing from decisions that were taken. The provisions for the publishing of environmental impact statements and the conduct of public inquiries are in line with the Australian Labor Party's policy of open government, of informing the people, of enabling public participation in the decision-making process. In recent years increasing concern from all parts of the political spectrum has been expressed that inadequate consideration was being given to the environmental effect of decisions taken. Generally, economic and technical considerations have overridden the environmental aspects of proposals. Many of our existing environmental problems of today- of noise pollution, air pollution, waste disposal, reduction of amenitywould not have arisen if there had been procedures available for a complete assessment of the impact on the environment of the proposed developments. 
I do not mean to criticise unduly those responsible for past decisions taken, because it is only in relatively recent years that the peoples of the world have come to realise the dangers to the human race and the damage that has been done by ill-considered development. The economic aspects had more or less always been the major element in planning development- in other words, whether or not a profit could be made or a desirable service provided. 
In my own region, the Hunter region, steel works and associated industries that have polluted the waterways and atmosphere could not be constructed today in the manner in which or the location in which they have been established since 1915. In the Sydney region, Botany Bay would still have most of its own natural qualities if environmental assessments had been carried out before industries and port developments were commenced. We cannot turn the clock back but we can plan and manage the future. After all, the environment does not belong wholly and solely to us. We have only a loan of it from those generations who will follow us and we have a heavy responsibility to pass it on to those who follow in the future in at least as good condition as we received it but preferably in a better condition. This legislation is the first national approach to that objective. 
The concept of environmental assessment is not new. The fact is that as a nation we are trailing the efforts of our trading partners. We aim through this Bill to protect the environment in 2 ways; firstly, by use of the information obtained in the environmental assessments themselves- the factors threatened, the alternatives and the best course to follow having in mind a full consideration of all factors involved; secondly, by the educative process inherent in public hearings that may be held in association with the preparation of assessments. Some people may see the need for preparation of environmental assessments as another round of red tape to be overcome- a further unnecessary cost to be incurred by the taxpayer and a possible further delay in the planning process. Nothing could be further from the truth. We hope that, unlike the past when economic considerations were the prime considerations that influenced the decision-making process, in the future consideration of the environmental impact of proposals will take place along with the consideration of the economic features, hand in hand: that is, a parallel process, a marrying of the econ. omics and the effect on the total environment of the proposed development. 
It is envisaged that proposals which could have a significant effect on the environment and which involve the Australian Government specifically or by use of grant moneys, or specified loan funds or projects which involve the constitutional powers of the Australian Governmentsuch as the woodchip industry and mining activities- will need to be examined before export licences are granted. It goes without saying that this legislation will mean there will be considerable scope for co-operation with State environmental authorities- a complementary activity. It is to the credit of the States that all States except Western Austraia have procedures, or are in the process of developing procedures, for the requirement of impact statements on those matters that fall within the State sphere of responsibility. In the Australian Environment Council there has already been basic agreement on what impact statements should cover. Where 2 governments are involved in examining a proposal only one statement Wi be needed. Thus it is expected that as experience in the use of the environmental assessment technique develops, a decision on whether or not a proposal should be the subject of an impact statement will become a relatively simple matter and the preparation of the statement will be part and parcel of any initial consideration of a proposal. 
While objection may be taken to the Minister having the authority to determine whether a statement is required and a public inquiry is to be held, that is preferable to the less satisfactory provision in the United States of a flat statutory requirement and is less likely to lead to the problems being experienced in that country in the use of techniques. It will be at the Minister's discretion to determine whether a public inquiry is to be held but it is to be expected that only in few cases public inquiries will be necessary. However, it also needs mentioning that the Minister will have the power to order a public inquiry where an impact statement has not been prepared. The provisions in the Bill for participation by the people in public inquiries are of major importance and represent a victory for the supporters of community expression of concern for planning and care of environment. The people want to be involved. They want the opportunity to put their point of view on the impact of suggested proposals on their life style, on the quality of surroundings and the amenity of the area in which the proposal is to be located. 
I can think of no better example of the driving desire for public expression than that encompassed in the report tabled yesterday of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation. The report deals with the Committee's inquiry into the impact of New South Wales State highway 23 on Blackbutt Reserve in my own electorate. The recommendations of the Committee, which were against the construction of State highway 23, were a triumph for the people of the Newcastle area in that the fears that they had been expressing publicly and privately for 8 long years were upheld by the committee. For 8 long years interested members of the public were denied the opportunity of a public forum where evidence for all points of view could have been given on oath and an impartial decision made based on the evidence given. It is to the discredit of the New South Wales Department of Main Roads that the Department denied the people that opportunity. If environmental impact legislation had been in existence since Federation the 8-year argument over Blackbutt Reserve would have been avoided. Elsewhere injurious chemicals would not have poured into the Hunter river year after year. Lake Munmorah in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  would still be providing the harvest of fish and prawns that it used to produce until the advent of rutile mining and electricity generation after World War II. 
The people of Stockton in the Lyne electorate would not be subjected to the discomfort and the irritants of air pollution from nearby Kooran.gang Island if an environmental impact statement had been prepared prior to the construction of its industries. Coal trucks blighting the whole of the Hunter region presently could have been avoided if there had been environmental impact statements into mining development and transport of coal. I do not blame the coal truck owners. They are providing a necessary service. But the State Government is deserving of the strongest criticism for not having foreseen the need for adequate rail transport facilities from pithead to port. Roads are clogged by these gigantic coal trucks. People are being assaulted by their noise, fumes and dust from spillage. Quiet streets and back roads have become noise horrors. Busy roads have become congested because government has not planned or produced proper rail transport facilities. 
Coal is bringing great wealth to our nation, but people are being seriously damaged by noise, by loss of privacy, by loss of quiet occupancy of their homes, by greater danger on the roads and by the degrading of the quality of the amenity of their neighbourhood. This legislation follows the greatest grass roots movements of the people in modern Australian history which has been centred around protection of the environment. It is essential that there should be full and proper provision for public expression of opposing viewpoints on controversial proposals. I think this legislation does make that provision. When there is no public forum for expression there is fertile ground for suspicion and mistrust by all parties which further compounds the controversy. The taking of evidence on oath by the hearing Commissioners will dispel much of that ground of mistrust and suspicion. In all controversies there has to be a reconciliation of opposing viewpoints. That is another of the values of the public inquiry provisions of this legislation. 
There is little we can do to change our mistakes of the past. The present state of pollution is a result of inadequate planning and inadequate consideration in the development of our factories, mines, motor cars, waste disposal, means of transport, air pollution and water pollution. The time has arrived when we should survey our Australian environment, raise our standards and change our practices. We must plan for the optimum control utilisation for our country to provide an acceptable environment for both present and future generations. I commend the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I ask the Minister for the Northern Territory: What progress has been made in the receipt and disbursement by the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund of the millions of dollars most generously given by Australian citizens to assist victims of the cyclone disaster of last December? 
-Has the attention ofthe Prime Minister been drawn to reports of new threats to obstruct the introduction of Medibank and the abolition of health insurance contributions? Does the Government propose to take these threats seriously? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What technical facilities are provided by the Postmaster-General's Department to (a) television and (b) radio stations for use in association with the conduct of telethon or similar fund raising appeals. 
Does the Department charge for these facilities; if so what were the rates charged on each occasion during the last 2 years. 
What charges were levied by the Department on each (a) television and (b) each radio station in respect of each telethon conducted during the last 2 years. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports of a contraction in the world demand for oil and a downward trend in oil prices? Do those reports have any substance? If so, how do they compare with the Australian Government's policy on oil prices? Finally, how do they compare with demands by spokesmen in this nation for a major increase in oil prices in Australia? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction, relates to the defence service homes insurance scheme. I draw the Minister's attention to the damage which was incurred in Brisbane in February 1974 and in New South Wales in May 1974. Can the Minister inform the House of the range of cover provided for policy holders under the defence service homes insurance scheme? Were all claims fully covered? During those periods, did the Minister receive applications and inquiries from members of the public wishing to insure under an arrangement similar to the defence service homes insurance scheme? 
I welcome the opportunity to speak in support of the Trade Practices Bill 1975. At a later stage I will make some comment on the progress made thus far in the implementation of the provisions of the main Act, the Trade Practices Act 1974. The object of this Bill as stated is, firstly, to amend the Trade Practices Act 1974 to prohibit the sending of unsolicited credit cards and, secondly, by amendments to sections 62 and 63 of the existing Act, to permit consumer product safety and information standards to be prescribed so as to exclude goods which are intended to be used outside Australia. This will overcome the problem of Australian exporters having to attempt to comply with incompatible standards; for example, where Australian standards differ from overseas standards. It also will prevent inconsistencies arising with regard to standards set pursuant to Australian export regulations. 
In our present business world a large percentage of trading is conducted on credit, and it is in the area of credit transactions that credit cards are coming to fulfil an increasingly important, convenient and in many ways desirable function. The need for these amendments was demonstrated by the large scale dispatch by Australian banks last year of unsolicited credit cards and also by the large number of complaints surrounding the dispatch of Gold Key credit cards in Queensland. The effect of the amendments in respect of credit cards will be that credit cards will be able to be sent only in pursuance of a written request by the person who will be liable on use of the card or to replace a card which had been previously requested in writing or properly used by the person, such as would be the case where a person properly made use of an unsolicited card sent by mail. It is true that the present Trade Practices Act has provisions relating to unsolicited goods, but these are inappropriate for credit cards. 
The terms and nature of the credit standing of a citizen with a creditor is a personal and private matter of concern between the citizen and the creditor- be it bank, lender or vendor- and, as such, details of credit rating should be privy only to the citizen and the creditor involved. The mass distribution last year of unsolicited credit cards showing limits of credit available was a serious breach of that privacy. A number of other undesirable events flowed out of that mass distribution of cards. In some cases the issue of cards was duplicated. People received and used cards to which they were not properly entitled. People whose cards were fraudulently used by other persons were put to the unnecessary trouble of proving that they had not used the cards. Some people were caused anxiety because on receiving the credit cards they felt they had some commitment to use them. 
The Bankcard executive itself admits that there have been some 80 to 100 cases of fraudulent use of bankcards since their introduction, involving amounts on average of $400 to $500 but ranging up to $2,800. 1 return to the point of privacy. The Bankcard credit rating accorded each of the 1.5 million citizens who received unsolicited bankcards last October was shown on the attachment to the bankcard sent out, to be seen by anyone who happened to have access to the unsolicited mailing whether he was properly entitled to see it or not. This happened in many cases of errors in addresses, changed addresses and fraudulent possession of the cards. I repeat that the terms and nature of credit arrangements are a matter of the utmost privacy which ought to be known to the borrower and the creditor only and certainly ought to be made available to third parties only with the borrower's express permission. 
There was a time when the best way to buy was with cash; a consumer's best bargaining power was the ability to pay in cash. However, with the expanding use of credit cards and the commission that sellers have to pay to the credit card organisations, the position now is that cash customers, through the price they pay, are contributing a component to help offset the commission or service fee, which ranges from 3 per cent to 7 per cent, that the seller has to pay to the credit card company or organisation concerned. To this extent then credit cards are inflationary as they are an addition to selling costs. In addition, the expansion in readily available credit following the mass distribution of credit cards was an inflationary influence. 
I am sure that honourable members opposite would agree with the principal objectives of the Trade Practices Act and the amending legislation now before the House- the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has indicated that they do- in that it seeks to give both businessmen and consumers a fair deal and to facilitate free competition in all areas of the marketplace. I believe it is true to say that the Trade Practices Act has been generally well received by the world of commerce. No longer can the large corporation dominate a market by its ability to restrict smaller businesses from competing. 
The Act has been in existence now for a little over 6 months and although some of the major provisions relating to restrictive trade practices came into operation only a little under 3 months ago, I think this is an appropriate time to review the operations of some of the provisions of the Act. Generally, the public is becoming increasingly aware of its rights and remedies under the Act. However, one area of the Trade Practices Commission's activities that has come in for criticisms is in the large scale granting of interim authorisations of existing contracts or arrangements in restraint of trade or exclusive dealing arrangements. The Act allowed the Commission to grant clearances for either class of conduct where the effect of the restrictions upon competition was insubstantial. The Commission could also grant authorisation where substantial public benefits not otherwise available arose from the particular contracts or arrangements in restraint of trade or exclusive dealing. 
The Act also allowed the Trade Practices Commission to grant interim authorisation if it considered that it was proper to do so for the purpose of enabling due consideration to be given to the application. I have had it put to me in my electorate that, in particular, the failure of the Commission to date to act against the brewery monopolies and oil company arrangements with service stations, is an indication of an un, willingness on the part of the Commission to act on behalf of consumers and in consumers' interests. In the case of breweries, I have had complaints not only from consumers but from hotel proprietors as well. I am aware that the Commission was literally swamped with applications in the last 3 weeks of the time period for applications. But it needs to be made abundantly clear that interim authorisations by the Commission are in no way to be interpreted by the public or the parties concerned as a rubber stamping of existing contracts in restraint of trade or exclusive dealing. 
I can appreciate the work load and pressures involved in trying to deal with the 2100 odd groups of applications received prior to 1 February and the trickle that has come in since, which probably would boil down to about 200 issues if common issues relating to the same industry were linked. The facts are that to the end of March 1975 only 61 clearance applications and 13 authorisation applications have been decided. Of these the Trade Practices Commission has rejected on merit 9 clearance applications and one authorisation application. 
Among the authorisation applications granted are 3 cases where the Commission has issued an authorisation following a certificate issued by the Attorney-General stating that there are special considerations relating to the particular acquisition that make it desirable in the interest of national economic policy that the authorisation be granted. I refer here to the B. F. GoodrichOlympic merger, to the Peek Frean-Arnott's take-over and to the Marrickville Potato CrispsAmatil merger. If the work load facing the Commission is such that additional staff and facilities are required to speed up the processing of applications, the additional staff and facilities should be made available as a matter of urgent public interest. 
My own view is that the public interest may have been better served if the interim authorisations had not been granted but rather each application had been dealt with and resolved as time permitted. Again, I appreciate that this course may have caused some difficulties to parties to existing arrangements but I believe the public benefit to be of greater importance. I would be interested also to know whether any cost benefit analysis was made to justify the continuation of agreements until they are examined by the Commission. Certainly, a discontinuation of" the existing arrangements across the board would have entailed a cost to the companies concerned in disbanding existing arrangements. But against that has to be ranged the considerable cost to the public in allowing the agreements to continue pending their examination by the Trade Practices Commission. To date the Trade Practices Commission has launched only 3 proceedings for injunction, namely against the Sharp Corporation in relation to resale price maintenance in respect of calculators, against the Hammersmith Storage Module Sales for misleading advertising in respect of cardboard storage modules represented as pyneboard modules, and against Vapor Nordic for misleading advertising in respect of fuel injection systems. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was referring to the 3 proceedings for injunctions instituted by the Trade Practices Commission in respect of the Sharp Corporation, Hammersmith Storage Module Sales and Vapour Nordic. To date no prosecutions under the Trade Practices Act have been launched by the Trade Practices Commission. I want to turn now to the consumer protection provisions of the Act. My observations are that the public is not sufficiently aware of the level of assistance available from the Australian Legal Aid Office in respect of complaints under this legislation and the principal Act. The public does not seem to be aware that the Australian Legal Aid Office will give legal advice and also give legal assistance by way of instituting court proceedings to people who are eligible for such assistance, being people of limited means or people for whom the Australian Government has a special responsibility such as pensioners, migrants or infants. I suggest to the AttorneyGeneral that there is a need to focus greater public attention on what the Australian Legal Aid Office can do to assist people in connection with this legislation. 
A particular practice that has been brought to my notice in my electorate by some of my constituents is that followed by some major discount houses in buying in slightly imperfect products, or seconds as they are known, from manufacturers and marketing these products as specials at reduced prices in a style that leads purchasers to believe that the products are first quality. When a complaint was made recently to a discount house the staff said words to the effect: 'Well, you knew that the product was slightly damaged when you bought it'. One product that comes to mind is New World clothes driers. Clearly this is a breach of the Act and I reiterate to the Attorney-General that more public attention needs to be focused on the assistance available to people from the Australian Legal Aid Office in matters such as this. 
The legislation now before the House will strengthen and broaden the existing Trade Practices Act. The public of Australia had great expectations of a new deal for consumers when the principal Act was passed. The legislation promised a dramatic change in consumer rights and a dismantling of agreements and conduct in restraint of trade. I hope that those expectations will not be delayed by tardy implementation of the provisions of the Act. In concluding my remarks I want to make a brief reference to the proceedings in the Industrial Court today instituted by the Attorney-General's Department against the Sharp Corporation in relation to advertisements of the Sharp Corporation for microwave ovens. The fine of $100,000 imposed on the Corporation by the court points out very clearly that the Trade Practices Act has teeth, that it can be very effective and that it heralds the beginning of a new deal for consumers in consumer advertising. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-In the  2Vi  years since December 1972 when I became a member of this Parliament I have heard the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  address himself to a number of Bills in this chamber. I have taken note of some of the phrases and cliches that he has used on many previous occasions. He has referred to 'pressure tactics', 'blatant', 'horrendous', 'steam-rollered', 'octopus of socialism', 'monster', 'defer, defer, delay'. Surely those words could not have been applicable to all the legislation to which he has addressed himself. I put it to honourable members that this is again just the hackneyed, stereotyped delivery which is the general attitude of members of the Australian Country Party to legislation brought before this chamber. 
The Inter-State Commission was first mooted in 1898-77 years ago. Surely that gave the Opposition some notice of the possibility of an interstate commission being created by this Government. In his policy speech last May the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that in 1974 an interstate commission would be established. Just how much notice do we have to give to the Australian Country Party on these matters? It is obvious that that Party supports the inequities and the inadequacies of the hotch potch, present unplanned system of transport in this country. What the honourable member for Gippsland is really putting forward is a case for the march back to colonialism of the last century. If the fears which he expressed are well founded, why does he not take the matter to the High Court after the legislation is passed? The clear majority of the members of the High Court were appointed by his own Government, his predecessors. Or is he afraid, and is the Country Party afraid, of the impartiality of the High Court in these matters? Because of the vastness of our land and the relatively enormous distances between our population centres and between the location of resources and markets, transport costs are a vital factor in our national economic structure. 
It is imperative to our development as a nation that we have not only an efficient transport system embracing the various modes of transport but that we have also a system that is coordinated, and that access on an equitable basis is available to all who require to use it. Since the era of coaches, river boats, bullock drays and the fledgling railway systems, when our Constitution was drafted and adopted by the 6 colonial States, we have seen the proliferation of differing means of transport, in many respects unco-ordinated, with discriminatory pricing and access in terms of trade, that have resulted in many unnecessary costs being built into our transport arrangements. 
If we are to develop as a nation in the world of trade then, above all, we must have a coordinated, efficient and accessible transport. The Founding Fathers foresaw the need when they drew up the Constitution and they provided for it by means of sections 102, 103 and 104 of the Constitution, in addition to section 101. The interstate commission they envisaged was modelled largely on the commission created in the United Kingdom by the Railway and Canal Traffic Act of 1888, which was designed to prevent unjust charges and ensure rights of through traffic amongst private railway systems. They were also influenced by the United States Interstate Commerce Commission of 1887, which has been modified to the extent nowadays that it is now charged with the responsibility of developing, co-ordinating and preserving a national transport system by water, highway and rail, as well as by other means, adequate to meet the needs of the commerce of the United States, of the postal service and of the national defence. 
The Bill before the House, the Inter-state Commission Bill 1975, seeks to re-establish the Inter-state Commission in accordance with the provision of the Constitution. As the Minister emphasised in his second reading speech, when presenting the Bill, it is the Australian Government 's intention that the Commission operate under its provisions solely in the field of transport. Section 10 1 of the Constitution states: 
There shall be an Inter-State Commission, with such powers of adjudication and administration as the Parliament deems necessary for the execution and maintenance, within the Commonwealth, of the provisions of this Constitution relating to trade and commerce, and of all laws made thereunder. 
Section 102 goes on to state: 
The Parliament may by any law with respect to trade or commerce forbid, as to railways, any preference or discrimination by any State, or by any authority constituted under a State, if such preference or discrimination is undue or unreasonable, or unjust to any State; due regard being had to the financial responsibilities incurred by any State in connexion with the construction and maintenance of its railways. But no preference or discrimination shall, within the meaning of this section, be taken to be undue and unreasonable,  or unjust to any State, unless so adjudged by the Inter-State Commission. 
Section 103 of the Constitution prescribes the method of appointment and tenure of office of the Commissioners. Section 104, the other specific section relating to the establishment of the Commission, states: 
Nothing in this Constitution shall render unlawful any rate for the carriage of goods upon a railway, the property of a State, if the rate is deemed by the Inter-State Commission to be necessary for the development of the territory of the State, and if the rate applies equally to goods within the State and to goods passing into the State from other States. 
The attitude of the Australian Labor Party towards the establishment of an interstate commission is firm and clear. The Launceston Federal Conference of our Party resolved, in June 1971, that an Australian Labor Government would 'establish the Inter-State Commission to co-ordinate all types of interstate transport in Australia including rail, road, air, water and pipelines and to regulate conditions of carriage'. In December 1972 a majority of Australians supported our campaign policy, and in that campaign the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in his policy speech: 
The Inter-State Commission was intended to end the centralisation fostered by all State governments through their railway systems. It should now provide not only for the coordination of our mainland railway systems and our major ports in the period before the Commonwealth, like other federal governments, inevitably takes responsibility for railways and ports; it is the ideal instrument for co-ordinating our major roads and airways and pipelines. A Federal Labor Government will promptly restore the machinery the Constitution intended and vest it with the Commonwealth's full constitutional powers to plan and provide modern means of communication between the States. 
In his policy speech in April 1974 the Prime Minister further stated: 'The Government will reestablish the Commission this year'. This Bill is the fulfilment of those policy promises, albeit a little later than had been hoped initially. It is appropriate to recall that the Founding Fathers envisaged the future progress of the 6 States of Australia as along the course to a strong, independent, national outlook and possibly to the creation of more States within the federation as the population grew. I suppose it is understandable that in the years since Federation constituent States should tend towards State parochialism, but that in no way excuses the paranoia of the present non-Labor Premiers whose policies and endeavours fly in the face of the development of a strong, independent, national outlook. The continual tirade of abuse against this Federal Government that emanates particularly from Premier Court and Premier BjelkePetersen can only retard the progress of Australia. Their attitudes herald a march backwards to the isolationist, separatist policies of the 6 colonial States of the nineteenth century, whose governments realised the disadvantages of not having a co-ordinated national transport system for our vast island continent. The gallant, lone Liberal Prime Minister who strove to place the national and overall interests of Australia before the parochial State interests was hounded from office by his own party colleagues and their machinemen at State level, and the faceless men of private enterprise who support them. Those men of the State governments at the end of last century hoped that by enshrining sections 101 to 104 of the Federal Constitution they would ensure the creation of a continuing Inter-State Commission. The fact that the original Inter-State Commission was allowed to wither and die until the 1912 Act was finally abolished by the Menzies Government in 1950, resulted in unnecessary and incalculable costs being inflicted on our transport systems since 1920. However, in 1959-only 9 years after the abolition of the 1912 Act and during the administration of a later Menzies Government- the Constitutional Review Committee recommended the reestablishment of the Commission. The Committee recommended also that the Commonwealth Parliament should have an express power to make laws on restrictive trade practices found by the Commission to be contrary to public interest. More recently, in fact last year, the Brisbane Chamber of Commerce, backed by the Department of Economics at the Queensland University, in a submission to the Queensland Government advocated re-establishment of the Inter-State Commission to regulate transport, both interstate and intrastate, so as to overcome the anomalies and inefficiencies which existed in abundance as a result of State regulation of the transport sector. Subsequently, the Australian Chamber of Commerce, at its conference in May 1974, adopted unanimously the following resolution, following the discussion paper on the adverse effects of State regulation in transport industries: 
Conference asks council of management to consider the desirability of setting up an Inter-State Commission, as provided for under section 101 of the Australian Constitution but only for the purpose of properly co-ordinating and regulating with the maximum economic efficiency the distributive service industries so far as they relate to land, sea and air transport. 
The editorial of the 'Australian Financial Review ' of 8 April 1975 refers to the need for an authority clothed with unqualified constitutional powers to correct the many anomalies of the present transport scene and makes particular reference to the chaotic development of our ports that has occurred. The Brisbane Chamber of Commerce was able to show in its submission that, as a result of intrastate taxes on road transport in Queensland and because there was no interstate road transport tax, freight rates from Adelaide to Mount Isa were cheaper than from Toowoomba to Mount Isa despite the fact that Toowoomba is 7 1 5 miles closer to Mount Isa than to Adelaide. What clearer case can there be than that for the co-ordination of an equitable, efficient system of transport facilities and rates on a basis of national interest and equity? 
Another effect of the lack of a national, coordinated system of transport facilities can be seen in the Hunter region and the port of Newcastle. Because of the lack of adequate rail facilities to transport export coal from pit head to port, heavy congestion has been caused on major roads to the port by coal trucks running a shuttle service. In the communities through which coal trucks travel sharp division has been created for and against the use of coal trucks as opposed to the use of rail transport. Financial burdens have been placed on local councils whose roads are damaged by heavy coal carrying vehicles. I do not wish at this stage to enter that argument but rather to point out that the present problems could have been avoided had an authority been in existence in the past to investigate and report on the various modes of transport to the port of Newcastle. The port is the capital of the Hunter region or rather sub-State, and because of the facilities it provides to commerce its transport facilities ought to have been planned and developed based on the principles of regional efficiency, proper utilisation of the public investment in port facilities and equitable regional access to overseas markets. For instance, had an interstate commission existed during the period when the Opposition was in government, when ' Japanese importers were playing the Queensland coal industry off against the New South Wales coal industry, it could well have conducted an investigation into coal freight rates by either road or rail to the port as compared with coal freight rates to export ports in Queensland to see whether the New South Wales coal industry was in any way disadvantaged. 
A few years ago the Yennora wool handling facility near Sydney was developed and initially resulted in a heavy reduction of utilisation of Newcastle shipping facilities for wool because of unco-ordinated State government decisions. It could well be that an interstate commission investigation would show that it would make better economic sense to make greater utilisation of the Newcastle port than to over-centralise commerce through the congested port of Sydney, and at the same time it could bring out into the open any preference being shown to certain clients of freight companies. 
An investigation into comparative rail and road freight rates in the Hunter region may well show that it is against the public interest to be developing road transport when rail facilities could be better utilised, or vice versa, as the case may be. The point is that planning and coordination of transport are part and parcel of regional development and regional planning, and hence have an important influence on efficient public and private investment. If we move north up the coast, an interstate commission investigation of freight rates, both sea and road, could show that timber producers are disadvantaged by sea-road freights to and from other ports. The Minister has indicated that instances have been brought to his notice of differing charges being made to users for apparently the same service and of differing services being provided. I refer to matters such as preferential reservation of cargo space on ships, provision of the same service at different rates, and variations in the availability of equipment. 
Under the terms of this Bill 3 means are provided to the Commission by which an investigation may be initiated so that the services and powers of the Commission are readily available. Firstly, it may launch an investigation on its own initiative or in response to a complaint. Secondly, arising from a direct request from a State it may in its judgment alone commence an investigation. Thirdly, the Minister may direct an investigtion to be conducted. Clause 18 of the Bill requires that detailed written notice of proposed investigations by the Commission be given to persons directly and specifically affected and that notice be published in the 'Gazette' and appropriate newspapers. This Bill is long overdue. It will provide the means by which the transport system of an interstate and overseas nature will be placed on a basis of national efficiency, free of disadvantage to users of the system. I commend the Bill to the House. 
It is rather ironic to listen to the comments of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  in relation to the financial needs of local government when one considers that the main person concerned in the Bill before the House was the  chairman  of the royal commission appointed by the New South Wales Government in 1966 to inquire into the financial problems of local government in New South Wales, and the State leader of the Party of which the honourable member for Hume is a member is the Minister responsible in that Government for local government needs. The 
New South Wales Government has done very little to adopt the recommendations of the royal commission in 1966. The honourable member's reference to the deliberations of the Grants Commission as being uncertain, and to the uncertainty of local government revenue, is something I cannot understand. I will have to be gracious and attribute that to the honourable member's lack of knowledge of local government financing in New South Wales because the deliberations of the Grants Commission and the timing of its report are ideal for councils in New South Wales in that the reports of the Grants Commission are brought down in about July or August each year. Last year the announcements were made in September. The local government councils in New South Wales budget on a calendar year so they prepare their budget estimates in September, October and November. . The timing of the Grants Commission's report therefore, is ideal insofar as the councils in New South Wales are concerned. I do not know what is the position in the other States, but the councils in New South Wales do have that advantage. 
For your information - 
Any council preparing its budget for the ensuing calendar year knows from the report by about August or September what it is going to get in the following calendar year. I feel that 3 months notice even before the draft estimates are prepared by a council of its budget is ample time. 
The purpose of the Grants Commission Bill 1975, as has been remarked upon by other speakers, is to amend the Grants Commission Act 1973 in 3 respects. The Act is to be amended, firstly, to enable the appointment of an additional full time member of the Commission. The need for this has arisen from the increased work load upon the Commission, particularly in relation to local government hearings, and the necessity to carry out inspections in conjunction with the hearings. It is to be amended, secondly, to enable a  chairman  who immediately before his appointment was a judge of a Federal or State court to have the same designation, rank, status and precedence as a judge of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court. Thirdly, it is to be amended to incorporate the machinery changes consequent on the existence of the Remuneration Tribunals Act of 1973-74. The Australian Government and the Australian Labor Party are committed to the uplifting of the status of local government in this nation, and the expanded role of the Grants Commission constitutes a major part of our policy of recognising and alleviating the financial difficulties facing local government. 
It needs to be emphasised that the Grants Commission's operations are only part of the broad program of financial assistance being made available by the Australian Government to local government. The importance that we attach to the role of local government in our society is a real answer to the charges of centralism levied against us by our opponents. Under a variety of programs we have provided local government with the funds to undertake a range of activities previously inadequately carried out or totally neglected. We deliberately have made, and shall make, local government a vehicle for our legislation dealing with aged persons homes and hostels, sheltered employment, handicapped children, meals on wheels, home care and nursing, nursing homes, homeless men and women. In addition, substantial financial assistance is being given under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. These are all activities which cannot be regulated closely from the national and State capitals and are best planned and implemented by local government working with local community groups. They justify assistance from the nation's finances but not an increase in council rates. 
I was especially pleased last October when the announcement was made that  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell, who had been a judge of the Land and Valuation Court of New South Wales since 1 962, had accepted appointment as the  Chairman  of the Grants Commission for the ensuing 5 years.  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell is a man with a deep understanding of, and a long experience in, the field of local government. He was  Chairman  of the Royal Commission into the New South Wales Land Valuation Rating System in 1965. 1 referred earlier to the report of that Commission in 1966 which has become a reference work in local government circles in New South Wales. It is regrettable that successive New South Wales governments have chosen not to implement most of the recommendations made by the Commission in 1 965. 1 would like to pay tribute to  Mr Whalan,  a former Town  Clerk  of the Kuringai Municipal Council in New South Wales, who conducted last year's hearings in New South Wales, and also to  Mr Sheehan,  a Novocastrian and a senior lecturer in economics at Newcastle 
University prior to his appointment as a full-time member of the Commission in March 1974. 
Considering that appointments to the expanded Grants Commission were not finalised until 1973 and that the last of the full-time members did not take up duty until March 1974, it was indeed an achievement for the Commission to bring forward its recommendations on local government in time for the current Budget and for the actual payments to be made to councils in December of last year. The task that the Commission faced was a formidable one. The quality and reliability of data available from applicant councils varied and, in instances, simply was not available. Because of the lack of a precise system of measuring and evaluating the fiscal needs of local councils at the time- one has to bear in mind that there are 900 councils ranging in area from less than 1000 square miles to 100 000 square miles- the recommendations to a degree reflect the broad judgment of the members of the Commission, bearing in mind that they had a wide experience and understanding of local government. 
Because of the complexity of establishing equalisation grants for local governing bodies throughout Australia and because it is still early days for the Commission's activities in respect of local government, the methods of assessing grants naturally will need to evolve over a number of years. In this respect, the Commission is providing full opportunity for local government representatives and those of State and Australian Government departments to put their views to the Commission. The task of equalisation which the Commission is required to perform under its legislation requires it to recommend grants that will enable councils to function at a standard not appreciably below the standards of other councils. In other words, this scheme is designed to enable councils to provide, by reasonable effort, community services of a standard comparable with those enjoyed by communities elsewhere. 
The grants, therefore, are intended as a supplement to current revenue or as a 'topping up' grant, as distinct from grants made available for specific purposes, such as under the area improvement program of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I think it needs to be emphasised that no strings are attached to the recommendations of the Grants Commission, but it is not intended that the grants should be used to decrease rates or to postpone reasonable rate increases. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has made this quite clear, particularly in his speech to the Australian Council of 
Local Government Associations at Alice Springs in November of last year, on which occasion he said: 
I emphasise that the Australian Government accepted the Grants Commission recommendations that the grants are made without conditions on the manner in which they are spent by the receiving authority. I also emphasise that the new funds should in no way be a substitute for revenue normally raised by councils by long established means such as rates and charges for services nor replace assistance normally provided by State governments. 
The Commission, by taking into account the taxable capacity of an applicant council, would discover instances where councils were avoiding the levying of a reasonable rate. It is essential to this scheme that local government bodies use grants provided in a responsible manner and in accordance with the purposes of the scheme as outlined by the Grants Commission Act of 1 973. 
I was disappointed to notice in September of last year that some outgoing councils in New South Wales, as soon as they learned of the amounts that they were to receive from the Australian Government and well in advance of the enabling legislation, proceeded to apportion the expected funds to specific projects which could have been more wisely financed out of long term loan funds. The reason for this procedure was that the New South Wales local government elections were to be held a few weeks later, on 2 1 September 1974. In some cases the decisions were taken at the last meeting of the outgoing council and, whilst decisions can be changed by incoming councils, we all know how difficult it is to reverse financial commitments once made. I believe that councils that can be seen to be financing long term assets out of an equalisation grant or a supplement to current revenue when such long term assets ought to be financed out of long term loan funds, could find it quite difficult on a later occasion to convince the Grants Commission that the council was in need of a supplement to current revenue. This use of loan funds by councils in their borrowing position was highlighted by the  Chairman  of the Commission,  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell, during hearings at Cessnock, when considering applications from the Hunter region just a few weeks ago. 
The grants that were recommended in the Commission's report have been criticised by some people on the basis that some areas received a grant and some areas received less than other areas. The criticism that has been directed, particularly in respect of rural bodies, is that they may have received less than the metropolitan bodies. But it needs to be pointed out that an examination of the recommendations concerning grants from the Commission last year will show that, in per capita terms, the grants for rural councils were far larger than for urban or metropolitan councils. For example, in New South Wales, for metropolitan councils in Category 1 the average grants per capita were $2.36; for the larger provincial towns and cities in Category 3.1 the average grants per capita were $6.82; and for sparsely populated shires in Category 6 the average grants per capita were $9.61. So consideration of that information shows that there is no case for putting forward the argument that rural areas and rural councils were distinguished against by the Commission. 
The other matter raised in the earlier part of the debate related to the suggestion that the expanded duties being carried out by the Grants Commission in respect of local government are duties that could well be carried out by State local government grants commissions which exist in some States, particularly New South Wales. In answer to that proposition I indicate that if councils are to be developed and given access to revenue on a national basis, under a proper equalisation scheme, there is only one way that can be done, and that is by looking at the local government scene- its needs, deficiencies and disabilities- on a national basis. Since 1933 the Grants Commission has a record of performance as far as States' needs are concerned, and every government since that period, irrespective of political colour, has accepted the recommendations of the Grants Commission in respect of the States. At the same time, in answer to the argument that the States should perform these duties or that it is a deprivation of States' rights for the Grants Commission to perform these duties, it needs to be remembered also that State Ministers have the right to approach the Grants Commission- their approaches are welcomed by the Commission- in respect of any submission or application that has been made by a local government unit in their State. The Grants Commission presently is conducting its second round of regional hearings with regard to local government applications for untied financial assistance. I understand that the hearings are almost completed. We will look forward to the Commission's report being made available in about mid-July of this year. I commend the Bill to the House. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Under what programs have funds been approved for local Government by the Australian Government in 1974-75. 
What is the total approval in respect of each program in each State in 1974-75. 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr Speaker.  Has your attention been drawn to the difficult and cramped office accommodation in which members of the Parliamentary Press Gallery have to work? Can you inform the House of the cost of providing the facilities which are made available to members of the Press Gallery, who pays for these facilities and what can be done to improve them? 
-The references by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to clause 14 of the Bill indicate only one thing: He does not understand the Bill, he does not understand the clause and he does not want to understand the Bill. It is part of the usual tactic of the Opposition to create a smokescreen of confusion for the Leader of the Opposition to do as his predecessor did- to delay, to defer and to frustrate the activities and initiatives of this Government. It is true that he is the latest hope of those opposite. I do not know how long he will wear the belt, but there is another long parliamentary recess coming up and who knows, there could be another change during that recess. 
The Leader of the Opposition referred with great feeling to taxpayers and to taxpayers' funds. I have not heard him express himself in those terms before, showing any concern for the average Australian. Rather there has been an attitude from those opposite and from the Leader of the Opposition of: 'Let's get what we can for our boys, the champions of free enterprise'. I am amazed that the so-called champions of free enterprise opposite, who are supposed to believe in free competition are so alarmed and show so much despair when it is suggested that there will be one more insurance company. Even the Western Australian State Government Insurance Office under a socialist Premier is guaranteed, it is backed by all the resources of the State of Western Australia, not by $lm but by aU the resources of the State of Western Australia. It claims in the 'West Australian' last week that it offers the greatest security to pOliCy holders and offers the most comprehensive policies. It claims to offer the fastest service and the most competitive service. That is a State Government insurance office. I do not know how the Opposition can reconcile its views to an Australian Government insurance office with those of the Western Australian State Government insurance office and the Queensland State Government insurance office. Over the past few weeks we have seen in Australia the most vicious, inaccurate and immoral campaign that has ever been waged against an Australian Government. In the living memory of more than half the population of this nation never has there been such a campaign designed to mislead, designed to create hatred and division in our community and designed and orchestrated by men in an industry which claims that it is the industry to which the public should entrust its funds and in which the public should place its trust and have confidence. No one can dispute that the present campaign being waged against this Bill is a political campaign, the cost of which is being borne by policy holders throughout Australia- -policy holders who have not been consulted, whose permission has not been obtained for the use of their funds for a political campaign against this Government. The National Country Party, whose members are interjecting, would naturally oppose the Bill, because it has its finger in the honey. Irrefutable evidence that it is a political campaign being financed from POliCy holders' funds is contained in a letter sent to members of the National Country Party of Australia on an AMP letterhead by the Life Offices' Association. The letter concludes with these words: 
That with the assistance of the National Country Party members, the industry would be able to arouse a ground swell of public opinion -  (Quorum formed). I appreciate the action of the National Country Party in drawing attention to the fact that the truth hurts them when it is pointed out to the people of Australia. The letter continues:  which would either force the Government to drop its proposal for an Australian Government Insurance Office and severely amend its proposed National Compensation plan or force it from office. 
The Australian Mutual Provident Society was once 1 a proud name linked with the early development of the Australian insurance industry. The present directors of the AMP Society have despoiled that once proud name. Never again will it regain the prestige it once held. Never again will the Society be able to claim title to being Australian. Never again will its name be a name in which policy holders and Australians will be able to place trust. 
The Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975 provides for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office with a modest capital of $800,000 and the entitlement to an advance of $1 million from the Treasury at the long term bond rate. It will be one more insurance office in Australia and will operate in fair competition and on just terms with the other 300 insurance companies already in business in Australia. 
The costs of the present political campaign against this Bill and the Australian Labor Government for which policy holders will pay, would be sufficient to establish 2 Australian Government insurance corporations of the magnitude provided for in this legislation. Not only has the campaign been extravagant, hysterical, dishonest and deceptive, it has been amateurish and contradictory. I refer to an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' in which  Mr Nick  Renton, the Executive Director of the Life Offices' Association of Australia, referring to the AGIC, stated:  . . . will require expert staff who can only be found from the existing industry, where there is a shortage of experienced and qualified people. 
The Australian Insurance Staffs Federation was surprised at  Mr Renton  's statement that 'there is a shortage of experienced and qualified people'. The Federation pointed out the distressing fact that the general insurance companies have retrenched over 430 staff in the last 6 months, most being experienced staff with long service. The Federation is also aware that more staff are to be retrenched. So much for  Mr Renton  's statement on the scarcity of skilled staff. This is one of the most callous acts that the Life Offices Association has undertaken so far. It is trying to create in those who are in the industry the greatest fear of all- that of unemployment- without regard to the effect it has on the bread winners of the family or the dependants of the families employed in the industry. Was  Mr Renton  really saying that those 430 dismissed people and those to be dismissed shortly are incompetent and unskilled? I leave them to be the judge of his words. 
The Australian Mutual Provident Society's pre-printed message cards to Federal members urging a 'modifying of this Government's social welfare programs' are in reality a campaign urging a reduction in unemployment and sickness benefits, age, invalid and widow pensions, a postponement of the abolition of the means test for age pensions and an attack on all less privileged people who receive any kind of social welfare assistance from this Government. I have no doubt that organisations throughout Australia representing these people will take note of this attempt by the AMP Society, a company which only 2 days ago announced its highest income ever. 
Who are the people appearing in the television ads which are being paid for out of policy holders' funds? The viewing public is not told of their background or whether they have a vested interest in opposing this legislation. I want to mention one well known face that has been appearing regularly in the television propaganda advertisements, one who has not had the courage to identify himself or state his vested interests. I refer to a former senior Minister in successive Liberal-Country Party governments who at one time was mooted as a budding Prime Minister of this country, namely  Sir Alan  Fairhall. Pages 1 94 and 784 of the current edition of 'Business Who's Who in Australia' shows  Sir Alan  Fairhall as a director of the life assurance company Commonwealth General Assurance Corporation Ltd whose parent company is the Zurich Insurance Company.  Sir Alan  Fairhall is also listed as a director of CGA Fire and Accident Insurance Co. Ltd, Ampol Exploration Ltd, Newbold General Refractories Ltd, the Newcastle Gas Co. Ltd, Thiess Holdings Limited and Thiess Toyota Pty Ltd. Surely ordinary fairness and decency demands that such a personage should disclose his personal interest in the campaign in which he is participating against this Government and against the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office that will, after all, belong to and serve the Australian people. Or are we to believe that  Sir Alan  Fairhall does not hold any shares- not even directors shares- or receive any directors fees from Commonwealth General Assurance Corporation Ltd or CGA Fire and Accident Insurance Co. Ltd? 
Let us look a little further at some of the literature being distributed by the insurance industry at the expense of poliCy holders. I received my copy of a booklet by post, again at policy holders' expense. I refer to the glossy red and white 13 page publication entitled: 'The AGIOCompetition, regulation and nationalisation'. On the outside cover in red print, bright and bold, the publication states: 'Prepared for the general insurance industry by the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters of Australia 210 George Street, Sydney'. But on the inside back cover of this expensive booklet the printer is shown as Cambridge Press Pty Ltd, 289 King Street, Newcastle. 
-Wait for it. Information I have received reveals that the principal of Cambridge Press Pty Ltd is none other than the son of  Sir Alan  Fairhall. Surely the policy holders of the Commonwealth General Assurance Corporation Ltd are entitled to know that a director's son is publishing material for a political propaganda campaign for which they are paying and in which a director of their company is participating. Surely they are entitled to know how their money is being spent and with whom it is being spent. Still, I suppose, like the ad for Prudential says: 'The man you can trust'- or rather, I would say: 'Can you trust?' 
I have also seen some of the pro-forma letters being distributed by the AMP Society. I have received a few of the prepared letters that are being sent to members of this House. I have answered them aU in detail setting out the facts of this Bill, and in a few instances I have rung the writers as well. Last Monday I spoke to one writer from a life assurance company in Newcastle. After a lengthy conversation in which we discussed political views- and I respect his- he told me that he now had a much clearer understanding of the proposed AGIC and that if its motor vehicle premiums were lower than those of the company with which he had his policies he would be transferring his policy to the AGIC when it was established. More importantly, he told me that staff in his office were concerned at the nature of the propaganda campaign being waged by the insurance industry, that they had held a meeting in their office that morning and that they had resolved that they would advise their head office that their company should withdraw from the campaign. 
I have sympathy for the staff of insurance companies because they also are being misled by the directors. It is clear that they have been directed to campaign against this Government, which is a serious denial of civil rights. I admired this man's principle and I told him so. But no doubt he and his colleagues also had the wisdom to see that the welter of untruths being circulated against the AGIC could only seriously damage the credibility of insurance companies, particularly the credibility of insurance representatives in the industrial region of Newcastle, when the facts of this Government's proposals became known to the public. 
I would like to mention a genuine letter that I have received from a constituent. I propose to read it to the House because I am certain that it represents the majority view of the public who have seen the television advertisements. I did not know this man previously but I have since contacted him. He is happy for me to read his letter into Hansard.  His  letter states: 
Australian Government Insurance Office Dear  Sir, 
With all the vocal opposition to the advent of the above and a lot worse, as we all know in these cases, the blatant lies and innuendos used in these campaigns, we as a group feel that we must make our voices heard. 
Discussion with quite a few people in this area indicates a pretty widespread support for the principle and fact of government insurance, i.e., honest mutual non profit, and we would like you to know of this. 
We trust that amid all the pointed and pointless discussion raised about this issue, that our action will in some way strengthen your resolution in your actions for a better community. 
Yours sincerely, R. Oxenford 
The address of my constituent is 52 Lewers Street, Belmont, New South Wales. The Aus.tralian Government has been accused of not consulting the industry on the provisions of this legislation. The charges are completely untrue. It has long been Australian Labor Party pOliCy to establish an Australian Government insurance office. On 4 April 1975 the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  announced the establishment of 2 consultative committees, one for the life assurance industry and one for the general insurance industry. At the time the Treasurer said: 
The committees have been established to enable the Government to seek advice on matters relevant to current or prospective legislation on Government policy proposals which have significant implications for the insurance industry. 
Matters for consultation include implications for industry of the proposed national compensation scheme, AGIO, natural disaster insurance. 
His Press release listed the membership of each of the committees. I seek leave to have that list incorporated in Hansard. 
-After the initial meeting of the committees the Treasurer said that 'the meeting had been cordial and very useful'. Last Sunday the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  convened a special meeting in Canberra of the committees which the life offices declined to attend. These are the people who want more time to talk. When they were summoned to Canberra last Sunday for a meeting of the consultative committee, they declined to attend. The general insurance industry and staff were represented. The meeting was a productive one at which all parties gained a better understanding of the issues involved. Following the meeting the Minister announced that, principally as a result of representations from the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation, the Aus.tralian Government Insurance Corporation Bill would be amended to make the Australian Insurance Corporation subject specifically to the Life Insurance Act 1945-1973 and the Insurance Act 1973. At the meeting he undertook to keep other matters under review as and when they were brought to his attention by interested parties. 
It needs to be known that the approach of the general insurance companies so far to some extent has been constructive, in contrast to the role of the life offices which has been characterised by hysteria, misrepresentation and intimidation. The hysterical response from certain well known sections of the life assurance industry is designed to protect their entrenched monopolistic position. They do not want even the most minimal competition which could come from an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. I have found no evidence that the State governments consulted the industry before establishing State government insurance offices. However, the Premier of each State was sent a copy of the interdepartmental committee report on the Autralian Government Insurance Corporation on 6 May 1975. The suggestion from the New South Wales Premier that the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office should be called the Australian Government Insurance Corporation has been adopted. Each member of the 2 consultative committees was forwarded a copy of the IDC report on 6 May 1975. 
In conclusion I point out that what spokesmen for the industry fail to realise is that there is a market for the type of insurance service which government insurance offices provide and there is a separate market for the more elaborate personalised service which some private insurance companies provide. I wish honourable members opposite would realise this. They are supposed to be the champions of free enterprise. The positive approach, and the approach one would expect the industry to be following, is to concentrate on that share of the market where the private sector has competitive service and advantage and not to embark on a political campaign which is likely to alienate at least half its policyholders. I support the Bill and oppose the amendment. 
It is a pity that the spokesmen for the insurance industry and the Opposition are taking the same course with this legislation as the Australian Medical Association took with the universal health insurance program. Without understanding the provisions of the Government's scheme, without taking the trouble to consult in a constructive fashion with the Government, they proceed to create a screen of confusion and a feeling of bitterness between the industry concerned and the Government. The Opposition should be putting forward the principles of free enterprise and championing its cause and it is very hard to understand its reaction when there is the slightest suggestion of one more competitor. Quite ironically the leader in the campaign against the Government's proposals- the Australian Mutual Provident Society Ltd- is really based on socialistic principles. It is fact of life to say, after reading the reports of the statements by the secretary of the National Policyholders Association,  Mr Cassidy,  that obviously that Society is governed by managerial capitalists rather than by people who have a mutual association with the company. 
It is said that the Government has not given the industry an opportunity to participate in discussion. No more need be said after what happened last Sunday week when the life officers refused to attend a meeting. To constantly refer to clause 14- in particular to sub-clause (5)- as the Opposition does as being a blanket clause for the Australian Government Insurance Corporation to write any premium rate or to write any conditions of insurance it wishes is quite untrue. At least the regulations must go before each of the Houses of the Parliament and they must receive the approval of both this House and the other place. I think that it is quite clear in clause 14(5) that reference to conditions in relation to contracts of insurance includes reference with respect to the amount of the premium to be charged or the percentage of the amount of the loss to which the insurance is to extend. 
It is all very well for the Opposition and for the industry to talk about national interest insurance and national disaster insurance. It is true that there have been consultations and discussions about national disaster insurance. After the discussions that have taken place, the position really amounts to this: The industry wants the Government to sort out the situation. It knows what the problems are but it cannot, because of the proliferation of companies, take the kind of action that is needed. It wants the Government to take action and the Government to participate if there is to be a loss. Some speakers for the Opposition asked why, seeing the taxpayers are paying for insurance, they should not continue to pay for the loss. I think the point that is being missed is that those who participate in the benefit ought to be sharing in the cost of providing the cover that is needed or of providing the benefit that is to be derived in the unfortunate occurrence of a natural disaster. I could move on from there to apply the same remarks to the area of national interest. 
The interdepartmental committee report examined the other alternatives available in the insurance field. Investigation has been carried out into livestock and crop insurance cover. As I said, the insurance industry has submitted to the Government its proposals on property damage resulting from natural disaster. I repeat that the industry wants the Government to put its house in order, but when the Government does act to involve itself in any way we have this outcry about nationalisation and socialism which serves only to create a smokescreen to conceal the real problem. 
There is a public demand for the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. Obviously, when the AGIC is established it will fulfil that demand. The information available to the Government does provide the expertise and the experience to act in the field of insurance. Again the industry is assuming, without consulting and without investigating, that the board of the AGIC would not be inviting the industry to participate in national disaster insurance. It is quite conceivable that the AGIC, once established in the light of experience and in the light of the expertise gained in the field of national interest insurance, would be inviting the private sector to become involved. 
I conclude on this note: It is a pity that the industry is not looking at the areas of activity in which it is competitive and in which it will have the competitive advantage over any kind of government insurance office. It ought to be concentrating on that area of activity and pointing out where it has an advantage, and should be looking to the constructive development of the industry and to a crystalisation of a number of companies involved in the industry, and to areas in which inefficiency can be removed. In the present situation, life assurance in particular is sold not with any relation to the achievement of maximum efficiency within the industry, not with the idea of achieving the maximum benefit for the policy holder but rather, because of the structure of the industry's commissions, the business is written on the basis of what will provide the greatest amount of commission for the salesman selling the policy. 
I never cease to marvel at the capacity of members of the National Country Party of Australia to find socialism and socialists in all kinds of legislation. If they cannot find it there they imagine it is there. They suggest that this Bill is an instrument of socialism or in some way could be interpreted as some kind of socialistic device. After all, the most socialistic governments this nation has ever had were Liberal-Country Party governments. More socialistic enterprises were established in their 23 years of administration than under any other governments in this nation's history. According to honourable members opposite we should disband every rural marketing board, every primary producer board and every marketing authority that is collecting the crop because they are all terribly socialistic. I turn now to the clauses of the Bill. The Opposition members are supposed to be the champions of private enterprise. They ought to be trying to bring to the attention of the Australian people and the Australian Government the advantages that private enterprise practices can achieve and the economies of scale that are derived from the size of purchasing power, efficiency in purchasing and expertise associated with the whole industry of purchasing which large companies utilise. These are the kinds of savings of which this Government wants to take advantage for the benefit of the Australian taxpayer. 
It has been put to us time and again that size means efficiency. This is the case with large manufacturing companies, large mining companies, large retailers and large finance companies. After all, the essence of retailing for a large retailer is expertise in purchasing. Knowing when to buy, how much to buy and where to buy means the difference between making a profit and not making a profit. Yet, the very expertise and savings that could be achieved by incorporating some of these practices into Australian Government purchasing, by co-ordinating all the requirements of the constituent departments and co-ordinating the requirements of the various authorities, by providing career type employment for members of the Australian Public Service in purchasing, training and interchange of personel- all these benefits and all that efficiency- will be denied by the Opposition. This is the case clearly because honourable members opposite have not looked at the Bill. They have not read it properly. They want to defer the Bill. (Quorum formed)  Mr Speaker,  it is deplorable that honourable members opposite who claimed only a few minutes ago to have insufficient time to debate this Bill and who objected because a time limit was set on the Committee stage and the third reading stage of the Bill have left the House now on 2 occasions creating the necessity to call a quorum. As I was saying, the major benefit of size in any corporation, commercial activity or buying operation is the bargaining power that attaches to the purchaser. The Purchasing Commission will give the Australian people, through the Australian Government, just that power. It will enable the Purchasing Commission to bargain, to insist on better quality and to get the best deal that is possible. Through that, it will be possible for the Commission to ensure that we get the proper coordination of the types of equipment, facilities, services and goods that are required by the various departments and authorities. Ultimately it will bring major savings to the purchasing side of departmental expenditure. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I support the Purchasing Commission Bill 1975 now before the House which is to authorise the establishment of a Purchasing Commission. Its major activities will be to advise the Minister on the policies, procedures and practices which should be followed in regard to procurement and disposals and to operate a central procurement and disposals organisation to meet the needs of a wide range of departments and authorities. The Bill embraces almost all the recommendations of the Committee appointed by this Government to inquire into and make recommendations upon the purchasing practices of and by Australian Government departments and authorities. It is appropriate to mention that the Committee was chaired by  Sir Walter  Scott, a man highly respected in commerce and renowned for this expertise in the functioning of industry and local government authorities. He has worked with successive Federal governments and has been and is respected by all. 
It is desirable from the taxpayers' point of view to bring together the existing multitude of purchasing agencies at present operating. We have the Australian Government Stores and Tender Board, the Contract Board of the Department of Manufacturing Industry and numerous Government authorities purchasing and operating in the purchasing field in their own right. There is a need to co-ordinate purchasing activities. There is a need for the Australian Government to avail itself of economies to be derived from bulk purchasing and in consolidating the many individual purchases into a single purchasing power. There is a need to remove competition between departments in purchasing procedures. All of these will mean, in the ultimate, large savings in the use of taxpayers' funds by any Australian government. 
It could be put forward that in the operations of the Commission under the provisions of this legislation user departments' interests could be disadvantaged by the powers prescribed under the Bill. However, clauses 12 and 13 protect the interests of user departments, realising that the Commission will have the final say in the source from which goods are purchased. User departments under these clauses will still have to pay for goods purchased and naturally will still have the ability to influence the Commission in its final decisions on what to purchase and where to purchase. So the Minister of the department concerned will still have the ability and power to involve himself in the authorisation to purchase. 
The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  referred to an extract from the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy. Unfortunately in referring to paragraph 8.27 of the report he referred only to those arguments that were put to the Committee against the establishment of a central purchasing agency. I would like to now put to the House the next paragraph of the Committee's report which clearly outlines the argument put to the Committee in favour of the central purchasing agency. Paragraph 8.28 which is set out on page 68 of the report states:   . . First, it would promote efficiencies, streamline operations and economise in staff and resources. Secondly, it would maximise the potential to exert influence including the negotiation of better prices through purchasing. Thirdly, it would enable great improvements to be made in the mechanics of purchasing, through a concentration of both the best  purchasing and  the best advisory expertise available. Fourthly, it would reduce the risk of departments competing with each other for scarce resources. Fifthly, it would help suppliers and enable them to reduce their costs as they would need to deal with only one agency. Sixthly, it would provide a much better career structure within the purchasing function and give better opportunities for the development of expertise amongst staff. Seventhly, the centralising of the function would permit greater decentralisation of purchasing activities by virtue of its regional offices. 
They were the arguments put to the Committee in support of the establishment of a centralised purchasing agency. The previous speaker put forward the arguments against the establishment of this body. The upshot was that the Committee, in considering the views, made the point that:   . . the crux of the debate revolves around two vital factors. The first is that a centralised agency would largely replace the direct dealings between the supplier and the user. The second is that the user departments cannot themselves secure the same degree of efficiency in purchasing, provide the same degree of uniformity, provide the machinery whereby the whole purchasing function can be uplifted, economies achieved and efficiency raised, nor can they provide a real system of checks and balances, a factor which the Committee considers is essential. 
I think that the section which deals with arguments for and against a central purchasing agency is the most important part of the Committee's report. Paragraph 8.30 of the Committee 's report states: 
This Committee has been forced to choose between the two alternatives and believes- 
That is, the Committee believes -  that the Government should set up a centralised agency to  undertake  major responsibilities in connection with the whole purchasing function. 
The Committee went on to say in paragraph 8.31:   . . There is evidence of inflexibility, of delay and of confusion arising from inadequate standardisation and coordination of procedures. There is also less evidence of innovation to meet changing circumstances than might be expected in the light of current conditions. 
In paragraph 8.32, which deals with opportunities available to staff and the interchange that ought to be available to staff between various purchasing agencies, the Committee made the point: 
Career opportunities in procurement are limited even in the larger authorities such as the Department of Supply and the Postmaster-General's Department, and there is insufficient scope for career planning and interchange of personnel between various purchasing activities. 
Having in mind the remarks of the previous  speaker  in relation to the establishment of a centralised purchasing agency, I think it is quite clear from the Committee's report, particularly the sections which I have just read to the House, that it is desirable on all grounds that there be established a centralised purchasing agency for the departments and authorities of the Australian Government. 
Some almost emotional reference was made to the powers provided under clause 17 of the Bill. Reference was made to the possibility of suppliers being blackguarded. Clause 17 is very short and its importance is contained in the first few words. The clause states: 
The Minister may, by writing under his hand, give directions to the Commission with respect to the exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions, either generally or with respect to a  particular  case. 
Clearly any instruction or direction that the Minister gives to the Commission must be in writing and will always be in writing. When considering clause 17 one needs also to refer to clause 44 (3) which states: 
A report under sub-section (1) shall set out all directions given by the Minister to the Commission under section 17 during the period to which the report relates. 
Clause 44 deals with the submission by the Commission to the Parliament of its annual report. It is clear that any directions given by the Minister to the Commission must be in writing and must be included in the Commission's annual report to the Parliament. So I think that should put the previous speaker's mind at ease in respect of the emotional references he made to the wide powers contained in clause 17 and the implication that the Minister could do something that may not be reported to the Parliament or may not be made public. 
The claim was also made that the powers of the Minister in relation to the Commission could be used to implement social policies and objectives of the Government. Again this claim is discounted by the provisions of clause 17 and clause 44 (3). Without repeating the contents of both of those clauses, any direction that the Minister gives to the Commission must be in writing and must be provided to the Parliament for examination. 
Clause 37 deals with the establishment and composition of the Advisory Committee on Procurement. Again a safeguard in respect of ministerial direction is provided in clause 39 which states: 
A member of the Parliament may be appointed as a member of the Advisory Committee on Procurement or of any other Committee under this Act. 
The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  made it clear in his second reading speech that under the provisions of that clause the Government proposed to invite 2 members of Parliament, one from the Government and one from the Opposition, to serve on the Advisory Committee on Procurement. So once again we have the additional safeguard that each point of view will be represented on the Committee no matter what the Committee recommends or refers to the Commission. An avenue is provided for a report or for comment to be made in the Parliament on the activities of the Commission. 
I believe that the establishment of the Commission is long overdue. It will fulfil a function that has long been needed by the Australian Government and its departments in the purchasing field. As I said earlier, I think it is appropriate that we are adopting almost in toto the recommendations of the Scott Committee which was chaired by a man who is held in very high regard for his activities in the private enterprise field and who could not in any way be criticised for holding political views. I have much pleasure in recommending the Bill to the House. 
-We have heard from the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  the standard doctrinaire speech which one has come to expect from the National Country Party of Australia and those opposite. What the honourable member failed to point out was that the Liberal-Country Party Government during its administration of 23 years created the greatest number of socialistic enterprises ever created in one period of continuous government since Federation. Every marketing authority, every producers co-operative, every distributive authority, Trans-Australia Airlines, the rural credits, the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia, the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission which this Government wants to include in the Telecommunications Commission but which the Opposition is desperately fighting to retain as a separate entity, are all socialistic enterprises and were created under the hand of the honourable members who now sit opposite. 
If the honourable members want to talk about socialism, let them be honest. Their attitude towards economics is to socialise the losses- the taxpayer pays for this- and capitalise the profits. It is as simple as that. If people were here from day to day as we are they would know that the usual routine is that in the morning we are told that we should reduce expenditure or cut back on expenditure and in the afternoon we hear in addresses that we ought to increase expenditure. Let us look at what happened in the last few days in relation to the Australian Wool Corporation and the floor price plan for wool. Immediately there was a suggestion that this was an area in which a major saving could be achieved in the coming financial year, an outcry, which we all heard, occurred. 
Of the $3 80m which was made available out of almost $ 1,000m to all industry by way of assistance, almost one-third was to go to the Wool Corporation. There was no suggestion from the previous speaker that we should reduce expenditure in that area. There was no suggestion that we should reduce rural subsidies. Every measure which this Government has taken to reduce expenditure has been opposed by those who sit opposite. They will not come forward and they dare not come forward with any positive or specific proposal for a reduction in expenditure. They want to adopt the luxurious position of calling for reduction in expenditure but not accepting responsibility by indicating where the reductions should occur. I think therein lies the test of their credibility. The fact is that they do not have any credibility. They put forward only those sectional causes in which they are interested. 
I rose to refer in this grievance debate to my opposition to the practice of daylight saving. From my colleagues in the corner opposite I might have some support for this matter. I express my opposition to the concept of daylight saving. While I realise that this is a matter which is administered by each State, the effects of the decision taken by each State have an impact on national travel arrangements and national communication. In a few words, I believe that the introduction of summer daylight saving time has meant an increase in the leisure time of adults at the expense of the health of children. Recently we read in the newspapers that school children in New South Wales were seen to be falling asleep in class and were not attentive during class periods. The cause of this was ascribed to watching too many late television programs. I suggest that one of the causes is the long days which young children have to experience as a result of daylight saving and the difficulty which they have in getting to sleep in daylight hours. Adults have difficulty in trying to get children, arbitrarily between one day and the next, to adjust to a whole new time scale in their living habits. 
Arguments have been extended in support of daylight saving. Some people say that it extends outdoor leisure time at the end of the day without causing much disruption. It is said that sport, gardening, hobbies and similar activity can be carried out after the normal work day has finished. In addition, some people say they can start for work earlier in the cooler period of the day. Also, some economic benefits have been claimed. These appear to be incidental to the broad leisure, recreational purpose of daylight saving. For instance, it is claimed that in Western Australia daylight saving would result in a reduction in expenditure of $800,000 in the provision of electricity. But no statistics are available and no actual tests of which I know have been carried out to show the results of daylight saving. Reaction to daylight saving varies according to one's work and one's recreational activities. Newspapers have given considerable space over the past 4 years to readers expressing their opinions on the impact of daylight saving. These opinions have ranged from enthusiastic support to total rejection, which is my attitude. Family circumstances, young children, sport activities and livelihood, as with a farmer, for instance are the main determinants of these opinions. A number of reasons for opposition to daylight saving include the attitude- this is quite understandable in my opinion- of people who live in country areas and who oppose daylight saving more strongly than do urban dwellers. 
The fact is that rural production is often governed by the sun up- sun down cycle, regardless of what the clock says. Dairy production falls if cows are yarded in the hottest part of the day. Dairy farmers may have their milking schedules upset by revised clock times. Market gardeners get best results by planting seedlings in the cool of the early evening. In Queensland cane burning is limited to dusk when on-shore and offshore breezes are in equilibrium. The advent of daylight saving causes these activities to be conducted late at night, this disrupting other activities. Rural school children have to travel by bus to school. Their day is disrupted by having to rise considerably earlier and often by travelling home in the hottest part of the day. In some cases children are required to leave home shortly after the sun rises in times of daylight saving and stay up late, as I have said, at the end of the day. It is a fact which I think any parent of young children knows that it is very difficult to get young children to go to bed when it is still in daylight hours. 
The children want to enjoy themselves. They want to play. They want to carry out the normal activities in which they usually participate. It is difficult to expect them to go to sleep during those daylight periods. 
Unless daylight saving is uniformly applied in all States it disrupts trade and communications. Western Australia has decided by referendum not to have daylight saving. This has been the only referendum conducted and it is the only actual evidence of the community 'attitude apart from Gallup polls, which vary. The only community test has been the referendum in Western Australia where opposition to daylight saving was expressed. At this stage I mention a little more about the farmers' difficulties. I refer to a statement made by the Singleton branch of the United Farmers' and Woolgrowers' Association. It states: 
Daylight saving in its modern form was good for city people but not for farmers and graziers ... the farmer was concerned it affected dairying, hay cutting, vegetable growing and especially the dispatch of school children from the country early each morning. 
I think it is a very real problem for the children themselves because of its impact upon them and for the parents. The suggestion has been put forward that there could be an increase in the risk of skin cancer because of the longer exposure to sunlight. This suggestion has been put forward for the Anti-Daylight Saving Association by  Mr Tom  Clout. It has not been tested. I do not think anything in relation to daylight saving and its effect on people has been tested. I think it needs to be tested. Some industries have claimed economic losses. For instance hoteliers and drive-in theatres have claimed that the later hours of closing have an effect on patronage. Whether one accepts that that is a desirable form of patronage which ought to be increased is an individual matter. But the principle is that there ought to be some supervision or some sort of survey carried out as to effects both economically and biologically. Let us look at the United States. I have an extract from the Toronto 'Globe Mail' of 29 January 1974. The headline states: 
Florida seeking end to daylight time after 8 children die. 
I am not suggesting there is an ideal comparison between daylight saving in Florida and in Australia. But the newspaper article points out that there was an increase in deaths and accidents of children because they had to rise early in the morning and travel around in the dark of the morning hours. Senate Democratic leader Mike Mansfield called for the immediate repeal of winter daylight saving and said that it had failed as an energy conservation measure. Because time is running out I ask the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  to arrange for a survey to be carried out into the impact of daylight saving on the study habits and class attitudes of school children. I ask the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  to seek information on the impact of daylight saving on the health of school children. Possibly this could be carried out in conjunction with the survey which I have requested from the Minister for Education. 
I should like to join with the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0'Keefe)  in some of his remarks about flood mitigation work. In common with him, I have very strong recollections of the damage caused by the Hunter River in parts of his electorate and in other parts of the Hunter Valley. I can recall what used to be a regular sequence of property loss and damage caused by the Hunter River. I can recall in 1955 the severe hardship and damage that were caused by the Hunter River, particularly at Maitland. I can recall during those floods going to the area with teams of community workers to assist in repair work and in the recovery of homes and people's possessions. I think it is appropriate to say that the New South Wales Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission has done some very good work in controlling and directing the course of the Hunter River. It has carried out control measures which since 1955 no doubt have saved a lot of hardship and loss of property which otherwise would have occurred through severe flood damage. I welcome the remarks of the honourable member for Paterson in respect of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. He seems to have comprehended one of the things that we were trying to get across to the Opposition in the debate on the legislation concerned with the Corporation, and that is that there is a need for national disaster insurance. There is a need to provide across-the-board protection for people who are likely to be the victims of floods and of other natural occurrences over which man has no control. 
I am pleased to have the opportunity to support this Bill which seeks to amend the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974. There is no need to recapitulate the stories about loss and personal hardship that occurred in the aftermath of the Brisbane floods in early 1974. Suffice it to say that much of the property damage- not to mention the loss of human lives- could have been avoided with closer control over building and development approvals. The Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  has stated on other occasions that flood plains are for floods. This fact should be borne strongly in mind in all land use planning schemes. The funds to be provided to the Brisbane City Council under this amendment to the Act will enable flood mitigation works to be carried out on the Enoggera and Breakfast Creeks to prevent property damage and loss of life should there be in Brisbane another flood of the magnitude of the tragic flood of last year. I wish to emphasise the point made by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  earlier in the debate, namely, that the $450,000 to be provided under this amendment to the Act is being matched by the Queensland Government by way of a non-repayable subsidy or grantwhatever one cares to term it. So, 40 per cent of the total cost, or $450,000, will be provided by the Australian Government, 40 per cent of the total cost will be provided by the Queensland Government, and the remaining 20 per cent of the total cost will be provided by the Brisbane City Council. 
Despite the claims of opponents of the Aus.tralian Government about the infringement of State rights by this Government, this legislation is a shining example of the co-operation and coordination between the 3 levels of government in our nation that can develop and that do exist. It is an example of the results that can be achieved when problems confronting the community are approached in a true spirit of co-operative federalism, which has been promoted so staunchly by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who is presently sitting at the table. He has been outstandingly successful in promoting a spirit of co-operative federalism in relation to the responsibilities of his portfolio. 
When this Government came to office, one of its early decisions was to set about developing a national approach to water resources in lieu of the previous piecemeal system of providing financial assistance to the States for water resources management. This sum of $450,000 from the Australian Government should be seen as the first instalment of a future capital works program to improve the quantity of water supplies, to improve the quality of water supplies and to prevent property damage at times of unavoidable floods. The Australian Government has asked all States to submit a 10-year program for water resources development. This will include not only urban projects concerning urban water supply and flood mitigation but also rural projects concerning flood mitigation and irrigation. Those 10-year programs are coming in readily and the Australian Government will be examining them and allocating financial assistance on the basis of national priorities. In the interim urgent projects such as the one now before the House, the Breakfast Creek /Enoggera project, and the one which was approved some months ago in respect of the Adelaide water supply, have been undertaken to try to alleviate the existing conditions. 
Reference is made in the principal Act to land commissions. A level of harmony and cooperation can be achieved when problems are approached in the true spirit of trying to find a solution and when they are approached by all levels of government. Again the Department of Urban and Regional Development has been remarkably successful in this area. Land commissions have been established in 3 States and the stage has been reached that urban land councils are now operative in South Australia, New South Wales and Western Australia. I understand that agreements with Victoria and Tasmania are shortly to be signed. Under that program there will be a direct flow of finance from the Federal Government to State governments to assist in providing additional home sites based on the cost of acquiring and developing those sites rather than on whether there is a profit incentive to make home sites available. 
We hear constantly of the need for local government to receive assistance from the federal purse. Last week the Opposition mentioned that 5 per cent of federal income tax revenue should be directed to local government. I do not support the proposal of a flat percentage. At least it should be looked at a lot more closely before we set a flat percentage figure. But through the Department of Urban and Regional Development, through its recognition and co-operation with local government and the State governments, there is already a direct flow of funds from the Federal Treasury right down to the ground level of local government. 
I wish now to look at the establishment of the regional organisations. I mention the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  and myself in respect of the Hunter Valley and I point out the success that has been achieved by the Hunter regional organisation which embraces 15 councils in the Hunter Valley, covering geographically almost the whole of the Hunter Valley. In that organisation there are 5 urban or semiurban councils, with a clear majority of the population of the Hunter Valley, and 10 rural councils. 
With progressive leadership, as the Minister points out. Almost complete harmony has been achieved by the members of the Hunter regional organisation. As I pointed out, ten of them are from rural areas and five are from urban or semi-urban areas. The problems of the region have been approached properly and responsibly by the regional organisation on the basis of what is best for the region. This in itself evidences a very large step forward for local government, because if the community is to receive the services it needs right down at local government level in terms of community facilities, better roads, better drains and better kerbing and guttering- things as mundane as thatthe personnel of local government must be prepared to look beyond their own council area. The mechanism provided by the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the Australian Government, through the regional organisations, gives them the opportunity to do that. 
I would like to pay tribute to the Hunter regional organisation for its forward thinking and for the spirit of co-operation that exists between those 15 councils. I put that forward to the House as an example of what can be achieved by people in local government and by the 3 levels of government in this nation when all concerned get together, face up to the problem and look at ways of solving the problem, not with a view to trying toobtain some cheap or quick political mileage but rather in providing solutions that are best suited to meet the community need. I commend the Bill to the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What fund raising appeals, known as telethons, have been conducted by (a) television and (b) radio stations in Australia during the last 2 years. 
For what purpose was each of these appeals conducted. 
What amount was promised by donors in each of these appeals. 
What amount was actually collected in each of these appeals, and what percentage did the actual collection represent of donations promised. 
What amounts were actually paid to the charitable causes concerned. 
What charges were made by each of the (a) television and (b) radio stations for facilities provided during conduct of the telethon appeals. 
Can stations nominate the amounts to be paid to specific individuals and/or specific groups. 
The Minister representing the Minister for the Media will be aware of the large number of appeals that were conducted following the Darwin cyclone disaster. I ask the Minister: What power does the Australian Government have under the Broadcasting and Television Act to supervise the conduct of telethon appeals by radio and television stations? What supervision is made of the amounts collected as compared with the amounts promised to radio and television stations? What supervision is made of the amounts deducted by television stations from the money collected during the telethons? For what reasons are the deductions made? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What new private hospitals have been opened in the Hunter Region of New South Wales during the last 3 years. 
What is the name and location of each hospital. 
How many beds are provided in each hospital. 
What areas of health care do each of the hospitals specialise in providing. 
5 ) Who are the proprietors of each of the hospitals. 
If they are not wholly owned by individuals, who are the shareholders in each, and what is the composition of the shareholdings. 
-I ask the Minister Assisting the Minister for Social Security: What action can the Australian Government take to prevent the heartless, callous and iniquitous practice being followed by some general practitioners in demanding payment in advance, at rates oftentimes in excess of the scheduled fee, from invalid and age pensioners before they will provide medical attention? 
-We have heard at best a good deal of irrelevance from members on the Opposition side in relation to this legislation but I would like to pick up probably the singular point that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  mentioned and that was freedom. That is really what this legislation is all about. He said he cherished freedom. All Australians cherish freedom. I know that the poultry farmers who would like to run more fowls and produce more eggs in New South Wales are being fined because - 
Or course they are licensed. The New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government licensed them. Where is the freedom of the poultry farmer? Where is the freedom of the dairy farmer who wants to produce milk and sell milk? They wanted to gaol one fellow in New South Wales a few months ago for selling or producing milk. 
The Liberal-Country Party. These are the people who talk about freedom. What about the wheat farmer? He cherishes freedom too. What about the quotas which a Liberal-Country Party Government put on his production and said: 'No, you cannot plant wheat. You will market the wheat the way we say that you can market it.' What about his freedom to follow the occupation of his individual choice? What about his personal rights as a citizen? That is really what this legislation is all about- ensuring the freedom of political opportunity. It is about removing the financial barriers that were set by those who now sit opposite and induced by those who sit opposite to prevent the ordinary citizen, the ordinary Australian, from participating in a parliamentary process. They know as well as we know, as well as all thinking Australians know, that without some kind of financial backing for campaign funds one cannot participate in an election campaign with some hope of success. They created the situation. The electoral laws that they created and superintended for 23 years brought about the present situation and the most minor move to try to improve that opportunity, that equality, is opposed by them in every respect. Every type of legislation to reform the electoral system which has been put forward has been opposed by the 
Opposition Parties, For a member of the National Country Party to stand and speak about cherishing freedom is to me so much hollow hypocrisy. They have denied freedom to so many people, to so many citizens during their tenure in office and they will continue to deny freedom. 
All this Bill seeks to do is to provide for the public examination of the sources of campaign funds for political parties. What is wrong with that? Is there something terrible about people knowing this? Are the public not entitled to know where the funds that go into electoral campaigns come from? I can only reiterate the point made by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan).  Either the Opposition Parties are ashamed to reveal the source of their campaign funds or their donors are ashamed to reveal their connection with them. Or is the reason more likely to be the one that was brought forward by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  in this House on 13 February 1975 when, in relation to this Bill, he is reported at page 295 of Hansard to have said: 
If this Bill becomes law it will tend to reduce the level of financial support to political parties especially from those donors who would wish to remain anonymous. It would more seriously affect the Liberal and Country Parties than it would the Labor Party. Let us be frank about this. 
Why do donors wish to remain anonymous? What are the pressures being exerted upon the Liberal-Country Parties? Let us consider the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation. Who was connected with the Australian Mutual Provident Society? Who is using the facilities of the AMP? None other than the National Country Party. They are the people who are utilising the services of the policy holders- the citizens of Australia who are paying the premiums- to support the campaigns of the National Country Party or the Liberal Party. Is this the kind of freedom the honourable member for Kennedy is talking about? Has he some other definition that applies only to the LiberalCountry Party coalition? 
As recently as yesterday there was a report in the  Financial Review  referring to the director of the Queensland National Party campaign who came out with a statement that it wishes to raise $1m. This is the National Party of Queensland. The law that operates is a law that was brought into operation by the people that he would be supporting in an election campaign. The law permits expenditure of $500 a candidate but here is a responsible organiser in the Country Party saying 'We want $1m'. I do not know how many times one divides $1m to get $500 a head, but that is law and order for the National Country Party. I move to the Liberal Party and refer to a letter from the Liberal Party of Australia, New South Wales division, Western Metropolitan Region, dated 1 1 September 1974. It reads: 
Dear  Sir. 
Re: The Survival of the Liberal Party 
The Industrial, Business and Professional Communities are facing mounting financial problems and possible collapse- so is the Liberal Party. 
Frankly, the stark position of the Liberal Party is that it must raise $5,000 within the Western Metropolitan Region in conjunction with similar fund raising efforts throughout New South Wales or collapse. 
The letter is signed by M. E. Lajovic. I turn now to the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  who sent a letter dated April 1974 to one of my constituents. This letter was mentioned by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  on earlier occasions. In this letter the Leader of the Country Party mentioned that the Opposition was facing the greatest electoral battle in its history- an unsuccessful electoral battle. I will not read the letter. I will simply read the postscript to refute the contributions of earlier speakers from the other side of the House. It reads: 
You may be interested to know donations so far from the Mining Industry vary from amounts of $500 to $5,000. 
Yours faithfully, 
D.ANTHONY 
So let me put paid to the suggestions from honourable members opposite that they do not know the source of their funds or they do not want to disclose it. 
Finally, the point made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  about fascist principles had a great deal of pertinence to the debate because here today operating in the private sector of the community is the exact thing about which he complained- the moguls of the insurance industry coercing employees in the industry into signing petitions, writing innocuous letters, giving their time and utilising policy holders' money to promote the political causes of those who sit opposite. The Bill seeks only to ensure that the public of Australia know where political funds come from and that Australians have a much better level of opportunity- in short, equal political opportunity for all Australians. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question put. 
-I ask the Attorney-General: What would be the effect of the abolition of the Australian Legal Aid Office on the provisions of the Family Law Act? Will he assure the House that the operations of the Australian Legal Aid Office will be continued and expanded to ensure that legal advice, assistance and representation will be available to tens of thousands of Australians who could not otherwise afford legal services? Further, what progress has been made towards the establishment of an Australian Legal Aid Office in Charlestown? 
-I offer my congratulations to the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  on his maiden contribution in this chamber. No doubt we will be hearing from him again in the future. At a time of economic difficulty being experienced not only by the Australian Government but by all of our partners around the world, this year's Budget is framed on a basis of responsibility and of consolidation of earlier social advances. There is no magic prescription to solve the economic ills of the industrialised nations. There is no simple fiscal act that this Government or any government could take that will put an end to inflation and to the problems which go with it. 
To attempt to lead people to believe that there is an easy, painless, quick decision or set of directives that could be made that would abolish inflation is dangerous and politically dishonest. Unfortunately, our opponents opposite would like Australians to think that there is an easy way out of our difficulties, but they well know that there is not. At the same time, Opposition prophets of doom, in collaboration with thenfriends in the media, deliberately continue to sabotage confidence in the private sector of the Australian economy. General problems of inflation and unemployment are universal in all industrialised nations. There is no single solution, no painless remedy. Unfortunately the policy of the Opposition has been to create uncertainty, fear and division in the community. The Opposition has vigorously pursued that course since December 1972. I can describe it only as a fifth column within our Australian community. 
The present Opposition is the most dangerous and divisive in the history of Australia. In fact, I would say that it is the most treacherous in Australia's history. Its attitude has been one of continuing irresponsibility without regard for the damage that it causes in the commercial and community fabric of this nation. The Opposition has constantly exaggerated claims of collapse. Its strategy is the strategy of the Nazi system which is based on fear, hatred and divisiveness. National interest is of no account to the Opposition. When we consider the grip that the Australian League of Rights has on the Australian National Country Party, what I have said is understandable. On the other side of the House, we have a gaggle of modern-day Goebbels, producing lies, hes and bigger lies. Facts do not count; the purpose is just to create fear, hatred and divisiveness. 
Australia when compared with its trading partners is a lucky country. But if the coercion and intimidation of people by the establishment such as is occurring in the insurance industry today, is to continue Australia will cease to be a lucky country. If migrant groups are to be whipped up into a frenzy on the basis of pre- World War II beliefs . on the other side of the world, if intolerance, greed and disregard for the less endowed and the less fortunate are to be encouraged as they are being encouraged by the Opposition, there can be only one result, and that is violence which is something by which this Government, by which all Labor people and by which all Australians are revulsed This is something to which the Opposition does not seem to be paying any regard at all. 
The social disturbance which comes with inflation calls for greater tolerance and greater responsibility on the part of all people, especially those in Opposition. Contrast the performance and attitudes of the Opposition in this place with the Opposition in the United Kingdom. The Opposition and Government parties in the United Kingdom have their philosophical differences. But there the Opposition team together with the Government of the United Kingdom has accepted the need for a greater effort on the part of the Opposition and of the Government and of the people in attacking the problem of inflation. That problem is being attacked on a united basis. They have their differences in politics. But both the Government and the Opposition realise that the difficulties and problems of inflation must be faced and those difficulties and problems are being faced by a united effort. 
The world is in difficult times. Australia is in difficult times. But those difficulties will be overcome only by a greater effort on the part of labour and capital and on the part of the community in facing the tasks which confront them. Those difficulties will not be overcome by Oppositions and vested interests trying to obtain short term petty party political advantage by creating confusion, fear and uncertainty. 
There is an old saying that nothing is new. That applies particularly to the Opposition's beliefs and policies. These include the perpetuation of privilege and class division. The Opposition demonstrates examples of that daily. The Opposition says: "The more you have, the more we will help you, at the expense of the poorer taxpayers. Second-rate health services are good enough for the poorer taxpayers. The poorer should pay for the richer'. We have seen the example of this in the confusion that exists in the Opposition ranks over Medibank. We are told that Medibank is in. Then we are told that Medibank is out. We are told that the Opposition supports Medibank and then the Opposition spokesman on health, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  says that the Opposition would change Medibank. It would seem to me that it is more likely that if the Opposition by some mischance ever came to government, Medibank would get the' Chipp'. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said that the Public Service will have zero growth, which in fact is negative growth. One of his predecessors had something to say on this subject back in 1949. Let me quote a small section of what that person had to say in that speech in a paper in 1 949. 
-Just be patient and I will read it to the honourable member. I will read it slowly so that he can understand it 
-I will go very slowly. This person said: 
COMMONWEALTH PUBLIC SERVICE 
We believe that the rapid growth of socialist ideas and practices in Australia is transferring far too many people from productive to administrative activities, and that this represents a grave danger to our future. 
At that time, there were 141 716 Commonwealth public servants. When the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government went from office in 1972, the Commonwealth Public Service had grown to 246 876, an increase of 105 160 or 74.2 per cent. All I can say in respect of the remarks by that spokesman in 1949 is that we must have had many strong advocates of socialism sitting on the Government benches in those succeeding years. So much for zero growth as put forward by the Opposition in this Budget debate. 
The same Opposition leader said in 1949 that he would abolish the means test on pensions. Yet, 23 years later, nothing had been done about that abolition. Instead, the present Leader of the 
Opposition has clearly indicated that the Opposition's intention if it ever came to government would be to restrict and to reduce welfare payments. In the view of the Opposition, it is a sin to consider the unfortunate, the injured, the aged and the under-privileged. The Opposition would create a society devoid of compassion and concern for those less fortunate than its members and those they represent. That is really the message that the Leader of the Opposition is trying to put across to the Australian people. That is the message of the privileged people whom he represents. It is the message that they are preaching around the countryside. It is a policy of 'grab what you can while you can and to hell with the less fortunate. All praise to profit. Profit is a virtue. ' 
Everyone is entitled to a reasonable return on his or her labour or a reasonable return on his or her invested capital. But the Leader of the Opposition is concerned not about people but about profits. Profits before people is his cry, and the less privileged, those struggling to improve their station in life, will heed it at their peril. Work, wages and struggle are things that are foreign to the Leader of the Opposition. 
The continuing campaign by the Opposition to destroy public confidence and to undermine our social structure makes it a unique Opposition among Oppositions in the industrialised nations of the world. As I said earlier, its tactics are the classic ones of Nazism. Those tactics are to create uncertainty, destroy confidence and to create fear among the community, and then to bring out the whip of oppression and to trample the underprivileged and the less endowed. On the one hand, the Opposition denigrates unemployment. On the other hand it denigrates the same unemployed who receive financial assistance from the public purse. The Opposition cannot have it both ways. 
That would include most members of the Opposition. The present Opposition, led by that man of inherited wealth, the honourable member for Wannon, is the most conservative and reactionary since pre-Menzies days. The present Opposition wants a reversion to economic slavery in which those on lesser incomes should support those on higher incomes. It is appropriate at this stage to refer to the editorial which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  on 5 August 1975. In part, that editorial said: 

 Mr Fraser pledges the Liberals to reject 'enforced equality in the work place, in the economy, in education'. What equality? Migrant workers, battling the boredom of the assembly line, may wonder how many others in the work place have been forced down to their level. Women who have just discovered that equal pay does not yet mean equal opportunity, or even equal rights to employment when employers are forced to retrench, may question the value of equalities which are not enforced. Families still struggling to reach even the poverty line, pensioners who depend entirely on the benevolence of the Treasurer to keep pace with rising costs, and working mothers, farming out their children to friends while they wait for professionally staffed child care centres, will wonder what  Mr Fraser's  equality holds out for them. And quotes about equality in education, spontaneous or enforced, will make quaint texts for lessons in social studies in the crowded classrooms of inner suburban schools, where harassed teachers struggle to communicate to migrant children who have not yet mastered the language, much less bridged the cultural gap. 
I refer again to the  Sydney Morning Herald  and what was said a few months back by a previous Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  in expressing his attitude towards assistance to the underprivileged. He said: 
It is of the utmost importance that in social services, in education, in health, in the submerged lands and sea areaand in many, but not all others- there should be an expanding, not a contracting, role for the Commonwealth. 
We know what they did to him. It just points up the reversion of the Liberal and National Country Party Opposition to reaction and to privilege. Earlier today we heard the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  the sole member of the Opposition who put the view in the last session that the proposals of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation in respect of natural disasters ought to be implemented as soon as possible. Today he referred to oil prices and the effect of a $2 a barrel levy on crude oil and petrol prices. He ought to know, because he is in the business of buying and selling petrol and oils. However he made no mention of the proposal put by his own leader at the last election that wellhead crude oil prices should be increased by 40 per cent to increase the profits of overseas corporations. It would have meant an increase of in excess of 20c a gallon in the price of petrol to provide super profits for overseas oil corporations. 
It is no good denying it. It is no good honourable members opposite denying that they support a $2 a barrel levy on crude oil. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said that. He has also indicated his support for the coal levy. He has also indicated his support for the increased postal and telephone charges. I say to the National Country Party: If you have a different view, please put it. We want to hear your view. We do not want the Leader of the Opposition to speak for you if you have different views. The National Country Party ought to be putting its views. What did the right honourable member for Higgins have to say about oil prices? In an article he wrote in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 8 April 1975, referring to the Liberal and Country parties and their unity, he said: 
There are many other things which divide the parties. Oil prices which ought not to be raised except to allow for inflation, but which  Mr Anthony  wishes to raise-to the detriment of all petrol users and without the benefit going, as in Arab countries, to the Government. 
The right honourable member for Higgins believes that the Leader of the National Country Party suggested an increase in oil prices. I do not know why the National Country Party does not accept it. I turn to the Regional Employment Development scheme and the comment made about it by the honourable member for Paterson. He mentioned that money had not been wisely used under the RED scheme. He, as does each of us in this chamber, knows that an application for RED grants comes within the purview of the federal member concerned. If a federal member thought that a project was not a worthwhile one and was not in the community interest, he should have expressed opposition. If he had expressed opposition to it the matter would have been brought to the notice of the committee concerned and the Minister responsible and could have been dealt with. But in the electorate of Paterson and the electorate of Cowper we have had the spectacle of registered and licensed clubs getting hundreds of thousands of dollars for golf clubs and bowling clubs. 
Then we hear a comment from the Opposition that the money is not being wisely used. Again members of the Opposition cannot have it both ways. If they thought a project was not worthwhile, why did they not express their view at the relevant time? They could have expressed a view then. All I can go on are the regular Press reports from the honourable member for Paterson in the Newcastle  Morning Herald  announcing the awarding of $99,500 for a golf club and $38,500 for another golf club. Earlier we heard members of the National Country Party saying: 'We want telephones. We want lower postal charges'. Why did the Country Party not speak out at the relevant time? As I say, it can have it only one way, not both ways. Members of the Country Party should accept their responsibility as Federal members. If they do not think the expenditure of public money is wise they should object at the relevant time, not cry about it later and try to blame somebody else. 
I move to the attitude of the Government towards small business. We have heard much about the interest in the private sector. The Opposition is not concerned about small business. It never has been concerned about small business. When in government it commissioned an inquiry headed by  Mr Wiltshire  in 1968. The report of the Committee on Small Businesses was completed in June 1971. What happened to it? It lay in a pigeonhole until the present Government came into office. Eighteen months after the report was completed it was tabled in this House on 12 April 1973. That reflects the attitude of the Opposition towards small business. It is just not interested. It is only trying to get a little bit of political capital by referring to small business at the moment. During the period of 23 years of office of the previous Government 81 500 small retail food businesses went out of business. Fifty-nine per cent of small food retailers went to the wall. We did not hear about any government help for them. We did not hear about any subsidy or compensation being offered in those days. 
The previous Government would not even table the report that was presented to it on the matter. It would not even make some move towards recognising the difficulties of small business or towards limiting the growth of chain stores. Look at the figures. In the 1950s the unaffiliated retailer had 40 per cent of the business. By 1973 he had 4 per cent of the business. Where was the Opposition's concern? What is it talking about now? It is not interested in the small retailer. When this Government has moved to try to help the small retailer the Opposition has tried to block it. The piece of legislation that has helped the small businessman more than anything else- and history will show this- is the Trade Practices Act. What did the Opposition do with the Trade Practices Act? It delayed it for 18 months. For 18 months it stonewalled and stalled in another place to prevent that Bill from going through. It is the small trader, the individual businessman, who benefits most from the Trade Practices Act, and he is benefiting today. 
Another proposal of the Opposition is to abolish the Australian Legal Aid Office. The Australian Legal Aid Office, in the time it has been in operation, has provided assistance to 130 000 Australian citizens. They are 130 000 Australian citizens who would not have got legal advice or assistance otherwise. The Opposition wants to deprive these 130 000 people and many hundreds of thousands more to come of any kind of legal assistance simply because they cannot afford to pay for the services of the people it wants to protect or represent. 
The Opposition's main interest is with profit. Higher profits entail higher prices. Higher prices must means higher inflation. I do not know how lower inflation can be achieved with higher prices. If higher profits result in higher prices, so much for the Opposition's policies and attitudes on inflation. It does not have a coherent policy on inflation. Every move that has been made by this Government since it came to office in 1972 to control prices or to limit the cost of living the Opposition has opposed. It opposed the Prices Justification Tribunal. It opposed currency revaluation. It opposed a prices and incomes referendum. It opposed the Trade Practices Act. It was dragged screaming to the altar on each one of these issues not because it supported them but because philosophically it opposed them. It did not want these things to come into operation. If anyone thinks for one moment that the present Opposition, if ever it were in government, would be looking towards limiting prices, he should think again. I do not think anybody would challenge the proposition that if the McMahon Government had remained in office in 1972 until the present day price levels and inflation levels would be considerably higher than they now are. 
I leave those thoughts with the Australian people and remind them of the record and attitude of the Opposition and its leaders prior to 1972. They are not concerned for the small man. They are not concerned for people. They are concerned for profit and they are concerned for the vested interests that pay for their electoral campaigns. I commend the Budget to the House. 
I am always puzzled that the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  put the Returned Services League forward as being a non-political organisation; it probably has more to say about politics in this country than have most political organisations. 
I would expect the honourable member, as a  Deputy Speaker,  at least to have the manners to listen to me in silence. Apparently he does not have those manners. It may be a consequence of the political activities of the RSL that a substantial proportion of the exservicemen eligible to be members are not members of it. I do not know the reasons why they are not members of it. I do not know the reasons why they are not members but the matter is worth considering That is all I intend to say about it. I think that a lot more could be done for young people by organisations within the RSL than is being done. I know that some RSL clubs do a first rate job to assist our youth, and that is the sort of example that could be emulated by all the other RSL organisations. 
I rise to speak about Medibank and to bring to the notice of the Parliament some of the hardships that are being inflicted on pensioners and particularly sick pensioners in my electorate. The Opposition will abolish Medibank if it becomes the Government again, let there be no doubt about that. The role being played by some members of the medical profession in my electorate can only be described as one of brutality and callousness, and one that is totally mercenary. I would like to instance the position of a couple in their 80s who, just prior to 1 July, sat at home worrying about what would happen to them if they became sick at the weekend because they have been told by the doctor who treated them for some years previously under the pensioners medical scheme that after 1 July if they became ill he would require payment in advance when he called at their home before treatment would be given. The couple have only their pension, that is their only source of income. Their concern was whether they would have sufficient money on the mantleshelf if they became ill. They were not concerned about their illness; they were concerned about their payment to the doctor. 
I would like to mention the case of another doctor. After 1 July a person ill with influenza went to the surgery and was told: 'Doctor will not see you unless you pay cash before you go in.' The person said: 'I do not have that money with me and was told: 'I am sorry, doctor will not see you unless you pay the money first. ' 
The Hippocratic oath has become the hypocritic oath. I have mentioned 2 instances. The third one relates to the way in which members of the medical profession are ripping off the public purse. In this case a lady had her teenage daughter at home sick with influenza. The doctor had visited her the day before and had prescribed antibiotics. The following day the second daughter of the family became ill and was confined to bed. The mother went to the doctor's surgery and was told that the daughter should be brought to the surgery. The mother said that the daughter was too ill to be brought to the surgery. The receptionist said: 'Doctor cannot go and see her. She will have to come up here. "The mother told the receptionist the condition of her daughter, the receptionist then spoke to the doctor and the doctor said: 'Well, we will give her some of the same medicaments that were prescribed for the elder daughter.' The elder daughter had developed a severe pain in the ear and the doctor's prescription for that was some drops. The doctor did this without sighting either patient and without visiting them, but he charged a fee. That apparently is equality, apparently it is honourable and apparently it is quite all right to rip off the public purse. 
The other thing being done by doctors in respect of Medibank and ripping off the public purse is to force pensioners to pay in advance, or to make them fill in a claim form, send them to the Medibank office where they can get a cash payment and have them return to the doctor's surgery. They are doing this one by one. Every member of the Opposition knows that that is placing a greatly exaggerated load on the resources of Medibank. It is placing a greatly increased financial burden on the operation of Medibank and it is a waste of the taxpayers' money. Apparently it is all right with the Opposition if its supporters waste the taxpayers' money. To them that represents responsible government but to me it illustrates the politics of greed. In the Newcastle area generally, over half of the doctors are creating severe anxiety and hardship, particularly for aged people who are sick, while at the same time they are grabbing everything they can out of the public purse. 
I want to refer now to chemists and what some of them are doing. We have heard the Opposition criticising the cost of Medibank but chemists are adding to the cost because of a procedure they have adopted. A person comes in with more than one receipt to claim under Medibank. The claim form has 8 spaces in which claims can be written. Eight claims can be placed on one application sheet. The chemists are writing one claim on each sheet and then submitting one claim each day so that each goes in a different batch and they can get the 50c. They get the commission on each receipt handed in by the patient. They are doing this rather than putting them all through on the one claim form as was intended under Medibank. 
I would have thought that these are the kind of malpractices to which the Opposition would be drawing attention. I know that members of the Opposition claim to be concerned for economy and responsibility in public expenditure. I know that they claim to be concerned about reducing the cost of Medibank. However, I am puzzled that since 1 July not one of these matters has been brought to the attention of this Parliament Not once has the Opposition made any suggestion as to how the cost of Medibank could be reduced or as to how its resources could be used more efficiently. There is no doubt whatsoever, as I said earlier, that if the Opposition Parties become the government at some stage Medibank will be one of the first schemes for the chop. This point was highlighted by the well informed comment of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on Budget night that if we did not have the $ 1,400m expenditure on Medibank we could halve the proposed deficit for this financial year. That indicates the concern of the Opposition for Medibank. 
The Medibank scheme is designed to assist pensioners and to remove them from the insecurity that goes with illness in later years. By endorsing what the medical profession is doing in ripping off public money and by making constant statements as to the uncertainty of Medibank, and by not indicating a clear policy of support for Medibank, the Opposition Parties in fact are encouraging certain members of the medical profession to go on with their rorts- they are nothing but rorts- and creating that severe personal anxiety, hardship, worry and concern that our pensioners and our aged are undergoing. I appeal to the Opposition to come clean and to declare one way or another where it stands on Medibank, whether it supports care for our aged and whether it supports removing hardship from the lot of our aged people. 
-I ask the Prime Minister. Is the Government giving consideration to conducting a referendum to amend the Constitution to ensure that a casual Senate vacancy is filled by a person endorsed by the political Party of his or her predecessor, particularly in light of the support expressed for this principle by the Leader of the Opposition, the Liberal  Deputy  Premier of Queensland and the  President  of the Queensland Liberal Party? 
-In the few minutes available to me this evening I want to say something about the concept of freedom as advanced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or rather, as I prefer to term it, more Fraser foolishness. In his address to the National Press Club on 31 July 1975 the Leader of the Opposition said: 
Liberals believe that maximum freedom from dictation and regulation is essential to self respect and self fulfilment. Without freedom there is no self respect. They want freedom to strive and freedom to achieve and to seek excellencefreedom to be different and freedom to conform. 
He went on to state the proposition that 'men gain faith in themselves and their capacities through achieving through their own efforts' and to this end his first action if ever he were to assume government would be to 'restore the rewards and reverse the penalties on excellence, achievement and enterprise'. 
It is interesting to note that 'excellence' is the goal for which we are all to strive and for which some are to be rewarded. It might be thought that the achievement of excellence would be sufficient reward in itself, but the excellence to which the Leader of the Opposition refers appears to be that of making large sums of money because the rewards are to involve being allowed to keep as much of it as possible. Once that is understood, it appears that excellence is not a subjective but an objective standard, capable of being achieved by only a very few and capable of being ascertained only by a comparison with the financial achievements of others. It is not related to effort, because one man with advantages and privileges may excel with little effort or be born into a position of excellence, while another may strive and do his best and know that he has not excelled because others are richer than he is. It is a concept that has nothing to do with self-respect because it makes a man look outside himself and assess his achievements by reference to the standards of others, whereas true self-respect involves knowing one's own potential and living up to it. It is also a dangerous concept because it encourages those who do succeed to believe that those who fail are inferior. Surely it is this sort of attitude that enables the Leader of the Opposition to describe people on unemployment benefits as 'those who do not care to work'. This hardly demonstrates 'a compassionate concern for those in need ' and it is not conducive to self-respect for those who, due to initial deprivation, do not make the grade. 
In case the amount of effort involved for most people in achieving excellence appears to be too dreary, the Leader of the Opposition throws in the exciting alternative concept of 'a life in which people are free to make their own fives, to experiment, to risk, to adventure'. This is another dangerous concept because it is glamorous and suggests to people whose lives are boring and full of drudgery that in some way things might be changed; they, too, might sail around the world, or give away their medical practice and invest their savings in an avocado farm. Perhaps we may look forward to a return to the mining boom. The Leader of the Opposition does not specify the risks or adventures he has in mind. To the great majority of Australians the chance to take risks is meaningless. 
Coupled with the achievement of excellence by the efforts of the individual comes a promise to reduce the amount of regulation imposed on individuals by the Australian Government. In a speech made at a dinner for the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  on 18 June 1975, the Leader of the Opposition spoke of .the 'increasing control over the nation's life, over the life of people, by civil servants, by government appointees and by politicians'. It seems that the control to which he most objects is that of taxation, because this restricts the freedom of the individual to spend the income he or she earns. This, he says, is a basic freedom without which other freedoms, such as freedom of speech, association and so on, are meaningless. If individuals do not have freedom to control thenown lives they do not have self-respect and they do not have dignity. It is true that individuals in Australia are, to a very large extent, not free to control their own lives. There are controls, both direct and indirect, which hinder individuals in doing what they choose and in obtaining their desires. Many of the direct controls are imposed by governments; the indirect controls are provided by the circumstances in which they find themselves. The controls imposed by governments are supposed to be imposed equally on all; the controls of circumstance apply most strongly to those who are already disadvantaged or deprived. It is only the controls imposed by governments that the Leader of the Opposition believes should be relaxed. In particular, the relaxation is to be made in the taxation laws which are to provide funds to assist people whose lives are indirectly controlled by their disadvantages. Taxation laws are, apparently, not conducive to self-respect or human dignity. 
An individual becomes subject to control soon after birth, when the event is required to be registered, and remains so until his death, which also must be registered. The concepts of freedom, human dignity and self-respect are apparently new-found ones for the Leader of the Opposition. On analysis it would seem that the only freedom in which the Leader of the Opposition is really interested is that of retaining control over one's own income. A person on an inadequate income may have freedom of choice to send his children to the best schools or to choose the best doctor, but he will find those freedoms meaningless. To a person who is worried about his next meal, the right to vote may be irrelevant. Yet efforts to ensure that all Australians are in a position to enjoy the freedoms we value are described by the Leader of the Opposition as 'enforced equality'. The young Australians of this nation might well remember the bitter experience of the 1960s, when the Leader of the Opposition was the Minister for Defence and his concept of freedom was the right to be conscripted and sent off to fight in a tragic, useless political war to salve the political consciences of supporters abroad and supporters who profited from that political war. 
-In supporting the estimates for the Department of the 
Special Minister of State which total $92,903,000 I would like to remind the Committee of the broad range of responsibilities of the Department. The funds to be provided for in the estimates cover not only the administrative and salary costs of the Department but items such as the Remuneration Tribunal, the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the Australian War Memorial, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, the Australian Archives, the Grants Commission, Parliamentary delegations abroad, facilities provided to the Leader of the Opposition and parliamentary parties,  deputy  leaders of the Opposition and Whips- for which, incidentally, $988,300 is provided in the estimates for staff, postage, telephone charges and incidental expenses- the National Library, the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Industries Assistance Commission. 
The nature of this debate, despite being known as the Budget Estimates debate, does not provide the kind of forum that is required to allow for an analytical examination of the individual estimates of the various divisions listed. I want to limit my remarks to the impact of the now expanded role of the Grants Commission on local government in Australia, remembering that everything that this Government has attempted to do for local government has been bitterly opposed by members of the Opposition and their State colleagues. Even the expanded role of the Grants Commission was opposed by the Opposition. It opposed local government representatives on the Loan Council. It opposed the holding of a referendum for an amendment to be made to the Constitution to enable local government to receive direct financial assistance from the Federal Government. It even opposed local government being dealt with by the .Constitutional Convention which was held last week. We are told that the Convention was boycotted by the Liberal and National Country Party Opposition and Liberal and National Country Party Premiers because local government was on the agenda. Yet, the Opposition has the effrontery to indicate to the Australian people that it is concerned for local government. It has brought out a proposed new scheme of tax reimbursement or tax collection which would make special provision for local government. 
The basis of the Opposition's charges of centralism is well worth looking at. The  Chairman  of the Grants Commission, in a paper delivered to the Town Clerks' Society of New South Wales on 22 July 1974, on the subject of federalism said: 
The question of centralism is, of course, open to as much criticism in a State as in the total Australian framework. The dissatisfaction which residents of Perth express about centralised controls from Canberra find a precise parallel in Townsville or Cairns about the administration of Queensland affairs in Brisbane; residents of Broken Hill, Wentworth and the Far North Coast of New South Wales manifest similar resentment about the matters which have to be sent to Sydney for decision. And it is not uncommon to hear, in country areas of this State, the complaint that New South Wales stands for Newcastle-Sydney- Wollongong the areas where the political, administrative, commercial and industrial power of the State is centralised. 
I would very much reinforce that view in respect of the Newcastle area. The people of the Newcastle area are convinced that the greatest bureaucracy in this nation exists in the State bureaucracy centred in Sydney. The great thing that the Grants Commission has done through its operations in respect of local government is that it has provided the framework for the development of regionalism within Australia. I think that anyone who looks at the number of local government units in Australia- almost 900 unitswould concede that regionalism has to be the answer; that regionalism is the only answer by which we can attain a more efficient development and operation of local government units, that it is the only way in which we can get a more efficient use of ratepayers' dollars as well as taxpayers 'dollars. 
Firstly, regionalism can operate as an inducement to local governing areas to forget their parochial prejudices. Our colleagues opposite might take note of that in respect of their State parochialism. At the same time local goverment can engage in some common projects which may eventually lead to amalgamation of existing smaller areas into viable economic units of adequate size and population. Secondly, it can redress some of the inconveniences which stem from the rigidity of State boundaries which are really boundaries of chance when we look back to the time of Federation. Thirdly, it can be an aid to decentralisation by the establishment of facilities in areas to which industrial and commercial activities might be attracted. Fourthly, it can redress some of the inequalities which exist under present local government administrations, often as an accidental consequence of factors which are only of historical significance. So the activities of the Grants Commission in respect of regionalism in particular are to be applauded. The Grants Commission has provided that mechanism for local government units to look beyond the narrow horizons of a council's area, to look at their problems on a broader approach, to look at their fund raising capacities on a broader approach. Whilst the suggestion has been made by some that the States' grants commissions ought to be undertaking that task, and naturally one would expect that coming from a State government, there are only 3 State grants commissions operative anyway. I can well recall that when the New South Wales Grants Commission was instituted not so many years ago the amount of funds which it made available to local government units in New South Wales was identical to the amount that the local government units would have been paid by the State government in the form of rates on the properties which it occupied in the various local government areas. 
The Grants Commission remains still the body best qualified in Australia to undertake an assessment of the relative needs of local governing bodies. It does this now. The second report of the Grants Commission which was submitted a matter of weeks ago points out that the Commission assesses needs on a national basis. So we can get a collection of information and the establishment of standards. We can get an establishment of responsibilities right across the breadth of Australia and an analysis of the efficiency of the various local government units. The Grants Commission has been the greatest financial break-through that local government has had since its birth. Local government has always been a captive of State government. 
A few days ago the Liberal and National Country Parties announced their proposition, as I mentioned earlier, in respect of the handing back of taxing powers to the States. In my view this would be the most retrograde step that has ever been put forward since 1901. The Aus.tralian people ought to be told simply and very clearly that such a proposition would mean one thing which can be described in 2 words, namely, double tax. It would be no more or no less than a levying or reintroduction of double taxation. As much as our opponents might try to disguise and conceal the purpose behind their proposition, they cannot avoid the fact that they are really talking about a system of double tax. If Federal tax is to be reduced as part of a national economic policy, understandably State governments of the opposite political colour would increase their take of tax and would again use the same old argument that the Federal government could have reduced its tax more. But what would be the impact on local government? That is the very important area with which I am concerned. Under the policies that have been put forward the proposition is extremely vague, and it would have to be vague because the Opposition cannot be specific; it does not know what it wants and it knows that really it is impossible to be specific in respect of the local government area of this scheme. It is quite ridiculous to suggest that a per capita return to local government units of income tax would be a feasible proposition. The problems faced by local government are not related to population. By coincidence they could be, on occasions, but generally they are problems related to the size of boundaries and to the disabilities within areas. The problems relate also to the area of the local government unit, the spread or sparsity of population and to the income content of ratepayers. All of these things have nothing to do with a per capita arrangement. 
For a government to give a per capita return to local government units would involve not only the difficulties I have mentioned a few moments ago but also the keeping of an address book showing when a person moved from one local government area to another. The rate of movement in federal electorates during a period of 12 months is 15 per cent. I do not know how to relate that to local government areas, but the rate of movement would be considerably higher than 15 per cent. As I say, a person would need to keep an address book and submit his movements throughout the year. This would then be related to some form of per capita tax. In short, the concept of per capita tax and the concept of federalState or double tax, as I outlined, would be absolutely disastrous for local government. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Manufacturing Industry let me refer to the tariff structures. The Government is proceeding with tariff review but is anxious that the process of change be at a manageable rate. It is trying to avoid disruption from excessive imports. It is true that tariff reductions frequently can result in hardships for the individuals concerned. What was the record of the previous Liberal-Country Party administration? Its record is blank. Its members had no concern for the disruption they caused to industry with their economic policies. This 
Government, for the first time in Australia instituted a structural adjustment program to facilitate desirable economic change and to avoid undue hardship for the individuals concernedthe workers and businessmen. At the same time expenditure on this program in 1974-75 was $5.3m. If honourable members opposite want to increase the expenditure let them say so. Incidentally, $4.7m of that expenditure was made in non-metropolitan areas under the special assistance for non-metropolitan areas scheme. 
I must congratulate the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  on his new found cause of small business. He should really hang his head in shame when he comes into this chamber and advocates some sort of interest in small business. 
-I am glad the honourable member makes that comment. All the Country Party ever did was talk about this matter. In 1968 the Leader of the Country Party and the Minister for Trade and Industry appointed the Wiltshire committee to inquire into the needs of small business. It took the Committee 3 years to look at small business. Exactly 3 years later, in June 1971, the report was passed to the Minister. But what did members of the Country Party do with it? They sat on it; they thought it was an egg that might hatch. They sat on that report until they went out of government. The report was subsequently tabled by this Government in April 1973. That is how much members of the Country Party really care about small business. They have no interest in small business. They think a few votes are to be gained by looking at it now and advocating its cause, but when they had the opportunity, and when the Country Party leader,  Sir John  McEwen, a responsible Minister, appointed the Committee they did not have sufficient faith in the Committee 's report to bring it into this chamber and table it. That is how much they care about small business. They are phoneys. 
It is true that for small business people life is difficult and hard. One could not pay them for the hours they put into their business at the same rate as they would be paid if they worked in industry. They probably would have more experience of hard work, difficulty and worry than anybody who is employed in industry. But members of the Opposition were not concerned about that. They made noises and they are making noises now. The facts are that the nation has about 300 000 small firms and more than 250 000 business enterprises involved in manufacturing, wholesaling and retailing alone. Small business forms a large proportion of industries sectors such as manufacturing- 92 per centwholesaling and retailing- 97 per cent- and real estate- 93 per cent. According to statistics for the 1970-71 tax year 13 per cent of partnerships which put in returns- I would like members of the Country Party to listen; a Labor government was not in office- showed a loss while more than 80 per cent showed a profit of less than $5,000. That shows how much honourable members opposite thought about small business. I repeat: 80 per cent of small businesses showed a profit of less than $5,000. 
The greatest difficulty that small businesses are having at the moment in relation to liquidity has not occurred as a result of the company tax rate but as a result of the impact on their liquidityof an increase in payroll tax from 2Vi per cent to 5 per cent, an increase in workers' compensation premiums of 50 per cent in recent months, and the setting aside of the exemption under land tax in New South Wales. Those 3 headings have had a very great impact. From talking with small business people in New South Wales one will find that those 3 factors are affecting liquidity far more than any others. After all a company does not have to pay company tax unless it makes a profit, but it has to pay land tax, payroll tax and workers compensation premiums whether or not it makes a profit. The company tax comes later. If honourable members opposite want to show some concern for small business, have a genuine look at its problems and talk to the Liberal or Country Party Premiers of New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia and Victoria. They are the people responsible for the liquidity problems of small businesses, not this Government. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  mentioned earlier that there ought to be rent control on commercial premises. There was rent conto on commercial premises; it was put there by a Labor government. It was kept there by successive Labor governments in New South Wales. But who removed it, despite the mass protests of small business people in New South Wales? It was not a Labor government. It was  Sir Robert  Askin, a Liberal Premier of New South Wales. Honourable members should look at the statistics of bankruptcies and company liquidations. I draw attention to the fact that it is doubtful if bankruptcy statistics can provide a reliable indication of economic conditions since the most frequent cause of bankruptcy is lack of business ability, training and experience. The next most frequent cause is insufficient working capital. The effects of economic conditions rank third. If honourable members opposite had set up a small business bureau in 1971, after the report was made, those first 2 problems would have had assistance from the Federal government. But members opposite did not even want to table the report. When one looks at the company liquidation figures in New South Wales there is a surprising lack of information on company liquidations. New South Wales is the only State to publish figures on liquidations and these give no information on the size of the firms, such as assets or the numbers employed. The figures quoted in New South Wales are of company liquidations and not of company failures. 
There is quite a difference between company liquidations and company failures. Great care is needed in interpreting the figures. A minor change in taxing regulations, for example, can cause many companies to be liquidated and recreated with different articles. I am sure members of the Liberal Party would know something about that. This is clearly an administrative phenomenon with no relevance to the state of the economy. One cannot refer only to bankruptcy statistics without analysing the content and the reasons for bankruptcy, such as the numbers employed, the assets and so on. The obvious gap in information on company failures can only be filled by organising a co-ordinated collection of statistics from each State. Each State may take its own independent statistics, and there is no uniformity amongst them. 
It is absloute hypocrisy on the part of members of the Opposition to have a new-found cause, that of small business. They did most to destroy small business. As I said earlier, the problems of small business now should have been looked at several years ago, not just now. Look at the food retailing sector of the nation. Sales went from $l,600m in 1956-57 to $3,273m in 1968-69. In 1956-57 there were 138 500 outlets, and under successive Liberal-Country Party administrations that number declined to 57 000 outlets in a period of about 12 years. That shows how much honourable members opposite were concerned. They did not worry about bait selling. They did not worry about the discrimination in pricing that was going on. They just were not concerned about small business. They think there is a vote in it now. 
Look at the share of the market enjoyed by small business. The era of the unaffiliated retailer passed away under Liberal-Country Party administrations. Its market share in 1971-72 was down to 4 per cent, compared with 40 per cent in the mid-1950s. In 1972 the chain stores had an estimated 60 per cent of the national market, with identified groups holding 36 per cent and unaffiliated independents 4 per cent. The legislation that has helped small business more than anything else is the Trade Practices Act. What did honourable members opposite do with that? They opposed it at every move. At every possible stage they opposed it. They delayed it for 18 months. It provides now for the abolition of price discrimination against small businessmen, and that more than anything else is helping the small businessman today. At least today the small businessman can buy at the price at which Woolworths can buy. He does not have to go to a wholesaler where he is asked to pay a higher wholesale price than the price at which Woolworths, Coles or Myers market retail. If the industry associations had shown concern for small business- they are not concerned with small business; they have been derelict in their responsibility towards it- by fostering research and support facilities, then small business today would be stronger, more efficient and in a much better position to handle difficulties. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Innes)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The unprecedented rejection of Supply by the Senate last year was the most serious assault on our constitutional system of government since Federation and the full impact of that unprincipled act by the Liberal-Country parties has not been realised by most Australians. The impromptu sacking of a properly elected Labor government by a handful of political opportunists in the Senate was the first step in the deliberate campaign to destroy our Federal system by the Opposition. Spurious arguments attempting to justify the rejection of the Budget by the Senate are being promoted by the Murdoch Press and the Packer Press. The political instability that is being fostered in Australia by the actions of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  the man who is afraid to face up to a debate in this place, the man who dodges our Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in this national forum, the man who expresses his views only through Press handouts and not here in the national Parliament- is a tragedy for democracy in Australia. 
How many speeches has he made? Zero. He will not come into the chamber. Our present economic uncertainty is a result of the bushranger tactics being practised by the Opposition in the Senate, and the Leader of the Opposition in this place is afraid to speak in this chamber. Men of that calibre have been aptly described as political cowards. The people of Australia need to be told that the Leader of the Opposition is afraid to match himself against the Prime Minister in the national Parliament and chooses instead to hide behind an army of script writers and political press secretaries who prescribe his daily thoughts for him. One of his own backbenchers I thought very aptly described him recently as a man who has to be 'programmed' an excellent description with which I am sure anyone in the media who has interviewed the Leader of the Opposition would readily agree. 
-I want him to live; I do not want him to die. As that Opposition back bencher said, as long as he is asked something for which he has been programmed then he is all right but if he is asked something for which he has not been programmed then he is in trouble. But I suppose one should not be too critical of the mediocre performance of the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber after having heard yesterday of the profound statement in the letter he sent to wealthy companies seeking political funds for the Liberal Party: 'You cannot fatten your pigs on market day'. Who else but the wealthy squire from Wannon could have thought up that statement? 
Another man with a rural background has become renowned around the world for his thoughts-  Chairman  Mao, not  Chairman  Mai. Now the Opposition team is led by a man with a rural background. Possibly in the near future we can expect to see a local publication. I would expect it to have a red cover, probably printed in 6 languages and probably to be found in all railway stations, air terminals and hotel vestibules. In it would be inscribed the profound thoughts of  Chairman  Mai. Then we could look forward to a daily procession of  Chairman  Mai's thought for the day. The thought for today is: 'You cannot fatten your pigs on market day'. He claims that a Liberal-Country Party government would create stability. 
Yes, that is right, like the stability created in the Liberal Party, which is the only political party in Australian history to have had 4 leaders in 4 years. Four out of four is a pretty good batting average. The honourable member for Wannon, the present Leader of the Opposition, is the only Liberal leader ever to have destroyed two of the previous leaders of his Party. He has collected 2 scalps in 4 years- the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden).  The honourable member for Wannon knows very well that if he faces up to the Prime Minister in this national forum it will not be long before the Liberal Party has another new leader- before another leader collects  Chairman  Mai's scalp. It is not difficult to pick a short list but the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  would be at the top of it. 
The latest attack by the Leader of the Opposition on stable government and stable national economic management is the double tax policy he unveiled last week under the smokescreen of 'New Federalism '. It ought to be properly titled 'New Colonialism' because that is what it represents. If ever it was implemented it would set national economic management back 75 years, back to the colonial days. Under the proposals outlined by the Liberal Opposition each State would levy a surtax, that is, another tax on top of the present income tax which in some intricate, but as yet not clearly defined way, would be collected by the Australian Government. The effect of this, naturally, would be that individual States would have to levy varying rates of income tax because of population differences in the States. And again naturally the States with the smaller populations such as Tasmania, Western Australia, South Australia and Queensland would be greatly disadvantaged. Their progress would be hampered and people in those smaller States of Tasmania, South Australia, Western Australia and Queensland would have to pay a much higher rate of State income tax than people in the more populous States of New South Wales and Victoria. People who moved interstate in the process of earning their income would be required to keep records of how much they earned in each State for tax purposes. What a ridiculous proposition from an Opposition that makes claim to efficiency. 
The Opposition tax proposals appear to have been modelled on the Canadian Federal Provincial tax system. Heaven forbid that a system like that is ever introduced in Australia. In Canada provincial income taxes vary considerably, by up to as much as 26 per cent. In that kind of situation in Australia people would move from States with higher income taxes to States with lower income taxes to minimise their tax liabilities. A proposal of this kind would have a chaotic effect on the present centralised and efficient company tax arrangements. This comes from an Opposition which is supposed to be the champion of private enterprise. What would happen if as part of national economic management federal income tax was reduced? There is absolutely no doubt that State governments would increase their rate of income tax to take up the gap vacated by federal income tax. 
The economic chaos that the Opposition tax proposals would create and the disadvantage that would be done to South Australia, Tasmania, Western Australia and Queensland was what led those States to reject the proposals of Prime Minister Menzies who offered to return income tax powers to the States many years ago. Since the introduction of uniform income tax all successive federal governments, Liberal or Labor, have seen fit to continue it as being the best way to manage the financial affairs of our nation- as a federation- as one Australia, as one country, not as 6 colonies each going its own way. What is of paramount importance is thai if Australia is to continue to develop as a federation, with the best interests of the whole nation as the objective, there has to be a uniform taxation collected by the Australian Government. 
In the words of the right honourable member for Higgins- a former Prime Minister of Australia and a gallant Australian- I quote from the  Age  of 1 5 September 1 975: 
What matters is that there can be only one economic manager in a country and any attempt to bring other managers into the system is doomed to dismal failure . . . 
He properly described the Opposition proposals as a threat to the uniform taxation system. To that I would add: This Government sees Australia as one nation, one country, one people. The Opposition seeks to divide, dismantle and disintegrate our system of government, to undermine and destroy our federation, our nation. 
The Opposition's tax proposals would mean double tax for all Australians. 
In the few minutes left to me I want to return to the subject I raised on 2 September. This was also mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  last evening. It relates to a campaign of coercion in the community and fear and intimidation by the Opposition. We are a lucky country compared with other countries but if the coercion and intimidation of people by the establishment such as is occurring in the insurance industry todayencouraged by the Opposition- and if interest groups in the community and migrant groups are whipped up into a frenzy on the basis or preWorld War II beliefs on the other side of the world- beliefs not relevant to Australia- if intolerance, greed and disregard for the less endowed and the less fortunate are to be encouraged as they are being encouraged by the Opposition, there can be only one result and that is disintegration of our system and ultimately violence. Violence is the last thing this Government wants, it is the last thing that the Australian people want and it is the last thing that the members of the Australia Labor Party want, but if that ultimately occurs it will properly be seen to be the result of the actions of the present LiberalCountry Party Opposition in this chamber and in the Senate and it will be on their heads to carry the burden and the guilt of having divided a once proud nation. 
-The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  handles the truth like he would handle a handful of bulldust. He was a Minister in a government which had a priority of spending thousands of millions of dollars on the murder of South Vietnamese women and children and young Australians and which could not provide a few hundred million dollars for beef road schemes. I think it is absolute effrontery for him 3 or 4 years later to be talking about beef road priorities. 
The honourable member mentioned that no new homes had been built in Darwin, but he conveniently ignored - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Kennedy will restrain himself and watch the rather colourful manner in which he sometimes interjects. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, he is a very colourful character in the chamber. Many allusions are made about his activities. I am deliberately trying to address my remarks to the chamber in the least provocative manner so as not to disturb him. He mentioned that no new homes had been built in Darwin but he again conveniently ignored the fact that 4000 homes have been restored and are now being inhabited. He also ignored the facts that 5000 caravans have been transferred to Darwin and are now in use. He mentioned the  Patris,  but not in a pleasant or a congratulatory kind of way. He did not mention the 400 demountable homes that have also been moved to Darwin and are now set up in use. I think he is quite unfair and certainly some effort is called for on his part to try to bring himself to the truth of the matter. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Northern Australia 1 want to refer specifically to the activities of the Department in association with the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund and the reports that have been tabled by the Minister for Northern Australia  (Dr Patterson)  in the past few months in this chamber. Honourable members will recall the public disquiet following the tragedy of cyclone Tracy over the proliferation of funds collecting donations ostensibly for the victims of the disaster and about the method of disbursement of moneys, a matter referred to by the fund in its reports for April and May 1 975. 1 will come back to that later. Australians have always been known for their generosity in assisting those in need when disasters such as cyclones, floods, fire and drought strike. Naturally that same generosity was displayed by millions of Australians in the wake of cyclone Tracy last December. However, I believe that large sums of money that were collected have not been accounted for yet. Further, I believe that when the public subscribed to radio appeals and telethons they did so in the clear belief that all of the moneys collected in the telethons would go to the charity or organisations for which the appeal was being conducted. 
I am quite certain from talking to members of the public that they were under the impression that television and radio stations donated their services to the appeals free of charge. There is no doubt that radio and television stations derive considerable goodwill from the conduct of telethons. The public sees them as carrying out a much needed public service. I think this also induces members of the public to give more readily. They feel they are joining in a massive community effort to help those who are less privileged and those who are in difficulty. In February this year I placed on notice question No. 1949 to the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  seeking information on the services provided by the Postmaster-General's Department for telethons. The answer appeared in  Hansard  at page 1574 on 10 April. Also in February I placed on notice a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. After repeated representations to the Minister I finally received an answer which appeared in  Hansard  of 2 June. Comparisons of those answers showed wide discrepancies in the amounts promised, the amounts collected and the amounts actually paid to the appeals concerned. When I received the answer from the Minister for the Media I issued a Press release calling on the Minister for the Media to conduct an inquiry into the conduct of telethons. 
I was particularly concerned with appeals conducted for victims of cyclone Tracy. The strange thing that happened while I was seeking information on the expenses deducted from telethon collections was that suddenly the Trust Fund received funds that had been collected several months previously but had not been remitted to the Trust Fund. Where the funds had been held and why they had not been remitted previously I have been unable to ascertain. An examination of the answer from the Minister for the Media gives cause for serious concern, in my view, and there should be a public inquiry, preferably by a parliamentary committee, into the conduct of telethons and the disbursement of funds collected. After all, the public gave that money for the victims of cyclone Tracy and for other appeals. The public is entitled to know where it went and for what it was used. 
I have learnt since I placed my question on notice that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board does not have any real power to order an inquiry. For that reason I feel that the appropriate body would be a parliamentary committee. The public gave those donations in good faith and is entitled to know what happens to money which it donates. Some of the variations in the amounts promised as compared with the amounts collected are shown on the page of  Hansard  which I mentioned previously. If one looks at radio 2KM in Kempsey one sees that 87.6 per cent of funds promised were collected. Generally radio stations do not make any deductions for the conduct of appeals, but from talking to members of the public it is quite obvious that late in the evening and in the early hours of the morning it is considered quite a convenient practice to ring up a radio station or a television station when an appeal is being conducted to get one's name on television. All that is needed is a telephone call. There is no check that the money is actually subscribed.  Mrs A  or  Mrs B  may have her name mentioned on a television program as promising a donation of X dollars, and no one follows that through. I think that ought to be checked out. 
Radio station 4GR in Toowoomba in a Mother's Day appeal collected 81.3 per cent of what was promised. If we look at TCN9 in Sydney, $16,661 was deducted from the collections of the 1974 appeal for crippled children and only 79.9 per cent of the funds promised were collected. In the Melbourne University deafness appeal for 1974 which was conducted on ATV0 61.22 per cent of the funds promised were collected. If we move to NWS9 we find that that station in an appeal for the Minda Home Incorporated and St John Council for South Australia deducted the sum of $27,082 for operating the appeal. We can go further and look at NBN3 in my own city. In an appeal for the Newcastle Sheltered Workshops 95 per cent of funds promised were collected and deductions amounted to $3,750. In the TCN9 Darwin Relief Appeal, out of $3,077,832 funds collected, which was 97.3 per cent of funds promised, $35,644 was deducted. 
At the same time not all the stations which conducted appeals provided information in response to the question which I had placed on notice because they are not required to do so. All the Minister could do was to rely on the goodwill of the stations concerned. Channel 3 in Newcastle conducted an appeal for the victims of Cyclone Tracy on New Year's Eve. There is no record of that appeal in the answer. I think these matters ought to be looked at and ought to be brought to the notice of the public. Additionally, there were wide variations in the amounts deductied by the stations concerned. In some cases no deductions were made. In other cases the deductions appear to be equivalent to the Post Office charge which was made. In other cases there appears to be no clear reason for the amounts deducted. Finally, some of the appeals conducted for Darwin did not show at all in the answer that was given. The Minister replied to my request for an inquiry by letter on 2 1 August. I will read it to the House. He referred to my letter and to my media releases. He said: 
I have discussed the matter you raised with the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board,  Mr Wright. Mr Wright  has informed me that the question of telethons and appeals on radio and television has been taken up with the Federation of Australian Commercial Broadcasters and the Federation of Commercial Television Stations. When the required information is available from the 2 Federations I will write to you again. 
That was 7 months after I placed the question on notice and now, almost 8 months after I placed the question on notice, we are still waiting for information. The problem is that under the Broadcasting Act the Government has no power to demand the information which I sought. It is dependent on the goodwill of the stations. This is a serious deficiency in the power of the Broadcasting Control Board. Only a parliamentary inquiry will clear the air on what happened to the money which was collected for the victims of cyclone Tracy. Who sat on it for months? Why were the amounts deducted from the funds collected? What happened to the amounts collected? Where is the balance of the funds which were collected? 
I received no answer at all to this question: Can stations nominate the amounts to be paid to specific individuals or specific groups? I have absolutely no doubt at all that an inquiry would show that at least one station attempted to do exactly that, to specify how much ought to be given to a particular group. I refer honourable members to pages 1 and 2 of the March-April report of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust fund. I ask honourable members to bear in mind the comments of the Fund, particularly on page 2, in relation to its difficulty in trying to make an equitable and fair distribution of funds collected when many funds were operating, when many funds were collecting money and when many funds, including private funds, were distributing money. It is sad to see from the AuditorGeneral's report that even with the assistance which was given some people had to duplicate and triplicate their applications for assistance. I think that is a very sad situation. I assume that it is a very small minority of the people involved. I hope that when the Auditor-General looks at that matter later we will have some more information on it. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many former members of the (a) Liberal, (b) National Country Party or (c) Democratic Labor Party were appointed to an office of profit by the Australian Government between 1949 and 2 December 1972. 
What were their names. 
What was the nature of the benefits and payments. 
What was the amount of payment and benefit received by each person. 
For how long did each of them hold the office which entitled them to the benefits and payments. 
What are the names of those who still hold office and are in receipt of benefits from the Australian Government. 
Of those who were members of the Parliament, on what date did each of them cease to be a member. 
Will the Prime Minister assure the House and the nation that the Australian Government will press ahead with its antiinflation program despite the serious damage being done to public confidence and our system of constitutional government by election uncertainty? Is it a fact that the war on inflation requires the united effort of employers, employees and governments at all levels both State and Federal? 

 -Mr Chairman, after listening to the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  I can only repeat the remark of my colleague, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  that it is incredible that a man who was a senior Minister in an earlier Government should put forward the thoughts that the honourable member has just expressed in this place. It is incredible that he should suggest that, because the cost of providing landlines and telephone charges to country newspapers has increased, that increase should not be passed on to the users of those services. What he does not say is that, in the main, the services in which he is interested are not those of the main provincial newspapers. I did not hear the honourable member mention the name of a major provincial newspaper. He spoke always of country newspapers. In many cases, they are giveaways, the over-the-fence newspapers, the free weeklies, the free sheets, which are really only propaganda sheets for the National Country Party. 
The honourable member for Gippsland seriously puts the proposition to this chamber and to the people of Australia that the taxpayer should subsidise his propaganda. Is that proposal any different from what he is accusing the Department of the Media of doing? This is the very thing of which he accuses the Minister for the Media. The only difference is that the honourable member for Gippsland wants to do this in a little more secretive and roundabout way. He has managed to get away with it for a long time secretively. It is becoming clear and it is proper that those involved should bear their share of the costs for the services provided by the taxpayer which they utilise. 
I think I should refer back to the editorial in the  Catholic Weekly  a few weeks ago. That editorial said: 
What is the alternative to the Whitlam Government- that same seedy bunch of incompetents that were rejected by the people in 1972 and 1974? 
I note that the honourable member for Gippsland smiles in agreement with me. I thank him for his agreement. 
He spoke about a police state. That is what he and his National Country Party colleagues would have in this country. The task that they are about in dismembering our federation can have one result only, that is, serious and irretrievable damage to our constitutional system and to our nation. The only alternative is something about which I read in an article on federalism some time ago. The view was expressed that the policy of the National Country Party towards federalism was really one seeking the creation of a series of farmers' republics. I think that puts the position very nicely. The result would be a series of farmers ' republics each going its own way. Is that not really what Opposition members are saying here at present? 
-The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  made little reference to the activities of the Department of Urban and Regional Development other than in a derogatory fashion. He mentioned that the estimates were of considerable magnitude. They need to be because of the long neglect of local government and the urban infrastructure that he mentioned during the long 23 years of LiberalCountry Party administration. The Government which he supported, under its scale of priorities, had millions of dollars to spend on killing innocent women and children and young Australians in a political war but it did not have any funds at all for national sewerage programs, for housing programs, for cities, for highways or for regional groupings. 
I think that is enough consideration to give to the comment of the honourable member. It is worth mentioning, though, that under its policy a Liberal-National Country party government would abolish the Department of Urban and Regional Development. So the very thing that he is now complaining has not enough funds in this Budget would be the program that the Party which he supports, if it ever came to office, would abolish. I do not know how he can mount a case in support of additional funds when the policy he supports would lead to the abolition of this Department, but no doubt while abolishing the Department his Party would restore the superphosphate bounty to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The $5,000 that he got could have been put to much better use than pasture improvement. 
The single most important responsibility that any government has is to plan. Proper planning with due regard to all human factors and environmental factors will result in sensible balanced development; efficient utilisation of our natural resources; gradual creation of a better life style; preservation of the desirable features of our natural environment; and the restoration and preservation of our national heritage. The initiative of the Australian Government in creating the Department of Urban and Regional Development and its associated units has provided the mechanisms for national planning for the future. The Department, on its formation, faced a tremendous backlog because of the dereliction of responsibility by successive Liberal-Country Party governments over a quarter of a century. 
In speaking in support of the estimates for this Department I want to concentrate on the assistance that has been given to local government and the growth of regionalism. In the Hunter region, which embraces the electorates of my colleagues the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  regionalism is developing strongly. Largely through its early recognition in the Hunter the concept of regions as geographical entities unified by physical, human and economic bonds is gaining wide acceptance in Australia as a workable basis for planning development and allocating resources according to priorities. It is at the regional level that problems determining national prosperity can be clearly identified and tackled. In the long term economic growth is dependent upon the integrated efforts of the regions and their ability to sustain productivity, recognise and exploit opportunities and attract investment. The pattern of human activities in the region has evolved from the need to utilise resources, to produce benefits and incomes and standards of Living. 
The hub of the Hunter region is the port of Newcastle, the second largest port in the nation. The economic output of the region is of major national significance and deserves to receive greater national recognition. Almost every type of primary, secondary and tertiary activity is represented in the region and constitute a major contribution to the Australian economy.  (Quorum formed)  I shall refrain from calling the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  who drew attention to the state of the Committee, a wop and a rat. 

 - Mr Chairman, I ask that that remark be withdrawn. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Has the Australian Government been advised that European based banks which provide financial  investment services to Arab investors have a vested interest in seeing that loans are not arranged from Arab nations outside those banking channels? Has his attention been drawn to discussions in Europe between the financial advisers of those banks and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition? 
-Will the Prime Minister inform the House what action the Government proposes to take in respect of the report tabled in the House recently of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament? 
-We have heard from the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  simply a droll repetition of his earlier remarks on 2 previous occasions. I think that the pertinent words in his contribution are to be found in this short sentence: 'What we want to get is the right result'. The addendum to that sentence should be 'for the Opposition'. That is the reason why Australia has probably the most outmoded and most complicated electoral laws of any democracy in the world. The system that we have is deliberately designed to make voting difficult for people who have sight difficulties or who have difficulty in filling out a large number of squares in consecutive order. Even members of the Opposition cannot do that at times. This is really a system designed to militate against an expression of choice by those people with lesser ability with numbers and with pen and paper. The Opposition seeks to continue that system for its own electoral advantage. 
It is a cynical attitude as the Minister for Housing and Construction says. It can be best described only as that. In his earlier remarks, the previous speaker said that the Opposition was against rigged electoral boundaries. The boundaries that Australia has at present are the electoral boundaries that the Opposition when in government rigged. The system that we have is the system that it rigged. It is designed to favour the Opposition Parties. The Opposition is really saying this: 'We are all in favour of democracy as long as we can control it'. This is the very same thing that colleagues of honourable members opposite are saying in another place at the moment. They are saying: 'We are all in favour of the people of Australia electing a government to the House of Representatives so long as it is a government of which we approve'. That is supposed to be guided democracy. That is reflected again in this legislation. 
If honourable members want an accurate determination of the effect of informal votes on a large number of candidates and of the difference that the optional preferential system will make, it can be found in the figures for the House of Representatives and the Senate in 1974. On an Australia-wide basis, the number of informal votes cast for the House of Representatives was 1.92 per cent of total votes cast. For the Senate, the informal rate of voting was 10.77 per cent. The position is even worse in New South Wales. The level of informal voting for the House of Representatives was 1.6 per cent in New South Wales. Informal votes for the Senate were 12.3 per cent of the total Senate vote. That is a difference of 10.71 per cent. This means that 10.71 per cent of those who voted in New South 
Wales in the Senate election last year were effectively disfranchised; they were prevented from expressing their choice because of the complicated method of voting. 
The Bill now before the House seeks to reform the electoral law of this nation so as to ensure a greater political equality for all Australians as individuals as well as for party candidates who aspire to participate in the parliamentary process. The Opposition makes much noise about its version of equality and its concept of the divine right to rule, but what this Bill and ensuring Bills are all about is the equality of political opportunity. The legislation seeks to provide that people who do want to participate in the parliamentary process have equal opportunity at the ballot box. What the Opposition ought to be doing is to support this legislation. This is what members of the Opposition would be doing if they were genuine in their expressions about equality at the ballot box and equality in legislative matters. 
As I said, this legislation seeks to enshrine in the statute book equality of political opportunities for all Australians. The complicated system that we have at present operates only to prevent Australians casting their choice and expressing their view on who ought to represent them. Optional preferential voting was referred to by the previous  speaker  as some type of stage 1 introduction of first past the post voting. That claim is completely untrue. I do not know whether the honourable member knows it to be untrue. In a first past the post system, the voter simply expresses a choice for one candidate possibly, as in the United Kingdom, by placing a cross against a candidate's name on the ballot paper. It is possible under that system for a candidate who obtains a minority of the votes- that is, 40 per cent of the total votes cast or even 35 per cent of those votes- to be elected. The legislation now before this House proposing an optional preferential system embodies a provision that requires that a successful candidate must have 50 per cent of the votes at the stage of counting when the result for each seat is declared. The successful candidate must have a majority of the formal votes cast at that stage of the counting. What really astounded me in what I heard from the other side of the House - 
-I know that the honourable member has invented a new National Country Party creation- the regressive barn dance. I pay the honourable member credit for it. I think that it is a very, very good thing that he has done for the National Country Party. It is something that he has never done before. 
I will come to the honourable member's point at a later stage. In the week before last the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  referred to the reduction in the number of polling booths in rural electorates and how by this so-called electoral reform the Government was depriving country people of the right to vote. The honourable member said that we should not try to contain expenditure or to limit the expenditure of public money. He claimed that we should provide polling booths, like public toilets, on every corner. He alleged that we were disfranchising people. But if we look at the high percentage of informal votes cast in country electorates, we find that the National Country Party, and the Opposition in general, are supporting a system which deprives far more country voters of an expression of choice for a candidate than that system of voting does in respect of city voters. Let us have a look at the figures in the electorate of Mallee in Victoria. In the last Senate election 13 per cent of voters there voted informally. In the electorate of Paterson in New South Wales, 15.6 per cent of voters cast informal votes. The percentage of informal votes in the electorate of Lyne in New South Wales was 16.1 per cent. I compare that level of informal voting with the number of informal votes cast in the electorate of Berowra, a city electorate, which was 7.3 per cent. More than twice as many country voters cast informal votes in the Senate election last year than were cast by city voters in the electorate of Berowra. 
Dealing with country informal voting again, in Calare, 14.1 per cent of total votes cast were informal. In Hume the figure was 14.8 per cent. Where are the members of the National Country Party who are the champions of the people living in country areas who want to express their choice and also to register their approval of candidates? Honourable members opposite subscribe to legislation that places those people in the highest category of informal voters. They are discriminating against country voters in favour of city voters. I am shocked and surprised that members of the National Country Party have not seen what they are doing. The situation can be understood if one looks at the membership of the National Country Party. The Opposition discriminates against country voters; yet the Opposition wants to argue against this electoral reform. 
There is a history of optional preferential voting in Australia. The paradox is that the Opposition when in Government supported the optional preferential voting system. In fact, it introduced this system for the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council elections. As a Government, it introduced that system for elections in Papua New Guinea. When in office in Tasmania it endorsed the optional preferential system known as the Hare-Clark system. 
Let me deal now with the interjection which came from my friend in 'cockies' corner' who asked about the optional preferential system and exhausted votes. In New South Wales, under the Liberal-Country Party Government, all local government elections are conducted on the optional preferential system. Voters are required to mark their ballot papers consecutively from the number ' 1' to a number which is equal to twice the number of vacancies plus one. Those Parties have been in office in New South Wales for 10 years. I find it hard to understand that honourable members opposite endorse that system of voting in New South Wales but oppose it when it is proposed for operation on a Federal basis. Clearly they must make up their minds. The truth is that honourable members opposite are opposed to this system of electoral reform because they think that it may bring in from the cold those people who are at present being disfranchised by the extremely complicated system that we have for elections. 
If we look at the history of the Opposition Parties, we find that in 23 years in office they made no effort whatsoever to introduce electoral reform with the exception of the introduction in 1 97 1 by the honourable member for Gwydir (  Mr Hunt)  of 26 amendments to the legislation, which were not proceeded with. Some of those matters which were the subject of amendment then are covered in legislation to be debated later today. 
The Opposition reacts hysterically to any suggestion of the introduction of optional preferential voting. I make the point again that the optional preferential system is not a first past the post system. It is totally different from the first past the post system. Looking at the history of Australia we find that the optional preferential system was the form of voting used at Senate elections in the period 1919 to 1931. It is the same as the system now used by New South Wales in local government elections. I draw the attention of the House to the remark made in 1919 by the honourable member for Brisbane,  Mr Finlayson,  when a debate on an election Bill was before the House. He stated: 
The purity of public life depends on the purity of the electoral machinery. It is unfortunate that the electoral law should be the plaything of party politics. 
It has been the plaything of party politics on the other side of the House for the past quarter of a century. The amendments which are proposed to enable people properly to express their choice ought to be carried unanimously by both sides of the House. I draw the attention of the House to the situation in 1970 when candidates stood for the National Socialist Party. People did not want to express a choice for those candidates, whether there were eight, nine, ten or twenty candidates, but because they did not put a number against those candidates those people were effectively disfranchised. If people do not want to put a number against a candidate under the system which honourable members opposite support, those people lose their right to have that vote recorded. I feel that the reforms are very reasonable. They deserve the support of both sides of the House. The public of Australia are certainly entitled to them. 
-At the outset I pay tribute to  Mr Frank  Hey of the Australian Electoral Office and his dedicated staff.  His  staff have to be dedicated to continue to work within the confines of what is the most complicated and intricate legislation in the world governing elections. I do not think the public really takes enough notice of the extent of work done by the staff of the Australian Electoral Office in providing facilities for 12 hours of voting on election day. I also pay particular tribute to the Divisional Returning Officer in my own electorate of Shortland and to his staff. I repeat that I do not think the public is aware of the very great effort those people make in trying- as the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  said- to facilitate voting and provide convenience to the public on election day. 
The honourable member for Curtin put the Opposition's regard for electoral reform in its proper perspective when he said that he could not understand why the Government is fiddling about with these proposals. Obviously the Opposition regards very necessary and essential electoral reform as fiddling about. As he said, this is the third time these proposals have been introduced. It is the third time because of the Opposition 's attitude towards electoral reform. The present difficulties result from the administration of legislation that members of the Opposition developed over a quarter of a century and they have ensured, for the past  2 1/2  years, that it remains the same. The interesting thing, as the honourable member conveniently neglected to mention, is that the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  when Minister for the Interior in 1971, recognised that many areas within the Act needed reform but he allowed to lapse the 26 amendments which were comprised in a Bill introduced into this chamber in 1971. So, the Opposition's attitude to electoral reform is one of deliberate neglect. 
These 6 Bills are about equality of opportunity at the ballot box- not only equality of opportunity for the voters but also equality of opportunity for candidates. The legislation is concerned with ensuring that all Australian electors have access to the ballot box and that all Australians, with the proper qualifications, have an opportunity under the same conditions and the same entitlements as anybody else to enter this place or the Senate. One can see from looking at this Bill that the proposals are reasonable and needed. The imperfections in the existing electoral law are not of this Government's making. We have tried, and this is the third occasion, to remove them. We have tried to help people to vote. We have tried to give them a better and simpler access to voting. Above all we want to ensure that their vote is formal. It is a hypocritical exercise to talk about people voting when the Opposition supports a method of voting that ensures that a large percentage of votes, particularly country votes, are rendered informal. It is absolute hypocrisy on the part of the Opposition. 
I understand the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is probably going to follow me in this debate and will talk, I imagine, on electoral booths. It is nonsense to talk about the number of electoral booths if, when the people cast their votes, the votes are then rendered informal by a complicated system of numbering. As I pointed out yesterday on an earlier Bill in this series, the rate of informal Senate voting in country electorates is far higher than in city electorates. I have only to turn to the electorate of Wimmera in Victoria- my friend the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  is not here at the moment- to find that the informal vote in the Senate election last year was 12.1 per cent. I ask honourable members to compare that with an informal vote of 7.9 per cent in Kooyong. The informal vote in the electorate of Bruce was 6.5 per cent as compared with the electorate of Mallee which had an informal vote of 13 per cent. In the electorate of Wakefield the informal vote was 10.5 per cent; it was 9.2 per cent in Kingston and in Angas 11.9 per cent. It is just mouthing words to come into the chamber and to try to put across a case for giving people an entitlement to vote if something is not done about ensuring that the votes that are cast are formal votes. 
Let me look at the Bill itself. As mentioned by the honourable member for Curtin, clause 5 provides an opportunity for those people who are in a prison to make application for a postal vote. At the same time it provides for the closing of applications for postal votes at 6 p.m. on the Thursday. There is a very necessary reason for that. In many instances no home deliveries of mail are made on Saturday mornings. Even under the existing legislation there is no provision for people, if an application is received on Friday night, to post it back. If applications are received by the deadline on the Thursday evening they can be put in the mail that evening and be delivered to voters on the Friday. Provision is made for those votes to get back to the booth. Provision still exists for personal applications to be lodged in the office of the divisional returning officer by Friday at 6 p.m. There is still the opportunity for the elector to have his vote delivered to the booth or to the office on the Saturday. 
Clause 7 deals with the inspection of postal vote rolls by persons. To me this is a very dubious operation. It opens the door for practices that ought not to be followed. People ought not to be badgered or canvassed. We have heard speakers on both sides of the chamber refer to this over the past  Vh  years. Even the existing law specifically prohibits the practice, but it still goes on. Members and candidates have prepared lists of past postal voters. They have prepared lists and prepared application forms and these sit in their offices. As the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly)  said in this chamber a few weeks ago he went into an office in Brisbane and noted several thousand postal vote application forms already completed and waiting to be posted out. I do not know what office, but the Minister made reference to it in an earlier debate. 
The proposition in clause 8 that postal ballot papers be returned to the relevant divisional returning office I think is most reasonable. I do not think it is fair or responsible for anybody to continue to support a system whereby a nation can wait 6 weeks and not know the result of an election. It was almost 6 weeks before the result of the double dissolution last year was known. Members opposite may have a vested interest in perpetuating that kind of operation but it is not in the national interest. A country cannot be governed and cannot plan or develop if it has to wait 6 weeks for a result after an election. If postal vote applications have to be returned to the divisional returning officer by the close of the poll the Electoral Office is given an opportunity to produce a much quicker result but it also gives equality of opportunity for all voters in Australia. 
Let us look not at those people who are not able to go along to vote. Let us look at those people who do not wish to attend polling booths. Why should people who do not wish to go along to vote have a longer period to vote than people who attend polling booths to vote? The fact is that when an election is announced the nation is on notice that there is to be an election several weeks later. I do not accept that some people would not know, once an election has been announced, that an election is to be held. It receives the prime news coverage of the time. Coverage of an election is constant. 
It is reasonable to expect that, once an election is called, everybody within the nation who is entitled to vote has the same opportunity to vote. To give postal voters considerably longer to vote than is provided to people who attend polling booths is to me to give an advantage to postal voters who sometimes are people who do not wish to attend polling booths. I distinguish between those postal voters who do not wish to attend the polling booth and those who are unable to attend the polling booth. 
To say that people are being deprived of a vote by not being able to get postal vote applications returned in time is to put forward an argument that does not stand up to examination. Let us consider the time intervals involved. Immediately an election is announced an application form for a postal vote can be obtained. It is admitted that that application will not be answered until the writs are out. The ballot paper cannot be returned until the nominations have closed. But if we examine the history of previous elections, we find that ample time is provided for postal voting. 
The proposition that the present proposal deprives people of an opportunity to vote is a spurious one. Let us look at the law as it now stands. Section 96 of the Electoral Act deals specifically with scrutiny by a divisional returning officer of postal votes, the return of postal votes and the opening of them. Section 96 provides:  . . . the Divisional Returning Officer . . . (b) if satisfied that the signature on the certificate is that of the elector who signed the application for the certificate and that the signature purports to be witnessed by an authorised witness, and that the vote contained in the envelope was recorded prior to the close of the poll . . .  and so on. There is no evidence at all on which a divisional returning officer can determine when a postal vote was cast. If the postal vote envelope that is eventually returned to him, that is delivered to him, carries a postmark in some cases 2 days or 3 days after the date on which the election was held, there is no way that the divisional returning officer can properly determine when that vote was cast. The Act provides:  . . . that the vote contained in the envelope was recorded prior to the close of the poll . . . 
That is what the Act prescribes. There is no clear cut way that the divisional returning officer can determine that fact. 
Up to some 18 years ago the situation used to be that the divisional returning officer was required to rule as invalid any postal vote envelopes that carried a postmark later than the date on which the election was held. I think that that rule ought still to prevail. Previous governmentsthe Liberal-Country Party governments of the time- changed that requirement to the provision that I have just quoted which says that the divisional returning officer has simply to satisfy himself that the vote was cast prior to the close of the poll. 
Speaking to divisional returning officers, one finds that they have differing opinions as to what constitutes evidence that a vote was cast prior to the closing of a poll. My friend, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  sits opposite. I was a scrutineer with respect to votes cast in his electorate at the last 2 elections. 
-You are here because of the looseness - 
-. . . of the Electoral Act which you and your colleagues have preserved and seek still to preserve. You do not want a fair go for voters or candidates. I scrutineered at the last 2 elections, and a large number of - 
I am not reflecting on you as a member. I am reflecting on the system. I hope you can draw the distinction. I am not reflecting on you. I am drawing attention to my criticism of the system. 
I did not mean it in a personal way with respect to you. I did not mean it to be taken that way. Under the system which operated in 1974 and which still continues at present, 1302 postal votes were cast in the electorate of Paterson. Of those votes, 61 per cent went to the successful candidate. The unsuccessful candidate received 36 per cent of those postal votes. I compare that with the 49 per cent cast for each of the candidates by voters at polling booths in that electorate. The interesting point is this: As scrutineers, we had to challenge a considerable number of postal votes that carried postmarks dated several days after the date on which the election was held. 
There is no way in which the date when those votes were cast can be determined. I do not believe that all of those votes were cast prior to 8 p.m. on 18 May 1974. A number of those votes were challenged. A number of them were challenged because of the signatures that appeared as witnesses on the envelopes. It was clear in a number of cases that the person who had witnessed the postal vote application and the envelope was also the person who had signed as the elector. We asked that a number of such postal votes be passed on to the Electoral Officer for further investigation. 
Looking at the result in the Paterson division in 1974, we find that the majority was 275 votes. If we examine the difference between the percentages of votes cast for each candidate at polling booths and the percentages of votes cast for each candidate through the postal voting system, we find that the margin is sufficient to represent the difference between winning and losing that seat. The net margin was 275 votes. So 53 500 people in the electorate of Paterson voted for one candidate or another and, in a final majority of 275 votes, 140 people by the postal voting method selected the successful candidate. That is no reflection on the honourable member for Patterson. I make that fact quite clear. It is a reflection on the system. 
That system itself has been abused. When we look at the results in the 1972 election, we find that a similar situation emerges with respect to that abuse, as revealed by a comparison of the percentages of polling booth votes and postal votes. When we have a system that invites abuse, we come to a proposition such as the one put forward earlier by a spokesman for the Opposition that we ought now to make it easier for people who want to utilise the lurks and perks of the postal voting system and reduce expenditure on election campaigns for the Opposition by providing that the taxpayer finance the preparation of a roll showing those people who vote by post. The system itself is already evil. It is abused. But, on top of that, honourable members opposite want the taxpayer to make the abuse easier still. The system does not provide a fair opportunity for voters. It does not provide a fair opportunity for candidates. Irrespective of who the successful candidates are they ought to have the same opportunity when they go to the ballot box having put their respective policies. 
What we have is a system which has been supported for a quarter of a century by the Opposition Parties. Some of the amendments contained in this legislation are amendments that were in the legislation introduced in 1971 but which the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who was then the Minister in charge of these matters, did not seek to pursue in this chamber. The Opposition has not told us why it did not carry through with those proposals. The Opposition will not tell us that, as it knows that the present situation ensures that in country electorates a large proportion of voters cast informal votes for Senate elections. 
Honourable members opposite have these people put through the sham of voting. They are dragged along to polling booths or make application for postal votes, worrying about penalties for failing to vote, and cast their votes. All the time, honourable members opposite know full well in their own minds that they are wholeheartedly supporting a method of vote counting that ensures that the informal rate in votes cast by country electors is almost twice the rate of informal votes lodged by city electors. The Opposition Parties deserve to be condemned for this. Members of the Opposition ought to be going back to their country electorates promoting and supporting electoral reform that simplifies electoral legislation, that simplifies the expression of choice by people and that gives Australians a fair go at the ballot box and a fair go as candidates. 
-This evening I wish to draw to the attention of the Parliament the methods used to conduct polls by the firm of The Roy Morgan Research Centre Pty Ltd. The results of these polls are published nationwide and purport to be the results of a representative secret poll of citizens. But the polls are not secret. Under the method of interviewing, the name and address of the interviewee is recorded by the interviewer. Then the ballot paper is identified later and correlated with answers given to other questions on occupation, religion, nationality, country of origin etc and economic class. The conduct of the political poll is, in my view, a flagrant breach of privacy by the firm and needs to be brought to public notice. Recently, correspondence instructions to interviewers were brought to my attention by a responsible citizen who having applied for a position as an interviewer, was affronted by the methods that were proposed to be used. I read from the second paragraph of the letter that the person received. It states: 
We interview people in their homes outside of normal working hours, usually on Saturday morning. Every weekend 120of our 480 interviewers each asks 10 different people an interesting range of questions, like those in the attachment. Please refer to it as you read each paragraph of this letter. 
I shall read the concluding paragraph. It states: 
On receipt of your completed practice form, we will tell you how we interview one person per dwelling, at adjoining dwellings in specified streets. 
Question 19j on page 7 of the instruction sheets reads: 
And may I have your name please? 
In brackets it adds: 
Definitely not for a salesman to call, but only to show its a genuine interview. 
The interviewer prints the name of the person, the postal address and the postcode. Question 19n reads: 
I ask the honourable member to listen. Be patient. It further states: 
When you arrive home, open the box carefully and tape or paste the ballot to the ' INTRODUCTION ' at the top left of Page 1 of the form with its letter printed at the top left of Page 1. Don't use pins. Circle one of the 10 numbers in the second table below 3b. 
Please keep the box on your clip board or in some other safe place. 
Under the heading ' Reluctant ' it states: 
If a person is reluctant on Q3 show (in a sheet of finding) how we publish opinions of ALP voters and L-CP voters separately. Also point out that acceptance of our findings on public questions depends on our ability to predict elections and referendums accurately. (We have published predictions for every Federal election and referendum since 1943, usually accurately. 
Question 3a reads: 
Now, we'd like your opinion on Australian politics. To make sure we get your views accurately, here 's a Gallup Poll ballot. 
The interviewer hands the ballot paper to his interviewee saying: 
If a Federal election were being held today, which party would receive your FIRST preference (if you had a vote)? 
Then the interviewer hands over a pen and a box and says: 
Would you please make a cross in the square beside the Party you'd give your first preference at a Federal election? 
If the interviewee is undecided or refuses to answer, the inteviewer asks: 
Well, would you please make a cross beside the Pany you're leaning toward at present? 
Then the instructions go on: 
-In the one minute remaining let me say that I was interested to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  interject: 'I have got some new documents'. When I was overseas recently I found it very hard to answer a question that was posed to me. The question was: Why is money being offered for information on overseas loans by the Opposition in Australia? I did not know the answer. I still do not know the answer. But I think that the people are entitled to know. The community is concerned about the role of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in respect of overseas loans. The sordid role he has played and the principals for whom he acts are yet to be revealed. Who are the overseas bankers with whom he is liasing? What is their interest? What is the purpose of his visits with them?  (Quorum formed) 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lynch's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-Because of the actions of the Opposition, these are sad days for the Australian nation. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Shortland be not further heard. 
I support the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1975. Its purpose is to authorise the payment of capital grants to the States in 1975-76 totalling $430.3m. This amount represents the grant component of the State governments' Loan Council programs.  ( Quorum formed) 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Before I call again on the honourable member for Shortland, I remind honourable members that when a quorum is called not only must they not leave the chamber but they are not supposed to move around the chamber once they have entered it or even if they were in it when the quorum was called. They must remain in their seats. 
I can understand the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  calling a quorum since he has just returned from a long overseas trip at the expense of the taxpayers. He wants to make sure I have an audience when I have something to say in this chamber. The amount of $430.3m represents the grant component of the State governments' Loan Council programs for 1975-76 and is equal to one-third of the total program- a slightly higher proportion than in 1974-75. 
Before going on to answer some of the comments made by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  I take the opportunity to draw to the attention of the House the effect that the blocking of the Appropriation Bills will have on this legislation and the complementary services to be provided by this legislation. Honourable members will recall that on 14 October I asked several questions of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  relating to the activities of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  earlier this year in respect of overseas loan negotiations. We have heard over the past weeks many challenges issued by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to the Prime Minister and other Ministers. Therefore I am pleased to challenge the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to come clean and answer the questions I am going to put to him. 
The Australian public is gravely concerned at the shabby and sordid role that has been played by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and his faceless informants in the overseas loans debate. The Australian people are entitled to know where he is getting his alleged leaks, how much is being paid for them, who has been paid or will be paid and who has footed the bills.  Mr Khemlani  's fortuitous arrivals in Australia recently were not coincidences. As a commodity trader with governments and government agencies around the world, he stands to lose a lot by collaborating in a political attack on the Australian Government. The doors to all governments and government agencies around the world are now closing to him, so he must have received an immense consideration to induce him to join in the charade we have seen from the Opposition. The Australian people are not fools, and they are entitled to know who brought  Mr Khemlani  to Australia, who organised his trips, what was the inducement and who paid it. I challenge the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to tell the Australian people the facts. Did the funds come from the same oil company to which the Prime Minister referred and which the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  represents? Or did they come from Utah Mining Australia Ltd? Who provided the funds and the inducement? 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware of reports that the Premier of New South Wales is alarmed at the cost of the proposed national rehabilitation and compensation scheme. Has the Premier of New South Wales communicated with the Prime Minister officially on this matter? What would be the financial effect of the national rehabilitation and compensation scheme on motor vehicle owners and employers? 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware that Australian National Railways are considering the closure of the Darwin-Larrimah rail link as a result of this Government's austerity program? Will the Minister give a firm assurance that the line will not be closed and that the employment of the personnel concerned will be ensured? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, may I add my congratulations to those tendered to you by the previous speakers. Would you please convey to the  Speaker  my congratulations on his appointment to high office? I am confident that you will exercise your powers with the generosity, breadth and latitude to which I have been accustomed in the past. 
And latitude, yes. He is capable of it. From the day the Australian Government came to office in 1972 until the shameful events of last Remembrance Day, the Liberal and National Country Parties carried on a deliberate and effective campaign of undermining public confidence and creating fear, division and hatred in the community. That campaign was supported in earnest by the media barons in this country, the same people whom the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  telephoned for advice and endorsement of his Party's decision to block the 1975-76 Budget. It climaxed in the decision of the GovernorGeneral to sack Prime Minister Whitlam and his Government on Remembrance Day 1975, a decision that I believe was unconstitutional and founded on a grand conspiracy, which included interests outside this nation whose concern is not for the political system under which we live but for the exploitation of our resources and the use of Australia as a base in the event of international conflict. This conservative Government was founded on a conspiracy, and already its actions in respect of electoral matters indicate that it is involved in corruption. It is obvious from the Prime Minister's actions that this Government is trying to conceal its actions in respect of a member of this House and a former Liberal senator. Does anyone believe that the Prime Minister did not see the  Canberra Times  of 6 December 1975, that a matter as serious as the one involving a member of this House was not brought to his notice before that member was selected and sworn as a Minister of the Crown? Does anybody believe that? Of course no one believes it. But the Prime Minister refused even this morning to answer the simplest questions on the subject. Or is it his intention that the Chief Electoral Officer,  Mr Ley,  is to be made the scapegoat in this affair? 
The media barons who sponsored this Government into office want the Australian people to forget the events of Remembrance Day 1975. They want to sweep this whole sordid affair under the carpet and have it forgotten. They have castigated the Labor Opposition for bringing it to public notice. It will not be forgotten and we as an Opposition would be answerable to the 43 per cent of Australian voters who supported us if we said: 'Okay, let us forget all about it. You violated the Constitution. You participated in a conspiracy against our system of parliamentary democracy. You contrived an election 18 months ahead of time and you won.' The Australian people and the Opposition will not rest until the facts are known and brought into public view and the guilty men exposed. The Labor Party was defeated at the election on 13 December 1975 and it accepts the verdict of the people'. 
-We accept the verdict. It is said that the decision of the people on 13 December resolved the constitutional issue relating to the respective powers of the 2 Houses- the people 's House, or the House of Representatives, and the upper House, or the Senate. The fact is that it did not. People did not vote in the main on the constitutional issue. The media barons saw to that. They voted on economic issues arising out of the unprecedented international recession and inflation that has spread across the Western world. The people were led to believe that the decision to sack the Whitlam Government was based on an impartial and proper interpretation of the Constitution and therefore the constitutional powers of the Houses were not an issue at the election. Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth was not informed of the action proposed to be taken by the Governor-General. She could not have taken similar action in the United Kingdom and I am sure that she would not have endorsed such action being taken in Australia had she known of it. I understand that she was furious when she learned of the events of 1 1 November 1975. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I think it might be wise if the honourable member for Shortland were to take that particular sentence out of the speech he has made. 
Could I re-phrase it and say that reports available indicate that Her Majesty was furious when she learned of the events of 1 1 November 1975? I understand that was published in the Press and is public knowledge, and I do not feel that it is an affront, with all due respect, to Her Majesty. It certainly is not intended as such. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The Minister for Transport will be aware of yesterday's decision of the New South Wales Cabinet to adopt the Urban Transport Advisory Committee's report for the expenditure of $150m on transport systems in New South Wales over the next 5 years. What discussions have taken place between this Government and the New South Wales Government on the proposed expenditure? What undertakings have been given by this Government to provide financial assistance? Will the $150m be additional to the untied grants to be given to New South Wales under this Government's socalled federalism policy? Finally, does this mean that in line with its federalism policy this Government in time will hand to the State its right to collect excise on motor fuel? 
-The Opposition welcomes the tabling of this, the third Report on Roads in Australia 1975 prepared by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. The existing legislation for the allocation of moneys for road construction- that is, the National Roads Act and the Roads Grants Act- covers the triennium to June 1977. Like the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  I have not had the opportunity to see the report. The Bureau's functions are an integral part of the planning and financing of an adequate national highway system in Australia and adequate intrastate and urban roads. At this stage the importance of the Bureau's recommendations in future road planning and financing cannot be gauged because of the lack of information on the Government's federalism policy on State grants. If, as is to be expected under this Government's policies, States are to be given completely untied grants in respect of road construction, then obviously the importance of the Bureau of Roads as a national planner of road systems must diminish. Likewise it can be expected that the national co-ordination of priorities for roads will also diminish. 
The Minister has stated that because of financial stringency copies of the Bureau's report will not be available to members of the Parliament. It is indeed a strange set of financial priorities that this Government has set if members are to be denied ready access to the Bureau's report but funds are available to pay a superphosphate bounty to farmer members of the Cabinet. The report is vital to the future road development of this nation and, as such, copies should be made available to each member of the Parliament. Its unavailability except in the Library can be interpreted only as another step in the return to secretive and closed government. 
Motion (by  Mr Ruddock)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it a fact that the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development has recommended to the Minister that nuclear powered vessels - 
-The purpose of the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill 1 976 is to amend the Air Navigation (Charges) Act 1952-1974 by inserting in the Principal Act the table of charges set out in clause 4 of the Bill. Its main effect will be to increase air navigation charges by 15 per cent, retrospective to 1 December 1975. Minor aspects of the Bill relate to the deletion of provisions in respect of flights to and from Papua New Guinea which are now covered by provisions applicable to other international flights. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
This Bill is the latest in the procession of repudiated promises of this corrupt conservative Government, which is rapidly creating new records of unemployment and inflation and has in its short term established an all time record of repudiated election promises. The conservative parties, in their election policy on civil aviation, stated that they would defer further implementation of the 80 per cent cost recovery plan of air navigation charges until proper studies and comparisons of cost recovery with other forms of transport were made. However, on 6 February this year the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  in a neat side step of his Government's election campaign promise not to increase air navigation charges, claimed that by increasing air navigation charges by 15 per cent, retrospective to 1 December, the Government has confirmed its election promise. 
The Air Navigation (Charges) Act enables the Department of Transport to impose charges on the operation of aircraft, for the use of aerodromes, airway faculties, meteorological services and search and rescue services provided, operated and maintained by the Australian Government. As I said at the outset, the purpose of this Bill is to increase the rate of those air navigation charges payable by the users of the services and facilities which I have already outlined. It is irresponsible to suggest that the present problems faced by the aviation industry are solely the result of the increase in the rate of recovery of the costs of providing the infrastructure essential to both the commercial airline and general aviation industries. The conservative parties in government in 1960 adopted a policy of 100 per cent recovery of aviation infrastructure costs but did nothing as a government to implement it in the ensuing 12 years. By refusing to implement their own policy the conservatives compounded the tasks of successive governments and of the industry by allowing the aviation industry to develop on a false cost structure. This Government and the Opposition are more or less in accord on the cost recovery program. It would seem that the only point at issue is the rate at which the cost recovery program should be implemented. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Transport drew attention to the costs which in this year are expected to be at least $195m, an increase of 1 1½ per cent or $20m over 1974-75, while the comparable revenue received from the users of airports and airway facilities at present rates is expected to rise from $95m in 1974-75 to $108m in 1975-76. The 15 per cent increase in air navigation charges for which this Bill provides will bring in an additional $4m so, clearly, increasing costs will outstrip the increased revenue expected. On a percentage basis, therefore, cost recovery will be in the order of 54 per cent which means that over 40 per cent of the costs will be subsidised or, in dollar terms, approximately $87m will be borne by the taxpayers, 90 per cent of whom do not travel by air. The Minister, as did his predecessor on a number of occasions, emphasised that air navigation charges form only about 3 per cent of the total operating costs of commercial aircraft and that a further 15 per cent increase in these charges means less than Vi per cent increase in aircraft operating costs. 
To claim that the cost recovery program of the previous Labor Government was the prime factor responsible for the financial difficulties of general aviation is deliberately to misrepresent the facts. The financial difficulties were influenced to a large degree by the general downturn in the rural sector following the collapse of beef and wool prices and the flow-on of the record international inflation and recession which hit Australia in the past 3 years and which was well under way when the Australian Labor Party Government came to office in 1972. Numerous emotive arguments can be advanced against the application of the user pays principle to Australian aviation and it is natural to expect that those with investments at stake in Australian aviation would argue and even distort issues, as they have done. 
It is true that Australia is a vast country. The Government has the responsibility of encouraging the development of modes of transport that will economically and efficiently service the sparse population scattered through the centre of our continent as well as that mainly based in the metropolitan areas on the seaboard. However, if general tax revenue is to be used to the tune of over $ 100m per annum to subsidise the use by 1 0 per cent of the population of one mode of transport, obviously an economic utilisation of our resources will not be achieved. Distortion and slants in the use of our resources and the development of our transport systems must be the result. If the aviation industry is to continue to be subsidised at a cost of over $ 100 m a year, surely there is an argument in favour of subsidising the other modes of transport on our continent to a similar extent. 
What must be borne in mind when the aviation industry objects to the cost recovery program is that the cost of servicing transport on our continent has to be borne by a population onefifteenth that of the United States of America which has a similar area to service. The costs of subsidising aircraft navigation services must be considered as a factor in the duplication of transport services where there has been heavy public investment in the past. As I said earlier, one could say that the subsidy available to the aviation industry has operated as an inducement to duplicate and even to triplicate existing modes of transport which have as a result become rundown or redundant and have suffered severe losses in passenger patronage. The obvious and most acceptable answer to the financial problems being faced by the aviation industry as a whole is an increase in the utilisation of the services available, an increase in patronage- in other words, more paying customers- not an increase in the level of infrastructure cost subsidisation. These problems are not insoluble but there is a clear difference between the potential for increased commercial traffic and the potential for increased holiday or recreational traffic. I would like to see greater application by the industry to expanding patronage in each of these 2 areas of potential trade. 
There has been public comment by interested parties on the notional charges taken into account by the Department of Transport in establishing the cost of air navigation facilities provided by the Australian Government. Whether these notional charges are valid ought to be discussed and ought to be examined. I hope that the review that the Minister has ordered of the cost structures of the various modes of transport in Australia will bring to public light facts on which a proper assessment can be made of cost recovery programs and of the amount by which the infrastructure costs of these services are subsidised by the general taxpayer. It is desirable in the public interest that the facts on infrastructure cost and the desirability of services provided be known and examined and their comparative merit evaluated. 
In these times of economic difficulties that we as a nation face, private enterprise or the myth of private enterprise and government ought to be looking at economic solutions and not at political solutions. Again it is natural that vested interests in the community will lobby for political solutions. They are the easiest so far as the private sector is concerned. They will lobby for political solutions, for subsidies and for financial assistance from government rather than seek that proper private enterprise solution to the problems, that is, greater competition, greater efficiency and increased turnover. It is essential in the national interest that there be a ready exchange of information on industry problems and plans for the future between industry and government and between industry and the Opposition. I know that my predecessor in the Opposition and the present Minister have both long held a deep interest in the problems of the transport industry. They have long been involved in its management and concerns. 
I likewise as Opposition spokesman on transport have a similar genuine interest, particularly in the aviation industry. I welcome the opportunity to talk to people in the industry and to discuss with industry representatives their views and problems. However, there are statements such as that recently attributed to  Sir Reginald  Ansett in a recent edition of the  Australian Financial Review,  and with your forbearance,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would like to quote directly from the article by John Stackhouse. It said: 
It took all my wits and all my experience to handle those bastards. 
He was referring to the period during which the Australian Labor Party had been in office. That kind of statement more than anything else harms the good relations and good interchange of information that ought to exist between industry and government, industry and politicians, industry and Opposition. I hope that that kind of statement will be rarely seen in the Australian Press and that there can be a reasonable and responsible flow of information and discussion between all aspects of the transport industry and the Australian Parliament as a whole. 
I would like to refer to international air fare discounting. I feel it is appropriate at this stage in view of the Minister's position on that matter to state that a decision was well in train at the time of the dissolution of the last Parliament and regulations were, I understand, about to be tabled at the time of the dissolution. The point I want to make here is that looking at the problems of the aviation industry, Qantas Airways Ltd in particular has been disadvantaged to a great extent by the delay in tabling these regulations. The Opposition appreciates that there were certain difficulties in framing the regulations more tightly, to close some of the loopholes and to facilitate the prosecution of cases where there was a detection of breaches of the International Air Transport Association agreement and the international air fare discounting arrangements. However, if one is to accept as being reasonably based the figures that have been bandied about publicly- that is, that international air fare discounting has been disadvantaging Qantas to the extent of $ 10m to $20m per annum- the quarter of a year delay in bringing forward these regulations which were about to be tabled in November last year would have cost Qantas, one could reasonably assume, in the order of $2m to $3m. I think it is a sorry situation that that has occurred, that more haste was not applied in order to ensure that the regulations were brought into effect more readily. As I said previously, the aviation industry has its problems. Likewise, governments have their problems in making budgets balance. Irrespective of which government is in office, it has the responsibility of balancing its books. It does not help anyone to distort - 
I am being kind to you. It does not help anyone in industry if the infrastructure costs incurred in the aviation industry in the provision of services, which are in fact essential services, are distorted. But if the industry is seriously to put forward arguments to the effect that notional charges which are to be taken into account in establishing the infrastructure costs are not soundly based, then it ought to put forward soundly based arguments. To put forward specious arguments is only to confuse the picture. The inquiry which the Minister has already ordered into the cost structure or the infrastructure of the various transport industries or the modes of transport in Australia is the appropriate inquiry to receive those arguments. The proposition being put forward by certain interests in the aviation industry, namely that notional costs, the allowance for depreciation and interest charges ought not to be taken into account, ought to be compared with the operation of the private sector of the industry, where interest charges, depreciation charges, the cost of replacements and the difference between depreciation allowances and the cost of replacements are taken into account. I think it is a valid argument. The Opposition believes that it is a valid argument that these things ought to be taken into account when assessing the overall cost of providing those services. 
The other matter to which I wish to advert in this debate, which is related to the bearing of the costs of air navigation charges covered under this Bill, is the suggestion- again I hope that the Minister will give a clear statement on this point at the conclusion of the debate- in some sections of the media that an inquiry is under way into the possibility of expanding domestic air routes, that the regional air routes presently operated by Qantas Airways Ltd ought to be handed over to the domestic airlines. I see that as a danger to our international flag carrier. It is probably the most detrimental thing that could occur to Qantas' interests at this particular time. I have not seen an assurance from the Minister or a statement from the Minister in this regard, but I have seen a report which gives the impression that the Minister had stated that or that that was the Minister's view. I do not hold him to it because it is not explicit, but I hope that at the conclusion of the debate the Minister will make some reference to that matter and that he will be able to tell us the Government's policy in relation to it. I put forward the Opposition's very clear view that any extension by the domestic airlines, such as Ansett Airlines of Australia or Trans- Australia Airlines, into regional air routes would be to the detriment of our international flag carrier. If Ansett was to be allowed to extend its operations, particularly to the New Zealand traffic, it would quite properly be seen by the community as another instance of payola by the present Government, of the pay-off to Ansett Transport Industries Ltd for the services that have been provided in the past to those people now in government. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill, as I said. It appears that what is at issue is not the principle of whether or not there should be a cost recovery program. We when in government set an 80 per cent target; the present coalition parties resolved on a 100 per cent cost recovery program in 1960. The issue then is only the rate at which costs should be recovered. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What defence equipment has been purchased from the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation or its associated companies in the last 20 years. 
What was the date and cost of each purchase. 
If agents were involved, who was the agent associated with each purchase. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Who is conducting the inquiry referred to by the Prime Minister in his answer to a question on 25 February 1976  (Hansard,  pages 256-7). 
Who ordered the inquiry. 
When was the inquiry ordered. 
When did the inquiry commence. 
What form is the inquiry taking. 
Does it include surveillance of persons; if so, whom. 
To whom will the report be made. 
When will the report be made. 
Is the inquiry confined to Australia; if not, what other nations are concerned and where else are investigations taking place. 
10) Is the inquiry confined to Australian nationals; if not, what other nationals are being investigated. 

 - Mr Speaker, my question is directed to you and it concerns the rights of members of the Parliament. I refer to recent reports that some members of this House have been threatened with withdrawal of party endorsement, even expulsion and denial of the use of certain facilities of the parliamentary building if they convey certain information to the Press or the public.  Mr Speaker,  do such threats constitute an attempt to intimidate members of this House in the performance of their parliamentary and public duties? 
-It probably applies to the honourable member. Are not such threats a serious infringement of the rights and privileges of members of this House? What action can you take,  Sir, to  protect the rights and privileges of the members of this House from intimidation by the Prime Minister? 
-The Opposition supports the motion for the reestablishment of the Standing Committee on Road Safety. I do not want to dwell at length on the motion but rather to refer to the able chairmanship of the former Committee by my colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  and the outstanding work that Committee did. It developed for itself over the years a reputation for quality of report, for incisiveness and for an investigatory attitude. I am rather saddened that the Government has seen fit under the smokescreen heading of costcutting programs not to proceed with the establishment of the Road Safety and Standards Authority. 
What we are seeing at the present time in this country is not a cost-cutting program but rather a redirection program, a rearrangement of priorities. This Government claims to believe in the delegation of power but its actions belie its words in this instance. I refer to the Road Safety and Standards Authority because yesterday the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  went to some length in speaking to the motion to point out the Government's position and its reasons for not proceeding with the original decision. The Government's action in not proceeding with the incorporation of the separate authority is, I think, very retrograde. We have heard to date that within the Department of Transport there are to be cuts involving $ 1 3m, but of that amount items involving $8.75m have not yet been specified. We in the Opposition are unable to get information on what those items are. The decision not to proceed with the proposed Road Safety and Standards Authority which was to have been established at Albury-Wodonga is, in the belief of the Opposition, another attack on the decentralisation program that was followed by the previous Government. The wind-down which obviously will occur in Albury-Wodonga as a result of that decision will have a detrimental impact upon that growth centre. The $ 10m to $1 lm that was to be invested in that development, the population movement and employment opportunities that would have been created in the Albury-Wodonga growth centre complex would have been an addition to the activities in that region of which Albury-Wodonga would have been the centre. 
When we look at the priorities, when we see the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty and the reintroduction of the various other rural pay-offs to sectional rural interests- to corporate rural concerns, not to needy individual farmersand when we see the abolition now of the proposed establishment of a separate Road Safety and Standards Authority, I do not think it is too harsh to say that some of those transfers and some of those alterations and priorities are going to be paid for in human lives. I am rather disappointed with the Minister because when this legislation was introduced in March 1975 he was one of those foremost in support of the establishment of the Authority. I would like to look back to some of the comments that he, as the honourable member for Gippsland, made in this chamber on 15 April. I refer to pages 1631 and 1632 of  Hansard.  He took the credit at the time for being responsible for the expert group on road safety that brought down the recommendation for the establishment of a separate authority. At that time he said: 
I tabled that report in this Parliament in October 1972, and the Government of the day accepted the findings and announced, in November 1972, its decision to set up a national office on road safety. 
He went on to say: 
Undoubtedly, this is a proud day for those men, when this Authority is now finally getting under way. 
I am delighted that the Bill has the support of the Parliament and indeed, of the House of Representatives Select Committee - 
He went on to mention the horrific dimensions of death on the roads and to congratulate Commonwealth and State Ministers who comprise the Australian Transport Advisory Council, to which he referred again in his speech yesterday. Very explicitly he said in April 1975, as recorded on page 1632 of  Hansard: 
This Bill is welcomed by the Opposition. 
The Opposition welcomes and supports the Bill. 
Having said all of those things plus many other things one would have thought that when this authority was on the way to being establishedthe legislation was through both Houses of the Parliament and it had the combined support of both Houses of the Parliament- if there was to be a suggestion from any direction that costs be curtailed and the authority not proceed as a separate authority independent from the Department of Transport, independent from the bureaucracy, the Minister would have fought tooth and nail to ensure that the Authority was maintained as an independent operation. However, it seems from the statements the Minister has made in recent weeks that he acquiesced in the decision which, in effect, is to risk human lives to obtain a few miserable dollars to reallocate financial advantages to his Party's backers. 
There has been a significant downturn in the loss of life on our roads in the last 5 years. Much has been done in that past 5 years- much as a result of the work of this Committee- but there is much more to be done. If the Road Safety and Standards Authority had been established as a separate authority and had been working in harness with the other research committees and with the proposed Standing Committee, the subject of this motion, then I am certain that the road toll could have been reduced still further. Obviously additional lives are going to be lost in the next 3 years because the Authority has not been established. As I said earlier, we are now seeing a strange set of priorities being implemented under the smokescreen of a cost saving program. It is a strange set of priorities for a government to be able to find $ 1 1 m- and that was in its election campaign policy- to restore the school cadet service but seek to make a petty reduction in expenditure by eliminating the road safety standards authority at the expense of human life. I note that in paragraph (5) of the motion relating to the establishment of a joint committee to inquire into the system of committees for the Parliament it is proposed that the  deputy chairman  should be a member of the Opposition. In the motion we are now considering there is no such provision. I suggest to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that this may well be something that could be applied because from my experience of working on the committees, the sharing of the chairmanship and  deputy  chairmanship is a good thing for the functioning of the committees. It enables greater involvement and it helps to give a more bipartisan approach to the inquiries and projects that come before a committee. The Opposition supports the motion. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What aircraft have been purchased from the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation or its associated companies by Australian companies or Government bodies in the last 20 years. 
What was the date and cost of each purchase. 
-May I take the opportunity to congratulate the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  on his maiden address. I rise to speak in support of the amendments moved to the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's opening address by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  These amendments clearly focus attention on the gaps and deficiencies to be readily found in the Governor-General's Speech. In fact, the Speech is significant more for what it fails to say and make clear than for what it purports to tell us of this Government's future intentions. I think it is appropriate at this stage to refer to Alan Reid's book  The Power Struggle  and extracts from it in reviewing the performance of another LiberalCountry Party coalition Government, that of  Sir Robert  Menzies. In writing about  Sir Robert  Menzies, at page 38 he said: 
He came to power on a platform of restoring private enterprise to its one-time eminence, of freeing the banking system from Government authority, of giving back to the States the right that they had been gradually losing under frankly and openly  unificationist  Labor federal administrations to control their own financial affairs, and of reducing the power of the bureaucracy which had expanded under Labor's rule. He changed remarkably little. He maintained the Government enterprises established by the Chifley Labor Government, if anything tightened Government control over the banking system, kept the States in a state of financial dependence upon the Commonwealth, and enlarged the power of the bureaucracy. 
I think, in some years to come, similar words will be written about the performance of the present Prime Minister and his Government and the platform on which it came to power and the content of this Governor-General's Speech which we are now debating. At no point in the Governor-General's Speech is reference made to the proper relationship between the 2 Houses of the Parliament. Yet it is just this relationship which will be crucial in the years ahead in determining the ability and value of the Parliament as an institution capable of reflecting the needs and aspirations of the Australian people. 
The first part of the amendment, to which I now speak, refers implicitly to what has always been acknowledged as one of the basic and fundamental principles of our system of responsible government: The lower House, the House of Representatives, takes precedence over the Senate, particularly in matters dealing with public finance. The Constitution makes abundantly clear the role of the House of Representatives as the sole originator of Bills for the purposes of public finance. The Constitution also makes clear the inability of the Senate to amend any Bills dealing with such matters of public finance. Since Federation the forms, practices and patterns of the Parliament have been built around and founded on the acknowledged and constitutionally prescribed fact that in regard to financial matters the House of Representatives is predominant over the Senate. Indeed, it was a widely held belief by eminent constitutional scholars that as the Constitution forbade the Senate authority to amend Bills relating to financial matters this was tantamount to a prohibition on its authority to defer or reject such Bills. These patterns and conventions safeguarded the smooth, uninterrupted and stable operation of government and national administration in Australia for almost three-quarters of a century. Yet these conventions are now shattered, and shattered perhaps beyond repair. 
The conservative parties, only a few months ago in a series of machiavellian manoeuvres, viciously attacked and destroyed, for their own political ends, the equilibrium of the relationship of constitutional convention which for almost 75 years had been maintained between the House of Representatives and the Senate. It was a relationship maintained on the basis of the acknowledged supremacy of the lower House on financial matters. This attack was launched by those men who for decades have peddled the propaganda that it was they and they alone who stood by convention, precedent and tradition; that it was they and they alone who supported law and order. All Australia now sees just how hypocritical that propaganda was. The truth is that these men, these self-righteous conservatives, smug in the belief of their divine right to rule, support order only as long as it gives them the advantage and support law only as long as it is prejudiced in their favour. It is now clear that they are interested solely in power- power by any means and power at any cost. History, I am certain, will lay the blame squarely at their door for the damage that they have done to our democratic system. 
The second part of the amendment points up another omission from the Governor-General's address. This Government, which began its path to power on an act of political blackmail, apparently has no intention of making even a token effort to put to right the damage that it has done to the Australian parliamentary system. I recall challenging the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  a few weeks ago to declare the Government's policy in respect of a referendum to be held in the term of this Parliament to determine the rights of each of the 2 Houses. Nothing has been heard of that challenge. 
We will not hear any more of it because the Government does not have a policy on this matter and the honourable member supports the Government. For the future the danger, which present members of the Liberal and National Country Parties have caused, is that a future government without a secure Senate majority will have little or no likelihood of serving its full term. Any chance or contrived majority of senators who oppose that government's electoral mandate could conspire to sabotage it at their whim by blocking Supply. It will happen. Honourable members should have no fear that it will happen. With the deferment of Supply late last year by the conservative party senators the operation of the system of responsible government in Australia took a body blow from which it will not recover without extensive and bipartisan efforts to make good the deficiencies now all too obvious in our parliamentary processes. 
Government supporters are interested only in power for the present time. We are interested in the future of parliamentary democracy in this country for all time. The Government has won the present battle and it has the power for the present, but only for the present. Those honourable members opposite who support the actions of last November betray their rights as members of the House of Representatives. They really ought to run for the Senate and not for the House of Representatives. I should like to see how many of them will resign their places in this House and stand for the Senate at the next election. I am sure that none of them will. With the deferment of Supply by the conservative senators late last year we saw the destruction of the system that had developed in the first three-quarters of a century of our development as a federation. Responsible government is well defined by Professor Geoffrey Sawer, one of Australia's foremost constitutional authorities. It is a definition which, for the enlightenment of those honourable members opposite, who are rowdy, I quote. Their behaviour is in accord with that of the their predecessors when they were in Opposition. It is for their enlightenment that I quote the definition. Professor Sawer states: 
Australia follows the British system of responsible Cabinet Government. This system requires that the Queen's representative should act on the advice of a Cabinet of Ministers, members of Parliament having the support of the majority party . . . in the lower House. 
If Australian democracy is to return to a position consistent with that described by Professor Sawer, a position which promised and conferred certainty and stability on the workings of the Parliament, vigorous remedial action is essential. If the power of Opposition members in the Senate to destroy the elected government at will is not eliminated then the long term consequences of such a capricious and politically motivated power to destroy will itself destroy all vestiges of stability and certainty in Australian government and administration. It is a perversion of the very nature of representative democracy that the elected representatives of the people can be hamstrung in their task of government by just those men that the people have rejected as potential administrators of the nation 's affairs. 
The Australian Labor Party knows that it can expect nothing constructive from this Government in this area of vital concern. It is a corrupt government founded on conspiracy and treachery. Supporters of the Government wear the label well. Thus the task of erasing this black mark of shame against Australian democracy falls to other quarters. The Australian Labor Party and the Labor movement together will do their part to make the Australian people truly aware of how the calculated actions of the conservative parties last November have seriously endangered the effective operation of democracy in Australia. However long it takes, the shame of last Remembrance Day must be wiped away. 
-You will be out. Your turn will come. During its period in office as a twice elected Government, the Australian Labor Party sought to implement programs for a more just and equitable distribution of wealth within the Australian society. Now, however, as we sec from the Governor-General's address and as outlined in the third part of the amendment of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins ), this Government intends to destroy that program- a program that was designed to ensure greater social justice and equality of opportunity for all Australians. Opportunity is a word that Government supporters have forgotten all about. 
The conservatives who sit opposite intend only that the rich will get richer and the rich can only get richer by the poor getting poorer. 
The honourable member should tell that to the poor if he thinks it is rubbish. Those opposite will ensure that this happens at the direct expense of the majority of Australians whose means are only modest and often inadequate. Pensioners are already paying for the superphosphate bounty with the deferment of their pension increase- a bounty that benefits almost exclusively the wealthiest members of the rural community while the small needy farmers whose usage of fertiliser is perhaps only minimal will be fortunate if they benefit to the extent of a few dollars. So much for the care, compassion and social justice of the conservatives. It is a wonder the pensioners have not already been reduced to existing on handouts of an extra 50c a week, as was the case under previous coalition administrations. No doubt this practice will return also. 
The Australian savings bond issue recently floated by this Government has forced up interest rates on home loans financed through building societies. This additional burden may very well place the cost of a new home beyond the reach of many young home buyers. What has the Government promised to do to assist these people? The homes savings grant, with all its inadequacies and inequities, is to be reintroduced. I warn applicants to beware of the canvassed homes savings grant. Most people are unaware that the scheme will not provide any benefits to anyone before some time in 1979. By that time it will be too little too late. Yet the scheme of housing loan rebates introduced by the Labor Government, which benefits everyone paying interest on his original home loan- not just the people with the opportunity or the ability to save- is apparently to be reviewed. I suspect that this is merely a term used to disguise the fact that the scheme is fast nearing the end of its life span. Again I think the Government ought to be frank with the community and with the young home purchasers and tell them that it intends to abolish the scheme in this Budget. The Government has canvassed its abolition in a number of ways, but it should be frank with the young people and tell them so that the young people can arrange their own finances in the coming year. 
I could easily continue to enumerate the instances where this Government has clearly demonstrated its intention of transferring resources from the middle and low income families to those on higher incomes. I am sure those instances are already well known to the people concerned. If so far the Australian people have been fooled and confused by the machinations of the media as to the true colours of this Government, honourable members should recall the mention I made earlier of  Sir Robert  Menzies' achievements, what he promised and what he did. The colours of this Government- the reference to and support for wealth and privilege for the few- ought to be brought more before public attention. Again the Government ought to come clear and spell out its policy. It does not have a specific policy. In fairness to the electorate and to those who supported it on 13 December, it ought to spell out its policy. 
The impending re-introduction of radio and television licence fees by this Government is a major step in redistribution of incomes. In effect it is a poll tax or a household tax of $70 or $90, depending on whether one has a black and white television set or a colour television set. 
That is not at all surprising. That tax, a flat household tax, does not relate to the capacity of a family to pay. I have no doubt that certain households will not be able to have a colour television set because of the impost of the radio and television licence fees which will be reintroduced by this Government. 
We have heard something about the federalism policy of this Government. Really it is the answer to a federal politician's dream. It is an unloading of the national responsibility by a federal government to State governments, and also handing back to the State governments the responsibility for expenditure. It will be very interesting to see how the conservative State Premiers welcome with open arms not only the transference of income but also the transference of expenditure that will follow if ever federalism is brought in. 
Let us look at local government and at the promise to local government of a fixed percentage of income. This promise comes from parties which steadfastly opposed at every opportunity during the past 3Vi years any proposition to give direct financial assistance to local government. At every step they blocked it. They did so in the Senate. They tried in the High Court. Now they come up with a pOliCy which says: 'We recognise the needs of local government. We will give you a fixed percentage of tax income on a per capita basis'. A per capita basis of distribution of finance to local government will not help those ratepayers who feel heavily the burden of rates. It will not help those local government units which have a sparsity of population. It will not help those local government units which have settlements within their council borders which are scattered, which have problems in providing municipal services caused by distance, which have problems caused by age distribution and which have problems caused by income distribution. The $64 question will be how this Government tries to develop a system by which it can equitably distribute on a per capita basis funds to local government. I do not believe it will work. I think when local government starts to examine it more closely and compares it with a system of direct financial assistance to local government based on assessed needs, as was established by the Grants Commission, local government will see that it has been sold a pup. This Government has not examined fully and specifically what is involved in the distribution of financial assistance to local government on a per capita basis. It is a nice little slogan; it is easy to say; but I suggest that those opposite think about it. 
The re-introduction of State income tax under federalism is based, we are told, on what is supposed to be a successful Canadian system. The Canadian system is not successful. It has resulted in major distortions between the provinces in Canada. They would like to be well done with the system. They have taxes ranging from 30.5 per cent surcharge in some provinces up to 42.5 per cent in other provinces. They are figures which the community ought to be thinking about. The same problems exist in Canada between a federal government and provincial governments. As I said earlier, federalism is the answer to a Federal politician's dream. One can unload the odium of collecting revenue and the responsibility for wise and balanced expenditure of funds on a national basis. The scheme flies in the face of the national interest. I mentioned  Sir Robert  Menzies earlier. Thirty-five years ago uniform income tax was introduced in this country.  Sir Robert  Menzies offered State income tax to the State governments in 1951. They rejected his offer as not being in their interest and not being in the national interest. Successive governments- State governments, Federal governments, Liberal governments, Labor governments- have seen fit to support the continuance of uniform income taxation because in that way the expenses and the revenue needed to develop this country as a nation, not as 7 separate entities but as one nation, Australia, are best served. The national interest is best served by uniform income tax, and the resources needed and distributed within the nation are best served by a system of uniform income tax. 
The Governor-General's Speech referred to the investment allowance. Again it is an openended thing. It may be half a billion dollars, it may be three-quarters of a billion dollars. No one knows. No one can cost it. But while this Government is busy hounding unemployed young people, vilifying young people, because they are getting benefits, 836 young women in my electorate are out of work. There are vacancies for five. The Government can hound the 836 as much as it wants; there are jobs for only five. The Government's assumption is that all people have to do is to get up in the morning, put on their best dress or their best suit and go out and look for a job and that the only reason these people have not got a job is that they have not looked for one. The Government can tell the 83 1 young women in my electorate who cannot get a job what its campaign is and what its policy towards young people is. 
I ask the honourable member to withdraw that remark. There is an inference in that remark in respect of the young women of Australia being on the streets. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the recent visit overseas by the Governor-General undertaken for official purposes. 
If so, what places did the Governor-General visit, how long did he stay in each place, who accompanied him to each place, what was the date and nature of each official engagement, and what was the total cost of the trip and, in particular, the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation, (c) car hire and (d) gifts. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
How many days or parts of days has the GovernorGeneral spent overseas on official visits since 27 February 1974. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Governor-General, in the course of his official duties, had occasion to receive (a)  Mr Rupert  Murdoch and ( b) the Chief Justice; if so, is he able to say on what dates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What works of art have been acquired for or installed at (a) Government House and (b) Admiralty House (i) between 1 1 July 1 974 and 29 April 1 975 and (ii) since 29 April 1975. 
At what cost and on whose recommendation was each work acquired or installed. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has  Mr Richard  Cobden travelled in VIP aircraft. 
If so, on what dates, for what purposes, and by whose authority has he travelled in such aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
On what occasions and in what capacities had the present Prime Minister visited Singapore since his election to the Australian Parliament 
Who was the Australian High Commissioner in Singapore on each occasion. 
What positions did these persons hold on 1 1 November 1975. 
What positions do they hold now or have they been appointed to hold. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Transport who will be aware of the important role of the monthly issue of airworthiness directives in safeguarding the lives of air travellers and aircraft operators. I ask the Minister: Why have the regular monthly issues of airworthiness directives to regional offices been deferred? Is it because of the freeze on finance in his Department? Will he assure the Australian public that his Department will not take any steps that will cause a reduction in the high standard of aircraft operation in Australia and that Australian lives will not be placed at risk as a result of the Government's reallocation of expenditures program? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Are records of attendance at training courses maintained by the Department for people training under the NEAT System. 
Are deductions made from NEAT allowances because of non-attendance at training courses. 
If so, are NEAT trainees informed at the commencement of their courses that their allowance will be reduced for non-attendance. 
What deductions have been made from NEAT trainees since the system's inception, according to (a) State and (b) training courses. 
From how many persons have deductions been made for non-attendance, how many were (i) males and (ii) females, and what has been the total sum deducted. 
-The Roads Acts Amendment Bill is concerned primarily with an adjustment to the National Roads Act 1 974 and the Roads Grants Act 1 974 to allow for a cost of living adjustment since these Acts came into force. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. However, reading between the lines of the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  one can see the first steps towards a renunciation by this conservative Government of its responsibility to ensure an adequately planned program of roads for the whole of Australia. This BUI purports to provide additional grants to the States of $64m for expenditure on roads in 1975-76. In fact, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has requested State Premiers to postpone claims of $20m of that amount until the next financial year. 
Honourable members will recall that the previous Labor Government introduced a similar Bill on 30 October 1975 to appropriate an additional $64m of Australian Government funds for payment to the States in the 1975-76 fiscal year. That was to be matched by the States with an amount of $58m, making a total of $ 122m. That Bill lapsed when the Parliament was dissolved improperly on 1 1 November last. At the same time it was the intention of the Labor Government- steps had been put in train- to move quickly to introduce legislation to provide grants for the triennium following the expiry of the present legislation at the end of the 1976-77 financial year. 
The previous Government was developing a system of co-operative planning between the Australian Government and the States with a view to initiating integrated transport legislation to cover Australian Government funding of a number of transport modes, including urban public transport and rail transport. When Labor came to office in 1972 transport generally had suffered 23 years of neglect and fragmentation. My colleague the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  was responsible for the amalgamation of the Department of Shipping and Transport and the Department of Civil Aviation into the present Department of Transport. Co-operative planning procedures with the States were established and, as I mentioned earlier, a continuing process was planned to integrate legislative grants across the various modes of transport. The first step- the integration of urban public transport and road grantswas being worked towards before 1 1 November last. That initiative lapsed with the change in government, and to date there has been no statement of policy on it by the coalition Government. The Opposition can only assume that it has been dropped. 
The second step would have been the integration of legislative arrangements for roads, urban transport and rail transport. The previous Government was pursuing an objective of giving the States 18 months notice of intended legislative arrangements- so essential in making the necessary planning decisions. This Government has given no notice of its intentions or its future policy. It has been given no notice at all of its intentions on the size of impending grants for the 1977-80 triennium, the size and timing of the 1 976-77 escalation grant or whether in fact it will continue the practice of indexing grants in future years. When we consider that the long delay in dealing with the present Bill was the direct result of those now in government, it is reasonable to expect that the 1976-77 escalation grant will not be treated as an urgent matter. Having in mind that under the Fraser Government the rate of inflation is achieving new heights, when the escalation grant is eventually passed on to the States it will have lost much of its value. 
The present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  then in Opposition, was critical of the amount to be paid to the States for roads in the current triennium when the Roads Grants Bill was debated in this House on 1 August 1974. As reported at page 990 of  Hansard,  he referred to fuel tax collections and said: . . . the Government, in the next 3 years, will spend only S3 per cent of the estimated $2, 1 32m it will collect in fuel taxes . . . 
If he had been genuine in his complaints at that time, he would have taken the opportunity which this Bill provides to increase the funds to be given to the States for road purposes, but instead of increasing the amount payable to the States this conservative Government, obsessed with reducing the Budget deficit in a period of heavy unemployment, has asked the States to defer their claims for $20m of the $64m we are discussing until after 1 July. Not only are the States being asked to carry the burden of the $20m deferred claims, but complementary to that is the $18m which would be the States' quota attaching to the $20 m in the current financial year. The Government's request was not received generously by the State Premiers at the recent Premiers Conference- and understandably so. 
-It is true. The States had already committed their funds in anticipation of receiving the full amounts. With the high rate of inflation under the present Administration the States are not able to compensate from their own resources for any reduced level of assistance from the Australian Government. We have not been told what will happen if the States do not choose to defer $20m of their claims until after 1 July. This legislation purports to provide $64m for road purposes, not $44m. So it will be interesting to see what happens if the States claim their full entitlement under this legislation before 30 June. 
The Minister said in his second reading speech that the additional $64m 'represents a very substantial effort on the part of the Commonwealth Government'. In fact the additional grant of $64m was set out in the Hayden Budget Papers and was not a fresh initiative on the part of this Government, as it would have the public believe. What of 1976-77? One estimate was that the escalation grant for 1976-77 should be S235m. The Bureau of Roads report for 1975 has recommended a cost of living adjustment of $ 1 57m. Will this $157m be adjusted by the $20m deferral that the Government has requested from the States or will the full amount of $157m recommended by the Bureau of Roads be granted? Nothing had been heard yet from the Minister on this subject. This is the appropriate time for the Government to give a categorical assurance to the States that the full amount of $ 157m will be provided in 1976-77. 
In the context of constant doomsday and horror budget forecasts from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  it is unlikely that the States will receive the escalation grant that has been recommended by the Bureau of Roads. What this Government in its paranoid obsession with reducing Government expenditure seems to forget is the impact on the public sector of sharp cuts in government spending. Road maintenance and construction authorities are high employers of labour. A sharp cut in public expenditure will have a sharp impact on employment in the private sector. The consequence would be increased unemployment and a return to the old stop-go philosophy of the pre- 1 972 days. 
The Minister referred in his second reading speech to amendments to the existing Acts to allow State governments more flexibility to transfer funds between road categories and between Acts. The previous Government had recognised the need for flexibility in administrative procedures and in the Bill of October 1975 moved to provide greater flexibility. Nevertheless, the Labor Government agreed with the Bureau of Roads on the need for the various categories of roads. Different types of roads serve different needs in the community. In the Bureau's 1973 report it noted different areas of neglect for different types of roads. Solutions to these problems require considerable planning and the different problems require different solutions. For example, local government authorities need assistance for street reconstruction and street maintenance. The Bureau of Roads identified these areas of need and the then Australian Labor Government took the initiative to meet those needs. This Government, however, is planning to take the level of flexibility much further than the previous Government intended. 
In a national approach to road planning, Australian Government priorities, State priorities and the national interest must be taken into consideration. It is quite clear that this Bill is the first step by the Government to abrogate all responsibility for road planning and road programming. 
The inklings that have been let fall about federalism show that the Government intends to hand over responsibility for roads to the States. In an address to the Australian Ashphalt Conference on 1 February 1976, delivered by  Mr Charles  Halton on behalf of the Minister, in speaking about roads other than national roads,  Mr Halton  said: 
The Government considers that these roads should remain the prime responsibility of the appropriate road authorities within each State. We will be aiming, through our Federalism policy, to co-operate with the States in providing the financial resources necessary to discharge their internal transport responsibilities. 
The Prime Minister, on page 9 of his statement which was circulated to the Premiers Conference on 4 February 1 976, stated: 
Secondly, there are some programs- or parts of programs- which represent areas of expenditure which clearly deserve continuing Commonwealth support but in which there is no obvious need that my Government can see for the Commonwealth to be involved in a specific way. 
I underline the word 'specific'. The statement continued: 
These are matters in respect of which priorities should appropriately be left to the States and their authorities to determine. 
In such cases, some form of absorption of specific purpose funds into general purpose funds would be appropriate. 
This matter will be given the most careful examination in close consultation with the States. Without in any way wishing to prejudice the outcome of that examination, I mention the Sewerage Program and that portion of roads assistance which relates to minor local urban and rural roads as examples of the kind of program at which we are looking closely. 
Both of these statements are ominous for the future of the present system of funding road construction and maintenance under the Roads Grants Act 1974. The Minister for Transport complains bitterly about what he sees as unwarranted control over road projects by the Australian Government. It is obvious where this Government's federalism policy will lead us; it will lead us back to the days of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act under which the States had complete say in the expenditure of Federal funds on roads. It is clear in which direction these funds are now to shift. 
The Minister made a special point of mentioning that he will not require States to seek his approval for the construction of urban arterial roads and freeways financed wholly from their own funds. We, in government, recognised the problems that 23 years of Liberal-Country Party neglect in our major cities had caused. Environmental problems and traffic congestion, combined with totally inadequate public transport systems were killing our cities. On assuming office we immediately set about tackling these enormous problems. We recognised that inner city freeways would not solve the problems of our cities and that it was pointless bringing even more motor cars into the central business districts of our cities. 
In 1972 Labor won office on a campaign of 'save the capital cities', and in 1974-75 voters assumed that this policy would be continued. But it is in precisely this area that the Minister clearly wishes to reverse the policy. I suppose it is not surprising that this anti-city pro-farmers government should seek to ensure that capital cities are not revived and that voters continue to be misled by the Government's smoke-screen policies on the reallocation of Government expenditure. The Minister plans to leave the States to construct freeways at will to add further congestion and pollution to what is already an unbearable situation. The unco-ordinated construction of freeways and roads is not in Australia 's interests. If this is to be the practice the Government may as well disband the Department of Transport and the Bureau of Roads, introduce federalism tax sharing with all its complexities and confusion and leave roads and transport to the States. 
It is no coincidence that the transport portfolio is in the hands of the National Country Party. The past speeches of the Minister for Transport indicate his preference for massive funds for rural roads at the expense of downgraded urban areas. Honourable members should look at the distribution of funds being provided in this Bill as compared with the distribution of funds in the original Bill introduced by the former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle, on 30 October last year. A reference to the 2 tables of allocation of funds shows that the national highway programs, under this Bill, has been reduced by $8.1m. That amount has been transferred to the road grants section of the Bill. Within the schedules of the road grants section of the Bill we find that rural arterial and developmental roads expenditure has been increased by $6.93m and for rural local roads, particularly in Victoria, the State to which the Minister for Transport belongs, expenditure has increased by $6. 27m, the program for minor traffic improvement safety procedures has decreased by $2.1m, urban arterial roads total expenditure has been decreased by $0.59m, urban local roads expenditure has been decreased by $2. 69m and the allocation for beef roads has been deleted. 
So one can see quite clearly from those figures that rural arterial development roads and rural local roads have benefited to the extent of more than $ 13m- the Minister smiles; I know he is happy about it- as compared with the schedule set out in the original Bill which came before this chamber last October. I hope to have more to say about the distribution of those funds during the Committee stages of the Bill. 
The result of the amendments contained in this Bill will be virtually to make the Minister- I know he will like this title- the Australian dictator for road construction and maintenance. The transfer of funds between the National Roads Act and the Roads Grants Act that are sought by the States on the basis of relative priorities will require the concurrence of the Treasurer as well as the approval of the Minister. However, transfers within the Roads Grants Act sought by the States will require simply the approval of the Minister. That places him in a most powerful position to pork barrel the rural constituenciesa practice for which the National Country Party is justly famous. He will be able to return to that past practice of buying rural votes with road funds- a return to rural socialism and the handout mentality of pre- 1972 that resulted in our major national highway, the Hume Highway, being a virtual goat track after 23 years of conservative government. 
The barnyard has woken up at last. One might well ask: Why bother to have a roads policy and require road programs if the Minister has supreme power to juggle road grants without examination by the Parliament? That is the conundrum that future road users now face. But one thing is certain: If urban local roads and the national highways programs are to be reduced to provide greater than the Bureau of Roads recommendations for rural local and rural arterial roads, then additional human lives will be lost to pay for National Country Party pork barrelling. Whilst urban arterial and sub-arterial roads constitute only 2 per cent of all roads in Australia, they carry about 50 per cent of all road traffic. Safety designed roads, especially where the usage rate is high, mean fewer motor accidents and more human lives saved. The responsibility for safe roads where they are most needed, co-ordinated with an efficient public transport system, is in the hands of the Minister. I ask him to consider the human lives to be saved when he is tempted in the future to approve road grant transfers that cannot be justified on the basis of a proper set of road priorities. To return to the handout mentality of road funding is to court disaster for thousands of Australian families. 
It is up to the Minister now to state clearly the Government's policy on road funding as it is to be effected by the so-called policy of federalism. If the States are to be solely responsible for financing the construction and maintenance of those roads presently funded under the Roads Grants Act 1974 then the Minister should say so explicitly. If that is to be the case, to what purpose will the proceeds of the fuel tax be applied? It should be remembered that the Minister complained in 1974 that insufficient funds- only 53 per cent of fuel tax proceeds- would be available for roads in the current triennium. I asked the Minister this question a few weeks ago but could not get an answer. Does the Minister recall? The Minister nods. 
What in fact would be achieved by handing over responsibility for roads to the States? That obviously is the import of the Minister's speech delivered to the Australian Asphalt Conference last February. It would require that road funds would become part of general revenue grants to the States. These general revenue grants out of income taxation would need to be adjusted for the different needs of each State and the inability of the smaller States of Western Australia, South Australia, Tasmania and Queensland to raise sufficient revenues from their own sources which will also be affected by the level of State income tax or super tax that they will be able to levy on State income earners. The Government would have to set up equalisation grants to adjust for these factors, and as time goes on these equalisation grants will have to be adjusted for changing circumstances. All this would require the setting up of an enormous bureaucracy to handle the Australian Government-State government financial arrangements. 
The result of the federalism policy, if implemented, will be the replacement of the annual Premiers Conference wrangle over funds with an even more complicated annual wrangle over federal income tax rates and State super tax rates. It will then be up to the States to decide what share of the State funds will go to transport and roads and what share will go to health, education, legal services and so on. It will be the end of national co-ordination of road expenditure. Federalism spells chaos and confusion for the present co-ordinated national system of road programs and road funding. It is no wonder the Roads Division of the Department of Transport is confused and uncertain about its future under federalism. 
In 1972 the Australian Labor Party inherited from the Minister and his colleagues a road and public transport system that had been shamefully neglected for 23 years. There were crowded and inadequate roads, goat track national highways and infrequent and expensive public transport. Urban communities desperately needed an efficient co-ordinated system of safe roads and clean, adequate public transport. 
The Liberal and Country Parties had a quarter of a century in which to act. How much longer did they need? I am sorry to have awakened the honourable member again. The Labor Government acted promptly to satisfy those needs. The Bill of October 1975 proposed a loosening of the Australian Government's control of road planning within the bounds of workability, not a wholesale sell-out of responsibility for roads to the States, as this Government seems to be intent on pursuing. The recent statements of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport appear to be the thin edge of the wedge of handing back to the States responsibility for their roads under the smokescreen of the government 's federalism policy and the reallocation of government expenditures. There is a real danger that the progress that has been made in developing a national coordinated system of roads linked with other modes of transport will be lost under the policies of this conservative Government. In short, if the policies that have been indicated by the Government are implemented, transport- public and private- in this country is headed for a massive deterioration. 
I want to refer briefly to clause 2 1 of the Bill which seeks to amend the principal Act by adding new schedules 9 and 10 which relate to rural arterial roads and developmental roads and rural local roads. I want to draw the attention of the Committee to the increases which, as I have stated, had occurred under this re-allocation. The increase in 
New South Wales was $4m; in Victoria- the State from which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  comes- it was $7.48m; in Queensland it was $ 1.61m; and in Western Australia it was $0. 1 1 m. This made a total increase of $ 1 3.2m in the allocation of grants for rural arterial roads and developmental roads and rural local roads. 
It is all very well for the Minister for Transport to say there can be transfers and a topping off at the end of the year. As my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  said earlier, the essential point is that money has been taken out of the most important program at all- the national highways program. If one looks a bit closer at schedules 1 1 and 12 one will see that in New South Wales there was a transfer out of urban local roads away from local government, the area which the Minister professes he wants to assist but which he bankrupted in his earlier years of office. There was a transfer of $2.22m out of urban local roads into urban arterial roads. In Victoria there was a transfer out or urban arterial roads of $2.8 lm and in urban local roads a decrease of $57,000. The Minister told us about the Bill but at no stage did he offer an explanation upon which to place any credence in accounting for the transfers from rural arterial roads to rural local roads. 
Clauses 6 and 16 of the Bill deal with provisions for transfers between Acts and transfers within Acts. I am at a loss to understand how to interpret these clauses, after listening to the Minister. This Bill is not an initiative of the present Government. But for the distribution of funds, as I understand it, the Bill is the same as that introduced in October last year. In his second reading speech the Minister mentioned the relationship of the flexibility within the Bill- the flexibility that was to be provided for transfers within the provisions of this Bill. The part of the Bill that worries me is the relationship of the present amendments to section 4 of the Roads Grants Act. The Minister has not mentioned this since his second reading speech. He virtually said that as far as the States and the urban arterial road construction are concerned they can do what they like. I draw the Committee's attention to the fact that urban arterial roads are a major public investment. There is a major public investment in public transport. There is a major public investment in other modes of transport. It is all very well to sound off and make noises about centralism but there is a resonsibility to the community to co-ordinate the various modes of transport, to co-ordinate the various amounts and directions of public investment so that there is an efficient use of public funds and so that there is a conservation of public funds. 
I think it is quite ridiculous for the Minister for Transport in the Australian Parliament to say: 'All wisdom resides in the States. We are only a bunch of idiots here, more or less. Lay me down and tickle my tummy, you can have all the money you like and do what you like with it'. That is in essence what the Minister has said. We put into the legislation- it is our legislation which the Minister is administering- a plan that would result in a proper and responsible co-ordination of the various modes of public transport, a responsible investment of public funds in transport in all its modes and provisions for participation and consultation with the States. Over and over again we hear the statement: 'But the States are the closest to the local scene. They know how to do best'. It is absolute nonsense. Ask any man who served in local government in New South Wales what he thinks of State bureaucracy in New South Wales, what he thinks of the expertise of the Department of Main Roads and what he thinks of the expertise of the Department of Local Government. 
All wisdom does not reside in the States. I do not think this Parliament ought to be taking the view that all wisdom should be in Canberra or all the wisdom should be in one of the State capitals. The view we ought to be taking is that there is a need for co-ordination and there is a need for consultation. Rather than trying to build up one centre of bureaucracy against another, we ought to be trying to develop, promote, exchange and interchange views and expertise. There is expertise here in the Bureau of Roads which comes within the Australian Department of Transport. The Minister is very proud of his department. I was surprised tonight to hear some of his remarks. I know he is proud, as a person, of his department. There is expertise here that should be made available to the States. I hope it is and I understand that it is. Likewise, in some areas the State departments have something to offer. By welding the best of these together, we ought to be able to do the best possible with every dollar that is spent on transport, whether it is on ferries, roads or urban public transport. 
If the Minister hopes that the result of this Bill will be virtually the handing over of responsibility to the States and the determination of priorities as they wish in the States, without regard to the other modes of transport and the other public funds involved, I suggest that the Minister is confessing his incompetence. If the Minister is genuine in what he is saying he ought to resign because there is no use for him or for the Department of Transport. His job ought to be that of co-ordinating. He ought to be the link between the States and the expertise in the Department. I find it difficult to accept his remark that all was lovey-dovey at the last Premiers Conference in relation to the $64m. He has referred to the minutes. 
-I am sorry, an ATAC meeting. The reports that I heard were different. Maybe the matter was discussed at a different place. Maybe it was not recorded in the minutes. 
They were factual. Your remarks would be distorted. The request for deferral of $20m did not get a happy reception. I do not know what has happened in relation to the next point which I wish to raise. Maybe the Minister will interject and give me the answer. If the garden is so lovely, if the State Transport Ministers are so happy about everything, can the Minister explain why within a few days of the announcement of the New South Wales election, which has ranked pretty strongly in the discussion tonight, the New South Wales Minister for Transport endeavoured to call off the scheduled Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting on 2 1 April? I do not know whether it is to be held. Is it on or is it off? 
-Is it that difficult to answer? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  honourable member will address his remarks to the Chair. 
-I should have asked the Minister through you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I am sorry I did not preface my question in that manner. I would like that question answered. If the relationship is so good, if the New South Wales Government is happy about the amount it is getting for roads, why did it want to defer the meeting of ATAC which was to be held in a few days' time? We know that the New South Wales Government wanted to defer it because of the approaching election, because of the bad tidings and because of the cutbacks that are coming. The Minister has said that the State transport administrations are efficient, that they are the wise men, that they know best how to do things in relation to transport. They know so much about it in New South Wales that the anticipated loss for this year is $300m. I believe the Australian people can do without that kind of expertise. I have more confidence in the Minister's Department. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the names and classifications of each of the persons who accompanied him on his recent trip to New Zealand. 
2 ) What was the cost of 
travel and 
accommodation in respect of each of the persons forming the delegation. 
Who was responsible for the costs of each member of the delegation. 
What places were visited by him and his party. 
With whom did he hold discussions during his stay in New Zealand. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the terms of  Mr Richard  Cobden 's employment by the Australian National Gallery. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the cost of running (a) Government House and (b) Admiralty House during the periods (i) July-December 1 974, (ii) January- June 1 975, and (iii) July-December 1975. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice 
1 ) What are the names and classifications of each of the persons who accompanied him on his recent visit to Japan. 
What was the cost of (a) travel and (b) accommodation in respect of each of the persons forming the delegation. 
Who was responsible for the costs of each member of the delegation. 
What places did he visit and whom did he visit. 
How many days were spent by him at temples and other places of historic interest, such as the Matsuyama Temples, and what was the cost to the taxpayer of these excursions. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Between what places did  Mr Richard  Cobden travel by VIP aircraft on 24 and 26 October, 6, 9 and 10 November and 6 and 8 December 1975  (Hansard,  23 March 1976, page 929). 
On which of these occasions did (a) His Excellency the Governor-General and (b) Her Excellency Lady Kerr fly by the same aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What (a) vessels, (b) aircraft and (c) vehicles of each of the 3 Defence Services have been engaged in the surveillance patrols of foreign fishing and prawning vessels off the Australian coast since 1 July 1975. 
) How many personnel from each of the 3 Services have been engaged in these patrols since 1 July 1 975. 
) What was the cost to taxpayers of the patrols provided by each of the Services since 1 July 1975. 
What was the total cost of the patrols since 1 July 1975. 
What steps have been taken to minimise the cost to taxpayers of the patrols under the Government's cost reduction program. 
If the cost of the patrols has increased since 1 July 1975, from what source have the additional funds required been obtained. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What passengers or goods did a VIP aircraft pick up or deliver at Coonawarra on or about 1 2 March 1 976. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I preface it by stating that the Prime Minister will be aware that 9 members of the New South Wales Parliament hold milk quotas in their State and that their quotas bring each of them an average gross income of $10,000 per annum. 
-I am sorry, $100,000 per annum. I ask the Prime Minister: Has he inquired as to which of his Ministers and back benchers hold milk quotas in New South Wales? If not, will he institute such inquiries? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the value of (a) fish and (b) prawns caught from Australian vessels off the northern Australian coast in the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75, and in the 8 month period to 29 February 1 976. 
Is information available to show the value of (a) fish and (b) prawns taken by foreign vessels off the northern coast of Australia in the same years and period; if so, what was the value. 
Of the Australian based fishing and prawning vessels operating off the northern Australian coast, can he say in what State each vessel is domiciled, and what is the financial investment involved in operating each of the vessels. 
How many (a) males and (b) females are employed in the operation of the Australian based vessels. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the place and nature of the GovernorGeneral's official engagements on 24, 28 and 29 December 1975; 2, 14, 16, 23 to 29 January and 2 February 1976  (Hansard,  23 March 1976, page 927). 
Who were the 5 officials who accompanied him. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the date and cost of acquisition of each work of art lent to Government House and Admiralty House since 1 1 July 1974  (Hansard,  23 March 1976, page 928). 
-The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  drew attention to one of the problems of committees, and that is, because of their work loads, the need to meet during working hours. I point out that House of Representatives committees can meet during working hours. The general reason why they tend not to do so is the existing work loads. This point highlights the great need for any new committee or any committee activity to be looked at in the light of total committee activities. As a member of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System, I regard the action of the Government in proceeding with this motion, before the Joint Committee brings down its final report, as discourteous, arrogant and preemptive. It is discourteous because it has no regard for the great deal of time and effort given by members of the Joint Committee, the Committee staff and its many witnesses since the 
Committee's formation was agreed to by this House on 18 September 1974. It is arrogant because the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  are well aware that the Committee has brought up an interim report. That report was brought up prior to the forced sacking of the previous Government. It was circulated for discussion and comment by members of both Houses. Nothing has been heard of the attitude of new members of this Parliament to the proposed new committee. Yet they are blindly rushing into supporting this proposed expenditure committee. It is pre-emptive because when it is passed the expenditure committee will be established without the final report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System having been taken into consideration, let alone the interim report which has been published. 
Irrespective of the fact that during our inquiries overseas, especially in relation to the United Kingdom House of Commons Expenditure Committee, we found that expenditure committees are not effective- earlier speakers have remarked on that- the Prime Minister is youthfully obsessed with forming an expenditure committee. Like the succession of repudiated election promises of the Prime Minister and his Government, the motion is another repudiation of an undertaking given by the Prime Minister. In this chamber on 16 March 1976- reported at page 635 of  Hansard- the  Prime Minister, when speaking to the motion to re-establish the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System, said: 
I hope that the Joint Committee will not believe that the Government is pre-empting its work if I say that the Government very much hopes that an Estimates Committee of the House of Representatives will be established before the end of the autumn sittings. The broad purpose of this committee would be to consider how, if at all, the policies implied in the figures of expenditure and in the Estimates may be carried out more economically. The Government will also introduce resolutions to establish a number of other committees, pending final decisions on the future of the committee structure, decisions which I hope will be based on the report of the committee. 
That was a clear and unequivocal undertaking by the Prime Minister that any committee established before the Joint Committee's report would be subject to review after that report had been presented to this House. 
The motion is for the formation of a continuing expenditure committee, irrespective of the recommendations of the Joint Committee. That is a deliberate repudiation of the Prime Minister's undertaking on 16 March. I do not believe the interests of the Parliament and of the Australian people will be best served by establishing an  ad hoc  expenditure committee, without taking into consideration how that committee will supplement and co-ordinate with the activities of all other committees of both houses. There is a very great need for a more detailed and analytical examination by the Parliament of the proposed expenditure by the Government of the day. The question is how that examination can be carried out most effectively and most efficiently. I think all honourable members would agree with the Prime Minister's statement in his speech of 8 April when he said: 
It is fundamental to an effective system of representative government that the people's representatives should be able adequately to supervise and review the activities of government administration. The Parliament should be able to subject policy, legislation and administration to close and effective scrutiny. 
The Public Accounts Committee Act of 195 1 established the Public Accounts Committee as a watch-dog committee to scrutinise past expenditure of the government. It has performed that task well and its members over the years have been members who have been prepared to go into the fine detail of accounting and analysis which is necessary in order properly to examine departmental estimates. 
During its 25 years of existence the Public Accounts Committee has demonstrated a willingness and a capacity to do this sort of work well. The Public Accounts Committee is the obvious committee to carry out the role of scrutiny of estimates and concurrent scrutiny of policy priorities allocated by government departments and the Treasury. The Senate Estimates Committees set up in more recent years also have performed well, despite the fact that they would have performed better with greater staff back-up. The Prime Minister has referred to the expenditure committees of the United Kingdom as being effective. From my observations, they are not. They suffer from the same problem, namely, that there are few honourable members who are prepared to give departmental estimates the close detailed financial analysis which is necessary if an effective scrutiny is to be achieved. I am afraid that that is what will happen again in this House. 
Furthermore, it is a fact of political life that there are few members of the Parliament who are prepared to argue against expenditure in their own electorates or constituencies. That has been well borne out by history. The National Country Party's attitude to Telecom Australia is an excellent example. I am sure that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who is sitting at the table would nod in agreement with me. I believe that the most effective scrutiny of proposed and past expenditude by government can be achieved by implementing recommendations 5, 6 and 7 in the interim report of the Joint Committee on the Par.liamentary Committee System. Recommendation 5 states: 
It is recommended that a new Public Accounts Committee be appointed, consisting of members of the House of Representatives only. 
It further recommends: 
The Public Accounts Committee consist of 1 5 members. 
That number is identical with what has been suggested for the proposed Expenditure Committee. Paragraph (c) of recommendation 5 refers to the widening of the terms of reference of the Public Accounts Committee and the addition of the power to consider the implementation of policy aspects of the expenditure of government departments, statutory authorities and so on. Recommendation 6 states: 
It is recommended that the practice of the Senate of committing the estimates of government departments and statutory authorities which are contained in major Appropriation Bills to estimates committees be continued. 
It goes on to state:  . . . that the estimates committees be provided with adequate research and support staff to enable thorough scrutiny of the government 's expenditure proposals. 
To my knowledge, the lack of support staff has been the only weakness of the Senate Estimates Committees. Recommendation 7 states: 
It is recommended that a set of functional standing committees be appointed in both Houses and that each committee have a clearly specified jurisdiction which corresponds to a specific area of activity of government or to a specified number of government departments and instrumentalities. 
I believe that those recommendations cover what is intended for the Expenditure Committee, except that the Committee appears to be set up in isolation, without regard to the functions of the other committees. 
In planning any system of committees consideration must be given to the respective numbers of members and senators, so that there may be a balancing out of the work load in order that the committee members may be able to carry out their duties effectively. We have heard that it is common for committees of this House not to be able to obtain a quorum. This is another reason why this Committee should not be set up in isolation, thus pre-empting any sensible coordination of a complete system of committees. An expanded Public Accounts Committee alongside strengthened Senate Estimates Committees would provide the effective financial scrutiny of government expenditure to which the public is entitled. The Prime Minister has said: 
But the very fact of the existence of the Committee -  that is the Expenditure Committee-  and the lack of knowledge of the area which the Committee will investigate next will have its own salutary effect. 
The same may be said of the existing Public Accounts Committee. As one who has served for several years on the Public Accounts Committee, I suppose that there is some truth in the Prime Minister's statement- but only an element of truth, having in mind the demeanour of witnesses and the quality of some of the submissions that have been put to the Public Accounts Committee in the past. 
Historically, most members of this House have never taken the opportunity that the Budget Estimates debates offer to analyse proposed expenditure. There is no reason to think that that attitude is likely to change. Paragraph 1 (d) of the motion before the House provides for the proposed Committee to 'inquire into and report on any question in connection with public expenditure which is referred to it by this House '. That power has always existed in section 8 (d) of the Public Accounts Committee Act, which reads as follows: 
to inquire into any question in connection with the public accounts which is referred to it by either House of the Parliament, and to report to that House upon that question . . . 
From the time of the formation of the Public Accounts Committee under a conservative government until it went out of office in 1972 not one single matter was referred to the Public Accounts Committee by the Parliament. I doubt that there will ever be a reference under paragraph 1 (d) of the motion by this conservative Government to the proposed Committee. It is a blanket power which was never utilised by those who now propose this motion. It should have been used. 
Paragraph 1 (b) of the motion empowers the Committee to 'consider how, if at all, policies implied in the figures of expenditure and in the estimates may be carried out more economically'. Paragraph 1 (c) empowers the Committee to 'examine the relationship between the costs and benefits of implementing government programs'. I suspect that many honourable members may see paragraphs 1 (b) and 1 (c) as providing an opportunity to examine government policy as well as the efficiency of the implementation of government policy. Quite clearly, however, the operational guidelines attached to the Prime Minister's speech of 8 April state: 
The Committee should take government policies as given and confine its investigation to the effective and economical implementation of such policies and matters related to the formation of estimates of expenditure. 
The prime objective of any financial scrutiny of public expenditure is to ensure that public funds are used efficiently in the implementation of government programs. The Auditor-General,  Mr Craik,  has drawn attention on a number of occasions to the need to examine the efficiency of the manner of government expenditure as well as simply to carry out an accountancy audit of expenditure. Nowhere in the motion does the word 'efficiency' appear, but it has to be the primary objective in any examination of public expenditure, past or proposed. The people are entitled to value for the money which they pay to governments. I would have thought that the Auditor-General's comments would have been considered before any impromptu move such as the establishment of this Expenditure Committee was made. 
Another serious shortcoming is the long time scale in which the Expenditure Committee is planned to operate. The Prime Minister has stated his expectation that it may take several years for the Committee to cover in its reports all areas of government activity. This, in effect, means a spot check of government instruments and agencies, not the speedy and complete analysis of aU government expenditure and estimates that is essential. It is deliberate misrepresentation to speak of the urgent need to examine the economical implementation of government programs by an Expenditure Committee if that examination will take several years to carry out. 
In summary, with the establishment of this Committee we will have 15 members of the House of Representatives on the Expenditure Committee, we will have 6 Senate Estimates Committees and we will have the Public Accounts Committee comprising 7 members of the House of Representatives and 3 Senatorseach committee with a secretariat and staff support, each calling for submissions from departments and others, each requiring substantial time from honourable members and honourable senators and aU doing broadly the same thing. The pre-emptive manner of establishing this Expenditure Committee in isolation from the current overall review of the parliamentary committee system is a first-rate example of ad hockery, of personal extravagance by the Prime Minister and of how not to achieve an efficient implementation of government and parliamentary initiatives. It will mean an  ad hoc  expansion of the bureaucracy, and financial waste. 
The action of the Prime Minister in ramming through the establishment of this expenditure committee without regard to its relationships to other committees, without waiting for the final report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System, is pre-emptive and likely to operate against the achievement of the close, effective scrutiny of proposed and past government expenditure that is so necessary. Additionally it is likely to result in duplication, even triplication, of the work of departments in preparing submissions and of committee staff. Its premature establishment in itself is an extravagance and in reality an indulgence of the Prime Minister. I hope that even at this late stage the Prime Minister will defer the appointment of this committee until the final report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System is tabled. Consideration can then be given to the total parliamentary committee system and how best the scrutiny that the Parliament and the Prime Minister seek to carry out can be achieved. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) On what dates, for what purposes and to what countries has  Mr Richard  Cobden made visits since he commenced his employment with the Australian National Gallery. 
What was the amount of the fares and allowances paid in respect of each of his visits overseas. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 303, what was the quantity of each variety of wine purchased and transported in the VIP aircraft from Mt Gambier on 1 1 March 1976. 
What was the name and address of the supplier. 
When and by whom was it ordered. 
What was the total value of wines supplied on 1 1 March 1976. 
How and by whom was the wine transported to Mt Gambier from the supplier's warehouse. 
Who has paid, or will pay, the supplier for the wines supplied. were circulated: 
Was payment made in cash. 
For what period will the wines purchased suffice. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did any VIP aircraft travel between Australia and Papua New Guinea in April 1975. 
2 ) If so, what passengers did the aircraft carry, and where did the aircraft pick up and deliver those passengers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
On what occasions, and in what capacities has he made official visits to Singapore since his election to the Australian Parliament. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) During the period the Great Depression in the 1930s, were single females aged 16 years and over entitled to any form of unemployment assistance. 
If so, what was the level of assistance, and how did it compare with the level of assistance to single males of the same age group. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the present contract for the Pink Pages advertising of the 1976 New South Wales Telephone Directory held by the firm of Edward H. O'Brien; if not, by whom is this contract held. 
Is the premium payable to Telecom Australia under the terms of the present contract expressed as a percentage of the income received by the company holding the contract, or was there a flat fee tendered for the period of the contract. 
Who determines the rates charged to advertisers in the Pink Pages. 
What are the current rates being charged to advertisers. 
What was, oris, the closing date for advertising entries in the 1976 Pink Pages. 
Must all advertisements be pre-paid at time of lodgement;  if so, who retains those  funds pending publication of the Pink Pages. 
What terms and conditions for credit are available to advertisers in the Pink Pages. 
I address my question to the Minister for Transport and refer to the engine failure suffered by a DC9 aircraft operated by Ansett Airlines of Australia during take-off at Cairns on 2 May 1976 and to reports of a statement by the Cairns airport fire officer that only the quick thinking of the aircraft's captain averted what could have been a major disaster. I ask: Will the Minister say whether the engine failure was due to metal fatigue; when was the engine installed in the aircraft; and how many hours had the engine accumulated since installation? 
-I thought that honourable members opposite were interested in saving people's lives. Further, I ask: How many hours does the Department of Transport allow a DC9 engine to accumulate before being compulsorily removed for overhaul - 
-Why cannot the Minister answer for himself? Finally, is it a fact that Ansett Airlines of Australia have applied for an extension of time between overhauls? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to Questions Nos 3 1 and 249. what was the name, designation and salary of each of the 5 officials who accompanied the Governor-General. 
What were the places visited and the nature of the Governor-General's official engagements during (a) the 18 days spent in Great Britain. ( b ) the 17 days spent in France. 
c ) the 4 days spent in Hong Kong and ( d ) the 3 days spent in Italy. 
What was the duration of each of the official engagements. 
What was the total cost of the trip and, in particular, the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation, (c) car hire and 
gifts. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System I bring up the final report of the Committee entitled  A New Parliamentary Committee System.  Copies will be available for general distribution in the near future. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. He will be aware of the pending dismissal of 260 railway employees in South Australia. Will he take urgent action to ensure continuity of employment for the men concerned in accordance with his election pledge of last November to assist the States to modernise and rationalise their rail systems? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1) Do any provisions exist in the Northern Territory Acceptance Act for the closure of the North Australia Railway or any portion thereof without some alternative form of rail link being provided? 
Is the sanction of the South Australian Government necessary before any variation can be made to the agreement to provide a railway from Port Darwin to a point on the northern boundary of South Australia proper, so as to connect eventually with the Trans-continental Railway? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Northern Territory. I direct his attention to the recent announcement by the Minister for Transport that the North Australia Railway line is to close on 26 June and that 150 employees will be retrenched, and to his responsibilities under the Northern Territory Acceptance Act. 
-Of course I am reading it. I am going to have it incorporated in  Hansard  so you will be able to read it. It concerns 150 people in the Northern Territory. You may be interested. Is it a fact that under the terms of the Act the agreement of the South Australian Government is necessary before any variation can be made to the agreement to provide a railway from port Darwin to a point on the northern boundary of South Australia proper to connect eventually with the trans-continental railway? What action will be taken -  (National Country Party members interjecting) 
-If members of the National Country Party - 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1) In respect of the Stuart Highway between Darwin and Larrimah, (a) what has been the capital outlay, including new diversions and bridges, (b) what was the cost of total road maintenance and (c) what was the cost of normal and regular maintenance during the last 3 years. 
What is the proposed expenditure on (a) capital outlays, including new diversions and bridges and (b) normal and regular maintenance during the next 3 years. 
What is the cost per annum of policing the roadway in respect of weighbridge operators, and of overloaded vehicles and speeding. 
-The purpose of this Bill is to repeal the Road Safety Standards Authority Act 1 975 which provided for the establishment of an independent statutory authority to spearhead a major drive on road safety in Australia. It was an initiative taken by the previous Government which had been long overdue and which was welcomed by everyone concerned with road safety matters. Even the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  welcomed the establishment of the road safety and standards authority just over a year ago. It seems obvious now that the Minister was speaking with his tongue in his cheek when he applauded the establishment of the authority. Reduction in the carnage on our roads is a major priority of the Australian Labor Party. The Opposition views this legislation as a measure that will result in the loss of additional Australian lives on our roads. It is another example of redirection of expenditure by this Government under its smokescreen of expenditure reductions. The Opposition opposes the Bill. Since the Minister assumed office one central theme has become clear in his actions. He is prepared repeatedly to risk human lives to divert funds to the sectional interests which his Government represents, to risk human lives and cause heartbreak and disaster to thousands of Australian families to obtain funds to pay the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  $5,000 per annum as an inequitable superphosphate bounty. But then this is a pro-farmer, anti-city government. Sheep, cows, pigs and horses rate a higher priority than urban Australians with this Government. 
We witnessed recently the increased hazard to air travellers that arose out of the cancellation of the regular monthly issue of airworthiness directives by the Department of Transport, because of the Government's freeze on the Department's finances. Did the Minister object? No, the Minister did not object. He supported the freeze. We witnessed the transfer of $ 13.2m away from the national highways program and urban local roads to rural arterial and rural local roads. The bulk of that money went to the Minister's own State and it will result in additional lives being lost on urban roads and national highways. It was a brutal exercise in buying rural votes at the expense of the lives of urban motorists and causing distress to urban families. 
Now we witness the abolition of the Road Safety and Standards Authority to save a miserly $700,000 in the current year, a sum which represents 0.003 per cent of the total Budget outlays. The families of the air travellers, motorists and road passengers whose lives are to be risked unnecessarily by the actions of this Minister and his Government should know of his callousness. This legislation is typical of the retrogressive regime under which this country is now labouring. It can be described only as centralist and reactionary. I am astounded that a government, even as reactionary as the present one, could treat motorists' lives with such contempt. Road safety is one of the most distressing problems currently facing our society, with thousands of Australians dying every year, and countless others being injured and maimed for life. Yet here we have a government actively demolishing one of the most important means whereby that problem can be efficiently and thoroughly analysed. 
The Minister glibly says that the return of the Authority to the fold of his department is only a cost saving measure and that the work of road safety will be maintained. But I ask: 'Will it?' How can that possibly be? Of course, the answer is that it cannot be maintained. To explain that it is worth looking at the rationale behind the establishment of a national authority in the first place. Basically, the reasons were ones of enlightenment, progress and concern for the welfare of our fellow man- sympathies which the present reactionary forces opposite only glimpsed uncomprehendingly in the previous 3 years. They do not realise that Australia is now an homogenous nation with common problems which once did not exist. As is evident from their federalism policy, they still believe that Australia is a rough conglomerate of 6 independent colonies which should be left to follow their own paths regardless of the national interest. Honourable members opposite are turning back the road safety clock. Unfortunately many more Australians will die on our roads before the folly of the present Bill is realised. 
The establishment of the Road Safety and Standards Authority was widely acclaimed throughout Australia as a tremendous breakthrough. One of the greatest difficulties in the research and development of road safety standards was the fragmentation of authority between municipal and State bodies, with only the most minute assistance from the national Government. Obviously such fragmentation had to be overcome, and naturally enough the initiative was taken by the newly elected Labor Government. The Authority was established in such a way that it could independently scrutinise and analyse all the associated problems of road safety in Australia. The Authority was to have its own facilities and staff and, independent of the motor industry, was to develop standards of safety for vehicles, standards of highway engineering, of traffic management and of town planning policies. It was to develop a uniform traffic code and, most importantly of all, it was to collect and disseminate research and information. While ever the Authority existed there was at least some guarantee that such work would be pursued uninterrupted. But what are we faced with now? At best we are faced with an emasculated group of disillusioned people forced back within the constraints of the bureaucracy and this phoney new federalism. Gone is the reassurance that something was being done by Government and, as we will no doubt see, we will have instead the 6 States again going it alone in the old, totally unco-ordinated fashion of the past. 
Let us return to examine further the merits of an independent authority. It is clear that had road transport been of any importance late last century our Constitution may have given the Federal Parliament the same powers as it did over navigation and shipping. Yet, incredibly enough, after 76 years of the automobile we have a system of horse and buggy arrangements for the supervision of road safety. What is needed is national action and national co-operation coordinated by experts who can give the lead. How many learned and expert groups have to recommend such initiative before action is taken? This is not to say that such co-operation is totally nonexistent for, as we all know, there are many examples in Australia of uniformity having been achieved. What I am asking though is: Just how efficient is that co-operation and how may it be improved? It is true that we have the Australian Transport Advisory Council. We have had established, though long overdue, the Australian design rules. We also have a national road traffic code and other codes and standards attempting to regulate and improve upon road safety. It is piecemeal and painfully slow. Surely in these times with the expertise available it should not be too difficult to do better. 
Road safety is a highly complex problem and it will never be improved by disjointed measures such as these. They are a start but we have a long way to go for I am afraid that even on the fundamental requirements of data collection our degree of standardisation is appalling. I need only cite as an example the difficulty being experienced in having police accident reports standardised. What is needed is a focal point for our work on road safety. We need a body with the power, influence, expertise and stature to be able to gather in all the reins and make all the agencies progress in a proper direction, free of political patronage. We are already many years behind in our research and consequently even further behind in our road safety standards. We need a body which can conduct research and gather information without interference, one which can formulate recommendations for remedial action on a national basis. Moreover, we need a body which can defend and advertise its activities free from political and other influences. We need a body accessible and responsive to the public. Regrettably, all these advantages are now being sacrificed. It is absolutely essential for the road safety of Australia that there be a national body with some bite, not a group of aimless, unco-ordinated bureaucracies working in circles without cohesion of any kind. 
Let us look at the experience overseas, which cannot responsibly be ignored. For example, in the United States of America- a federation quite similar to ours- there is a National Traffic Act and a National Motor Vehicle Safety Act. What is more, they have already been in operation for over 10 years. By those Acts there was set up a National Highways Safety Bureau answerable to the equivalent of a federal Minister. That body, with its independence, is free to recruit people with all the necessary expertise and skills, free of the cumbersome mediocrity of the public service system. Automatically it was a body of some stature, respected by all, including the motor vehicle manufacturers who, let us face it, comply only because they have to comply. The difference in safety standards of our own vehicles and those of the more advanced countries where legislative compulsion exists is all too obvious. 
So there we have it. The Authority was a national body capable of being awed and respected, a body which the States eventually would greatly appreciate as they came to learn the advantages of unity and now a body deprived of its independence, back in the bureaucracy where it will be choked and stultified by the whim and fancy of the Minister and financially crippled by his colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  The Minister admits so much himself. He says that it is simply a matter of economy. I ask: Have he and his advisers stopped for one moment to consider the real economics of the matter? For example, what value do they place upon the lives of all those whose blood will be spilt as an indirect result of inadequate protective measures? What value do they place upon the savings created by efficient use of time and effort in the establishment of road safety standards? Obviously the answer is none or, at best, a value lower than that of the sheep, pigs, goats and cows which I mentioned earlier. I very much regret that in this Bill we are witnessing the absolutely senseless result of mindless pennypinching. I wish to reassure the people of Australia that the Opposition considers that Australian lives are worthy of such an investment, even if the Liberal Party and the National Country Party do not. It is so patently obvious that we have returned to the bad old days of stopgap ad hocery which, with the exception of the years 1972-1975 has plagued the progress of this country. 
Yet another progressive Labor initiative is to be destroyed by this Government and by this Bill which, I regret to say, is of some insult to this 
House. I say this because it was the Select Committee on Road Safety of this House under the chairmanship of my colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  which recommended the establishment of an autonomous body. This recommendation was not made lightly. As honourable members might recall, the report of that Committee was one of unanimity and in fact also received the blessing of the Minister for Transport, who is at the table. I shall quote his words as they appear in  Hansard  of 15 April 1975. He said: 
I am delighted that the Bill has the support of the Parliament and indeed, of the House of Representatives Select Committee . . . 
Again he said: 
This Bill is welcomed by the Opposition. It flows out of work that commenced under the last Liberal-Country Parry Government. 
So what is it that we have before us this afternoon? It seems that at last we have a public admission by the Minister that we have presently a government worse than the one before in which he also had the dubious pleasure of serving. It is difficult to imagine that actually being possible, but at least the former Liberal-Country Party Government was concerned to some extent with the safety of our citizens. I think it is appropriate to bring to your attention,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  a politician's prayer that was shown to me at the weekend. It was displayed in the residence of one of our New South Wales ex-ministers. If I can recall it correctly, it said: 
Oh Lord, help me to make my words gracious today for tomorrow I may have to eat them. 
I think that is rather an appropriate prayer to bring to the Minister's attention in this debate. 
They are the words of one of the honourable member's colleagues. The recent report,  Vehicle Inspection Results 1975,  issued by the Australian Automobile Association emphasised the urgent need for a strong, independent authority, free of political and industrial patronage to oversee vehicle design and performance. 
The  Canberra Times  editorial of 26 May was aptly timed and aptly titled  A Blow to Road Safety.  Its content was pertinent to this Bill. I am confident that it reflected the mass of opinion of road users. It stated: 
The reasons given by the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  for the abolition of the Road Safety and Standards Authority established last year by the Labor Government betray a failure on his part to understand the function of the authority. The small saving in administrative costs, the avoiding of 'unnecessary duplication', the more efficient use of staff are quite irrelevant to the concept that led to the creation of the authority. It was an essential part of this concept as Labor understood it, and as it was further developed at a Transport conference held in Canberra this month, that the investigation of major transport accidents be conducted by u body independent of departmental constraints, that would make its findings public, and report directly to Parliament. The authority set up by Labor did not go as far as that but it was autonomous and responsible only to Parliament through the Minister for Transport. Under the stimulus of pressures like those which led to the holding of the Canberra conference it would probably have developed into a body like the United States National Transportation Safety Board, which the conference held up as a model for Australia. 
The editorial went on to say: 
One of the greatest advantages of having an autonomous statutory body in the field of transport safety would be its power to publicly report its findings and thus to give the people essential information it would not get otherwise. Maximum publicity on the causes of accidents, whether these concern the manufacturers, the roads or the road users and the drivers, is a necessary step to effective control of the havoc wrought by the motor vehicle. 
Until the facts prove the contrary, the present Government's decision to abolish the authority must be regarded as a turning back of the clock. 
Let me also quote from a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 24 May. Again it is aptly titled  Need for a safety body 'highlighted'. 
It read: 
The survey of new cars by the Australian Automobile Association last week highlighted the need for an independent organisation to investigate the safety of all forms of transport, it was claimed yesterday. 

 Mr G. A. (Peter) Lloyd, the managing director of Stack and Co., car distributors, and a prominent pilot, said that if such an organisation had been set up earlier 'the causes of many accidents would have been sheeted home to the car manufacturers years ago'. 
An example of the effectiveness of an independent authority can be seen in the success and wide acceptance of the Bureau of Roads established under the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads Act 1964. This Bureau has achieved success because it gained acceptance and creditibility as an independent, expert nongovernment body by other governments, agencies, organisations and interested parties. But I fear also that it is about to lose its independence and to be returned to the octopus-like embrace of the Department of Transport. 
The Minister's scant 5-minute speech on this Bill indicates the scant regard his Government now holds for road safety and saving Australian lives. If the House was discussing the lives of cattle he would wax lyrical and long. But 'cattle before people' is apparently the catch-cry of this Government. 
The barnyard door is open again over there. The Minister, in his second reading speech, said that the key to the whole situation was the efficient use of staff. The Road Safety and Standards Authority would have had a full-time  chairman  and two part-time commissioners plus a staff of two hundred. Its annual cost in terms of total budget outlays would have been minimal. The savings it could have achieved in terms of human lives are incalculable. This corrupt Government that came to office as a result of the grand conspiracy, the sordid events of which  Mr Wiley  Fancher and  Mr Richard  Todd are now revealing for public examination, has a paranoid fear of independent authorities and commissions. Why? It is because independent authorities and commissions report publicly and because they remove the opportunity for political pork-barrelling. In this Bill, pork-barrelling at the expense of human lives is in reality the exercise being undertaken by the Government. Independent committees and commissions always recommend action- things to be done that involve expenditure and social reforms that incur responsibility; whereas departmental sections report to department secretaries and to Ministers in private and their reports are secret. Such is the report of the Medibank Review Committee which the Prime Minister refuses to release to the community or to the Parliament. 
This conservative Government, in accord with past performance, is opting out of its proper responsibilities in respect of road saferty as it is opting out of so many other of its responsibilities under its so-called federalism policy which I believe should more properly be labelled 'colonialism policy'. In turning back the clock this conservative Government is turning its back on social responsibilities that successive federal governments, irrespective of political complexion, have seen fit to support since Federation. Honourable members opposite ignore the fact that people set up governments because they expect governments to solve problems they cannot solve themselves. Road carnage is one of those problems. No matter how hard the Prime Minister tries to pretend he is Australia's George Washington, the Australian voters will remember his growing list of repudiated election promises and Australian road users will recall the folly of this Bill. Governments cannot and should not opt out of their social responsibilities hoping that private enterprise will take up the load because private enterprise's objective is profit, not social reform. 
-I mean social reform. If the honourable member is not concerned about saving people's lives he should stand up and say so. It is painfully obvious to everyone that road safety is a matter of great national concern. It has been estimated that the annual cost in monetary terms exceeds $1 billion, that is, about 2 per cent of the gross national product. As well, in the 10 years to 1975 it cost the lives of 35 000 Australians, while in 1974-75 90 000 Australians were injured, many of them to the point of being permanent invalids. In the 12 months to April 1976, 3618 deaths occurred on our roads. The tragedy and suffering this causes reaches everyone in our community at some stage or other. 1 believe it behoves every government, of whatever political complexion to do its utmost to ensure that this suffering is minimised. Moreover, I believe that money spent on this will never be wasted and unfortunately will always be insufficient. I only hope that the responsibility for this incredible piece of legislation is sheeted home to this callous Government, to this callous Minister, before many more Australian lives are aimlessly destroyed, before many more Australians are maimed. 
Earlier this afternoon we saw the tabling of the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety. I hope that in the debate that is to follow the tabling of that report some of the recommendations contained in it will be brought to the attention of the chamber. As I recall them, one of the recommendations dealt with in the speech made by the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  called for greater cooperation between State and Federal governments, and that is the kind of co-operation that could best be encouraged by an independent statutory road safety and standards authority. The report mentioned the need for a complete rationalisation of the collection and distribution of road safety data. I mentioned that earlier in trying to get some kind of standardisation of police accident reports. I was also interested to hear the honourable member for Kennedy say that the Standing Committee on Road Safety will be closely vetting the operation of this Road Safety Bureau, which is the term I understand it is to be given, when it is withdrawn back into the octopus embrace of the Department of Transport. Obviously there is concern by members of the Committee- I think I assume properly by both Government and Opposition supportersthat the cause of road safety in this country would be best served by having an independent authority. 
I take the opportunity to say also that in line with the withdrawal of that authority back into the Department we have seen since this Government came to office what I choose to term an iron curtain of secrecy descend on the activities of the Department. It is almost criminal that reports that relate to human lives are being denied to members of this Parliament. I am thinking of the Bureau of Roads report for 1975. The report was tabled not so many weeks ago. Two copies were available in the Parliamentary Library for use by members. Admittedly I sought out the Minister for Transport and obtained a copy for myself, but it was a strange situation when ample copies of these reports were available in the State departments. There were ample copies there, but this Parliament was denied copies. Likewise with the Nimmo report- and I am sure the Tasmanian members who sit opposite are concerned about that report- copies were denied this Parliament when the report was tabled. Again information and public discussion on the recommendations was stifled. A similar position obtains in regard to the report of the inquiry into proposed extensions to the Brisbane airport. As the Opposition spokesman on transport I am still unable to obtain a copy of that report. All these things are being done under the smokescreen of economy. What is going on is a return to closed-shop government, a return to what I call the iron curtain of secrecy which is the normal way of operation for Liberal-Country Party governments, as their past record so clearly shows. 
At the same time a blitz has been conducted within the Department itself because information was supposed to have been given out to people who should not have had it. I do not know of any public evidence advanced to support that contention. There has been a security blitz on the members of the Department. There were threats to call in Commonwealth police to investigate officers of the Department. If that is not iron curtain secrecy I do not know what is. Obviously that sort of action must have an impact on the morale of the people within the Department. Quite properly the Minister referred to it in his second reading speech when he said:  . . . I am extremely anxious to maintain morale and team spirit which exist within that group when it is returned as part of the organisational structure of the Department. 
Quite clearly the Minister is concerned about the morale of people who are associated with road safety and those who are working within his Department. It has been a deplorable sequence of events that people should have been threatened with interview by the Commonwealth police about having given to somebody informationsuch as that contained in the reports I mentioned earlier- that ought properly be available to this Parliament. This Parliament and the community should not be denied information under the smokescreen of an economy drive. I draw attention again to the Bureau of Roads report which was readily available in the States but unavailable to the Australian Parliament. In conclusion I simply say, whilst the present Minister reflects in so many ways the actions - 
I am sure you will agree this is wonderful. I hope you will stand up and say that also. Whilst the present Minister reflects in so many ways the actions of his predecessor- I do not think he minds my referring to him as Charlie Nixon because I thought that was rather a compliment to him- I am quite sure that his predecessor the honourable member for Newcastle,  Mr Charles  Jones, would not have brought in a Bill such as this. The Opposition opposes the Bill. 
-The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act which was first passed by this Parliament in 1959. It is a Bill which is supported in principle by the Opposition. The original Act of 1959 which is now being amended had several purposes, one of which was to approve the ratification of and give effect to the Hague Protocol amending the Warsaw Convention. That Convention of 1929 established uniform international rules governing the liability of international air carriers to passengers in respect of death or injury and loss of baggage, and to consignors of air cargo. Australia has been a party to the Convention since 1935 and since that time has given effect to its requirements by legislation of this Parliament. Article 17 of the Warsaw Convention provides that the carrier is liable for damage sustained in the event of death or bodily injury suffered by a passenger if the damage took place on board the aircraft or in the course of any of the operations embarking or disembarking. This is a very strict rule of liability and, apart from the very narrow defence available to the carrier under Article 20, it is almost absolute liability. Article 20 in fact provides that a carrier is not liable if he and his agents have taken all necessary measures to avoid the damage, or it was impossible for him to take such measures. The onus of proof in this situation is on the carrier and in normal circumstances it would be quite a difficult thing to prove. The Act, however, deprives operators of domestic services of this possible escape. The liability is therefore quite absolute. 
Article 21 further provides for contributory negligence where, for example, a passenger fails to fasten his seat belt. This article is given effect by section 16 of the original Act and provides that a court shall first determine the damages that would have been recoverable if there were no limit and there had been no contributory negligence. The damages are then reduced to a level the court thinks just and equitable. The Act we are amending now applies the terms of the Warsaw Convention and the Hague Protocol, with certain modifications to suit our own legal system, to Australian domestic airlines. It prevents those airlines from being able to contract out of liability and makes them liable for proven damages up to a limit set from time to time, the limit now being proposed being $45,000. The proposed limit is approximately the same as the international figure, representing the coverage required by the average air traveller. Whether this is an adequate basis for such a calculation and whether that sum is sufficiently high is another matter, to which I now come. 
The Warsaw Convention is totally silent on the matters to be taken into account in assessing damages resulting from death or injury, the result being that domestic law applies. It is this area of law which is developing quickly and which has become much more highly refined since the original Act was passed. Basically the common law principle is that damages with respect to death are restricted to net pecuniary loss, but this is something which has undergone considerable change. The Act covers some of these changes, such as the loss of consortium where a spouse is lost, or, in the case of children, the further loss of a parent's care and guidance; but what allowance does it make for the multitude of other cases where an enormous range of criteria come into play? For example, what about compensation for pain and suffering for those injured? What about the cost of medical care for those injured? As honourable members will be aware, damages awarded to accident victims by our courts quite frequently exceed the limit of $45,000 to be set by this Bill. The cost of medical care is enormous, especially where the victim has been so seriously injured that care beyond that available from normal health provisions will be essential. What is more, that cost is escalating enormously and the more one thinks about the level of compensation necessary the more inadequate the sum of $45,000 seems. 
It is indeed a great pity that this upper limit has been fixed so broadly, and honourable members may care to know that it is in this area that the Warsaw Convention has been ignored. Under the Act there is only the same limited liability, regardless of the carrier's negligence or degree of negligence. Article 25 of the Warsaw Convention clearly states that such limited liability shall not apply 'if it is proved that the damage resulted from an act or omission of the carrier, his servants or agents, done with intent to cause damage or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result'. The exclusion of this provision is a severe limitation; for it, in effect, means that, irrespective of intent and irrespective of the knowledge or the recklessness of the operator, there shall be no more liability on the carrier than if the most unforeseen accident occurred. The carrier is still to be liable only for $45,000, regardless of the standard of care he has exercised. Australia's record in the air is an enviable one, and it is so easy for the more thoughtless among us to scoff. 
If one really considers this matter carefully, it is wise and prudent to provide adequately for even the more extreme circumstances. I fear that to adopt a contrary attitude is the ultimate in complacency. What is so tragic is that we have the power to provide for such an eventuality and we are not prepared to use it, simply for the sake of convenience and simplicity. I believe that the liability of carriers in this situation ought to be unlimited so that those who have suffered as a result of negligence can be compensated properly. International air travellers have that protection. Australia has an incredibly good air safety record, but with larger aircraft that record could easily be shattered. 
Another anomaly with respect to the limitation of liability is that in respect of other forms of transport, such as road transport, there is greater scope for proper compensation. If, for example, a person is injured on the roads, that person can secure whatever damages are necessary to compensate him or her, where the party causing the injury has been negligent and where the injuries can be represented in money terms. However, if one travels by air the limit of compensation is by this Act to be $45,000. That is an incredible anomaly and one which has been referred to in the Parliament every time this legislation has been debated. The total amount of compensation available to a victim 's relatives who suffer as a result of a person's injury or death is limited to a share of $45,000. I am sure everyone would agree that such an amount would not go very far these days. One could visualise the medical and hospital expenses involved in the event of a person being injured in an aircraft accident and becoming a quadriplegic. One could think of other instances where injuries could result in long periods of nursing care. Road accident injuries can be properly compensated for, but if one is injured on an aircraft it is proposed that the total limit of compensation, including compensation for medical expenses, will be $45,000. 
These anomalies go still further. For example, those injured at work or while engaged on any other activity are not limited in the amount they can claim. I can see no logical reason, on the grounds of equity or expense, for such an anomaly continuing to exist in respect of air travellers. I do not see why air travellers should be singled out for such restrictive attention which, in effect, is also a protection to airline operators. The original Act was obviously a compromise with air carriers who internally could opt out so easily from all liability. But those days of  laissezfaire,  I am glad to say, have long since passed and there should be no dispute as to the rights and duties of air operators adequately to insure their passengers against all eventualities. Surely in this day and age the risks of travelling by air should not have to be greater than those taken when travelling by other means. That is the situation which this legislation still enforces upon us. I do not mean the physical risk of travelling in an aircraft compared with travelling in a car. I mean the different levels of compensation which can be obtained by a person who is unfortunately injured in travel by air as compared with travel by car. When one compares some of the sums reportedly awarded in third party motor vehicle cases with the sums provided in this legislation, one can readily see the inadequacy of the amount proposed by this Bill. 
One of the reasons advanced when the principal Act was passed was that by setting an upper limit of liability victims were benevolently being discouraged from pursuing expensive and uncertain law suits for damages in an area in which proof was exceedingly difficult. 
-I do not want to be partisan.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  should I refrain from mentioning names? 
I try to be even handed. I will start again for the edification of the Government Whip. One of the reasons advanced when the principal Act was passed was that by setting an upper limit of liability victims were benevolently being discouraged from pursuing expensive and uncertain law suits for damages in an area in which proof was exceedingly difficult. Once again, we have advanced a long way since 1959, especially in aircraft accident investigations. I believe that air travel these days is not the novelty that it was in 1 959. 1 do not think the reservations held by many people about travelling by air are as great as they were in 1 959. In other words, it is a far more readily acceptable form of transport. As such, we ought to be looking at levels of compensation on a broad plane rather than have discrepancies between the levels of compensation available in respect of each method of travel. 
Regulations on flight control, loading and, most importantly, maintenance and compliance with safety standards are quite strict. If these are supervised and enforced as they ought to be, with the controlling authority keeping a close check on such vital factors as engine maintenance by means of regular inspection- I shall not refer to the airline that was mentioned by the Government Whip earlier- it is no longer so uncertain. It is not necessary that accidents requiring compensation should happen only in the air. Accidents causing severe injury and death could just as easily happen while passengers are embarking or disembarking. Where does the difficulty of proof lie there? The aircraft may not have crashed. Because of the Act, there is still limited liability. Surely a person is entitled to make his or her own decision as to whether he or she wants to sue for damages in excess of the limit. Why should not such people have the choice? Why should they be compelled to accept the limit being established in this legislation? 
Quite clearly the limit set in the Bill is unfairly based. Although we do not wish to oppose the legislation  in toto  I do sincerely urge the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)-  I understand his absence from the chamber- to look carefully at the criticisms I have made. I hope he can recognise the absurdity in the situation in which a simple injury such as a broken limb can be compensated by, say, $1,000, but a serious injury involving a permanent disability can be only partly compensated because of the proposed limit of $45,000. Despite the fact that this Bill raises the limit, the absurdity persists. 
Let me now look elsewhere at policy in regard to this limit upon liability. Take the United States, for example. It is the leader in world civil aviation matters. The United States has always been opposed to the limits set by the Warsaw Convention and The Hague Protocol. It was because of this dissatisfaction that the United States, certain European governments and the International Air Transport Association worked out the Montreal Agreement by which carriers serving the United States accepted a liability limit of US$75,000. Yet in Australia we are still struggling to raise the limit in 1976 to $45,000. Qantas Airways Ltd complies with the United States conditions. One may well ask why, if Qantas can bear the burden and if the United States thinks such a level advisable, Australia should be so far behind. Are injuries sustained in domestic airline crashes less severe or less expensive than injuries sustained in crashes in other countries? That would seem to be the reasoning. 
I now pass to the second Bill in this debate, the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Government Liability) Amendment Bill. My only reference to the first part of the amendment in that Bill, in the change of name of the Act from Australian Government Liability to Commonwealth 
Government Liability, is to say that while I prefer the word 'Australian' and the implication 'Australian' I suppose I should congratulate the Government and the Minister on the use of that great socialist word 'Commonwealth'. The purpose of this Bill is to apply the substance of Part !Y of the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act to the carriage of passengers in aircraft operated by the Australian Government or a federal authority not covered by Part IV. Its principal application is to federal employees required to travel by air on duty and to persons travelling on Commonwealth duty in aircraft not operated by the Australian Government or a government. Like the previous Bill about which I have spoken, this Bill also seeks to amend the upper limit of liability of air carriers conveying Australian Government personnel to $45,000. For the reasons I have given on the previous Bill, this Bill is equally deficient and therefore subject to the same criticisms. I do not wish to elaborate further on this, but it is a matter of the gravest concern. I implore the Minister to reconsider the question of limited liability as a matter of some urgency. 
With relation to both these Bills, I would like to touch briefly upon the financial aspects of the new sums sought to be imposed upon the domestic carriers as insurance for passengers. To be quite plain, $45,000 is far too little. In no way does it take into account the changes in average weekly earnings which we have experienced in the past, nor does it take into account the rapid escalation in medical and other costs associated with accident claims. Since 1970 average earnings alone have doubled. Yet the increase in the amount to be insured is only 50 percent. In terms of wages alone, the upper limit, if we must have one, ought to be at least $67,000. 1 am relating that figure to the 1955 average weekly earnings and am stepping over the 1970 average weekly earnings. I ask the Minister whether he is aware of the costs involved in hospitalisation these days or whether he takes the attitude that there are not likely to be any survivors of an aircraft accident. The $45,000 is quite inadequate, and one can only wonder how many more years will be allowed to pass without any real increase being made in the limit of liability. 
At 31 December 1955 average weekly earnings were $35.42. The limit of liability was $15,000. By 31 December 1970 average weekly earnings had risen to $79.83, more than double, but the limit of liability was only doubled to $30,000 in the 1970 amending legislation. At 31 December 1975 average weekly earnings had risen to $158.30, almost a 100 per cent increase on the 1970 figure for average weekly earnings. 
However, if the 1955 average weekly earnings are taken as a base for calculating the limit of liability, this Bill should be increasing the limit to $67,000. There is a sound basis for arguing that the limit now being legislated for is substantially deficient. On 4 June 1970, the then Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  speaking to the 1970 amendment to the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act said, as reported at page 1980 of the Senate  Hansard: 
As the nominal average weekly earnings of adult males in Australia have approximately doubled since 1955, when the basis - 
I repeat, 'the basis'- for the existing limit was established, the Government proposes that the same change be made in this limit of liability, that is to say an increase from $ 1 5,000 to $30,000. This will cost the airlines some $250,000 per annum in additional insurance premiums. 
As I said earlier, if we continue to accept  Senator Cotton's  proposition- the conservative government of the time obviously accepted it- then the limit on liability of airlines should be raised to $67,000. It may well be that the Government has international arrangements in determining the limit of $45,000, but clearly the limit is quite inadequate. The only reference which the Minister made in his second reading speech to the basis for setting the new limit of $45,000 is in the last sentence of his speech which reads: 
The proposal now submitted for consideration by the Parliament is designed to update the Act by increasing the limit of liability to $45,000, thereby fixing a more appropriate level of compensation having regard to current international arrangements and current money value. 
The Australians who may be injured in airline crashes are the same Australians with the same obligations and responsibilities as those injured in road crashes. When we consider that 9 183 525 passenger flights were made in Australia in 1974 and that 83 per cent of people who travel more than 300 kilometres travel by air, it is essential that there be adequate protection for air travellers. I think it is appropriate at this stage to mention a letter sent to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  by the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations, Australian Capital Territory Division. I have here a copy of the letter. The Minister has given approval for it to be incorporated in Hansard. 
-I want to quote from the second paragraph of the letter which reads as follows: 
The Council believes the proposed increase to be insufficient in that it does not reflect the current money value or take into account the fact, as evidenced by the following table, that average earnings have more than doubled since 1970. 
There followed S tables of wage classifications. The letter continues: 
It is therefore submitted that the limit of liability should be increased to at least $60,000. Accordingly, the Council seeks an appropriate amendment to the Bills presently before Parliament. 
I feel that that is a very reasonable request from CAGEO. Having regard to the average weekly earning figures I have cited, on the basis set by  Senator Cotton  in the amendment of 1970, 1 believe that the request for $60,000 ought to be increased to $67,000. Naturally, a higher limit of liability would entail higher insurance premiums to the airlines. I am disappointed at the Minister's brief reference in his speech to the insurance costs involved. He states: 
The airlines and the respresentative organisation of the charter operators accept that it is appropriate to increase the limit of liability as now proposed, and they are prepared to pay the modest increase in insurance costs involved. 
One could conclude from his remarks that the increase in the limit is governed by the increased insurance costs involved to the airlines rather than by ensuring that the limit is set at a level that would properly provide for victims of an air accident. The premiums paid for aircraft insurance reflect the safety record of the airlines. Whilst there is little information given on insurance premiums and the cost in this Bill of insurance premiums, having in mind that  Senator Cotton  mentioned in 1970 that the additional cost would be $250,000, 1 think it is worth referring to a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 19 May 1976 by Ken McGregor. Let me quote a couple of paragraphs of it. The article deals with aircraft operational costs. Referring to a conference that had been held, the article says: 
It is comforting news to delegates that, while most of their airline costs, such as fuel and wages, are constantly spiralling, insurance premiums have been steadily becoming cheaper over the past 24 months worldwide. Indications are that this trend will continue. 
Competition for airline insurance business and improved standards of safety are put as 2 of the major factors behind this situation. 
As I said, we have no indication whatsoever of the costs involved to the airlines for the higher insurance premiums that would flow from a higher limit of liability. It is also pertinent to say at this stage that one must have regard to the factors involved in the safety record of airlines; factors such as aircraft engine maintenance, subframe maintenance and airframe maintenance. What I am particularly interested in- I have some questions on notice about this- is the criteria that are used in assessing the time periods for removal of aircraft engines from aircraft for the assessment of the performance of aircraft components. 
The community particularly ought to have greater knowledge of the practices followed by the airlines of applying for extensions to the service periods of engine parts and particularly of engines. The other major factor in the Australian aircraft scene is that our weather is more suited to safe aircraft operation and journeys are longer, so there are fewer descents and ascents. The whole substance of the legislation ought to be to ensure that when a major accident occurs in this country- naturally it will occur- because of the use of larger aircraft our safety record will be changed substantially. Anybody involved ought to have adequate and proper compensation. I ask the Minister to consider the position of air travellers and their dependants should a tragedy occur. It is the Government's responsibility to ensure that they are adequately provided for. Again I ask him to reconsider the limit of $45,000 with a view to increasing it to $67,000. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the firm ANTAS made an offer to the Government to purchase the Qantas charter subsidiary Qantair? 
If so, what are the terms of the offer? 
Has the Government made a decision on the offer; if not, when will a decision be made? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received offers for the purchase of any Qantas subsidiaries; if so, from whom and for which subsidiaries. 
Has he received requests for the re-allocation of regional air routes presently operated by Qantas; if so, from whom and for which regional air routes. 
What action has he taken in respect of ( 1 ) and (2). 
Will he give a categorical assurance that Qantas, its subsidiaries and the air routes it operates are not on offer to interested parties. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he tell me in reply to my question No. 33  (Hansard,  23 March 1976, page 928) that the Governor-General regularly publishes information in the daily press in relation to official calls made on him at Government House. 
Did the Governor-General publish information in relation to official calls made on him and by him during his 18 days in Britain, 17 days in France, 4 days in Hong Kong and 3 days in Italy to which reference was made in answer to my question No. 3 1  (Hansard,  23 March 1976, page 927). 
If so, on what dates did the Governor-General publish this information. 
If not, will he give information in relation to the official calls made on, and by, the Governor-General on (a) 24 December 1975, (b) 28 December 1975, (c) 29 December 1975, (d) 2 January 1976, (e) 14 January 1976, (f) 16 January 1976, (g) 23-29 January 1976 and (h) 2 February 1976. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Why has the environmental impact study completed by the Australian National Line on its container berth development at Botany Bay not been tabled in Parliament. 
When will it be tabled. 
Did he accede to a request of New South Wales  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Punch,  M.L.A., to delay presentation of the report until after  Mr Punch  had made his recent public relations inspection of Botany Bay and until after the New South Wales elections. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has he or his Department recommended to the Bland Committee that the Government should not proceed with construction of the second Derwent River bridge at Hobart; if so, what were the grounds for that recommendation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
In the event of closure of the North Australia Railway, what courses are open to the Government to ensure that road transport freight charges would not become excessive due to the resulting monopoly of road transport in the surface transport of goods. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) On what days and at what times did the Queensland Government aircraft (a) arrive at and (b) depart from Canberra airport during May 1 976. 
What passengers did it carry. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Have Ansett Airlines applied for an extension of the time allowed between each compulsory removal and overhaul of DC 9 aircraft engines. 
If so, what action has the Government taken in respect of the application and what was the Government's decision. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many hours does the Department of Transport allow a DC9 aircraft engine to accumulate before the engine must be removed for overhaul. 
What were the hours allowed between each compulsory removal and overhaul of engines when DC9 aircraft were first introduced into service in Australia. 
If there is no limit on DC9 engine hours, what criteria, if any, is used in determining when an engine should be removed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to an engine failure experienced by an Ansett Airlines DC9 Aircraft during takeoff at Cairns on 2 May 1976: 
How many hours had the failed engine accumulated since installation in the aircraft; 
When was the engine installed and 
Was the engine failure due to metal fatigue. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What position does  Mr Richard  Cobden hold at the Australian National Gallery. 
What are the duties of the position as stated in the duty statement for the position. 
What qualifications were stated as necessary for the position when it was advertised. 
What qualifications relevant to the position does  Mr Cobden  hold. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the detailed composition of the $ 1 3 m cut in his Department's Budget referred to in his press release of 4 February 1976. 
How many current employees will be retrenched as a result of this cut. 
What action does he propose to provide alternative employment for the employees affected. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there an airstrip at Coonawarra, South Australia. 
If so, what aircraft utilised the airstrip during the months of January, February and March 1976. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No. 58, which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 25 February 1976. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) When may I expect an answer to question No. 682 which asks for an answer to question No. 58 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 25 February. 
When may I expect an answer to question Nos 407 and 424, which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 27 April. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he ascertain from the Presiding Officers what is the name and address of the supplier of the pocket paging system recently installed in Parliament House. 
What was the total cost of the system including installation. 
3 ) What was the cost of each of the pocket units issued to members and senators. 
How many pocket units were purchased. 
What is the expected annual cost of servicing the total system. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Administrative Review Committee (Bland Committee) recommended to the Government that it should not proceed with the construction of the second Derwent River bridge at Hobart in the year 1 976-77. 
If so, what were the grounds for the recommendation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the venue and purpose of the GovernorGeneral's official engagements overseas on 24, 28 and 29 December 1975, 2, 14, 16 and 23-29 January 1976 and 2 February 1976. 
What was the (a) name, (b) designation, (c) salary and (d) allowance paid to each of the 5 officials who accompanied him. 
Have costs yet been finalised of (a) travel, (b) accommodation, (c) car hire and (d) gifts; if so, what were the costs: if not, when is it expected that the costs will be finalised. 
Is it a fact that an additional appropriation of $60,000 was sought in the additional estimates towards the payment of accounts related to the trip. 
5 ) Is it also a fact that total costs of the trip as set out in parts 3 (a), (b), (c) and (d) will exceed $200,000. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What United States multinational companies operating in Australia have admitted to activities overseas associated with the United States Central Intelligence Agency. 
) What action is the Government taking or proposing to take to ensure that those United States multinational companies that carry on activities in Australia and have admitted that they have acted in collaboration with, or as agents for. the United Suites Central Intelligence Agency in other countries, do not impinge on the right of privacy of Australian citizens either in Australia or overseas. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
When will he acknowledge my personal telegram of 7 December 1973 to him as caretaker Minister for Foreign Affairs seeking an assurance that no telexes, files, papers or documents relevant to question No. 3381 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 28 October 1975 had been burnt or otherwise destroyed since the caretaker Government was appointed and that all telexes, files, papers and documents relevant to the question would be held in a secure place pending resumption of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Department of Foreign Affairs maintain records of official visits of Australian Ministers of State to Singapore. 
Does the Department arrange official visits to the Head of State of Singapore for Australian Ministers of State visiting Singapore; if so, what records are kept of such arrangements and appointments. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he tell me in answer to my question No. 36  (Hansard, 25  March 1976, page 1087) relating to the occasions on which, and in what capacities the present Prime Minister had visited Singapore since his election to Parliament, that the Department of Foreign Affairs does not maintain a register of overseas visits undertaken by Members of Parliament 
Has bis attention been drawn to the information supplied by the Prime Minister in answer to my questions Nos 292 and 293  (Hansard,  18 May 1976, page 2169) that the records showed that he had made visits to Singapore on certain dates. 
What is the reason for the apparent discrepancy between the answer supplied by him and those supplied by the Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What training exercises were carried out by No. 34 Squadron as part of normal crew training and airfield proving flights during January, February and March 1 976. 
On what dates were each of the training exercises during these months (a) planned and (b) authorised. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) How many ships are currently under construction in Australian shipyards. 
What are the names and/or designations of these ships. 
Where are the vessels being built. 
What tonnages are they. 
What is the cost of each vessel, and what level of Australian Government subsidy has, or will be paid on each. 
What will be the area of operations of each vessel. 
7 ) For whom are they being built. 
How many ships have been constructed in Australian shipyards from 12 February 1972 to date. 
What are the names and/or designations of these ships. 
Where were they built. 
What tonnages are they. 
What was the cost of each vessel, and what amount of subsidy was paid in respect of each. 
What is the area of operations of these vessels. 
For whom were they built 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has IPEC sought permission for the import of 2 Argosy aircraft to be used on its freight service to Tasmania. 
Has a decision been made on the application, if so, when will it be announced, if not, when will a decision be made. 
Has he noted claims made by IPEC in its circular letter to clients of 10 March 1976 that it could provide a more efficient and cheaper air freight service to Tasmania using Argosy aircraft than is provided by the other airlines under existing conditions, if so, are these claims inconsistent with the recommendation of the Nimmo inquiry that a subsidy should be paid on air freight to and from Tasmania. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress has been made in the construction of the 4 bulk carrying ships which the Government has on order from overseas shipyards. 
When does the Government expect to take delivery of the first of these ships. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Will he defer the signing of documents for the purchase of 4 Australian National Line and 2 BHP ships from Japan until the tabling of the Industries Assistance Commission report on the shipbuilding industry which is due, I understand, on 20 September? 
I wish to bring the attention of the Parliament this morning to the appointment of a secret inquiry into government transport undertakings, which was announced by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on 13 June, a few days after the winter recess began. I now have before me the secret terms of reference, of which we learned something later from the  Australian Financial Review  on 29 June. I have obtained the Minister's permission to have those terms of reference incorporated in  Hansard,  and I seek leave to do so. 
The blanket terms of reference provide a privileged opportunity for selected clients and competitors of the publicly owned enterprises- the Australian Shipping Commission, Trans-Australia Airlines and the Australian National Railways- to conduct a secret witch hunt into the affairs, accounts and operations of the enterprises. The composition of the membership of the committee represents an incestuous relationship and constitutes a public scandal. The purposes of the inquiry are obviously to give the Broken Hill Pty Ltd and Brambles Holdings Ltd, both of which are transport operators, an insight into the affairs of their competitors and also to bring up a report which would appear to justify government action in carving up the activities of TAA, the Australian National Railways, the Australian National Line and Qantas Airways Ltd. They are the only conclusions to be drawn, otherwise the inquiry would be public and the committee would have adequate industry and community representation in its membership. Term of reference 2(e) reads: such other specific issues as are referred by the Minister for Transport 
That provides a blank cheque for the committee to look at whatever accounts and activities of the publicly owned enterprises the managing director of BHP would like to look at. Let us examine the membership of the committee. I will not go into the subject of the allowances which the Remuneration Tribunal has recommended be paid to the members of the committee. I assume that the payments which are to be made will be in addition to the fees and salaries received from the large number of companies on which these people are represented. The first member of the committee, James Charles McNeill, is managing director of BHP, and Australian Iron and Steel, and a director of Australian Wire Industry, BHP Nominees Pty Ltd, Dampier Mining, Hematite 
Petroleum Pty Ltd, Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Co Pty Ltd, BHP-GKN Holdings Ltd and Newman Mining Co. Pty Ltd. He is chairman of Queensland Coal Mining Co. Ltd, and a member of the Manufacturing Industries Advisory Council. 
The next member of the committee is  Mr War.wich  Holcroft. I am quoting my information from  Who's Who.  He is the chief executive and director of Brambles Industries Ltd, a director of Brambles Holdings Ltd, Brambles Brinks Ltd, Brambles Burrett of New Zealand, and he was  chairman  of the Transport Industries Advisory Council in Melbourne. The subsidiaries of Brambles, of which he is a director, are BramblesRuys Pty Ltd- that is an aircraft forwarder and customs shipping agents and it engages in bond warehousing- Port Jackson and Manly Steamship Co. Ltd, Brambles Holdings Ltd, J. Fenwick and Co. Pty Ltd, Vaughan Transport (Aust.) Pty Ltd, Brambles Brinks Ltd, as so on. They also include Brechnett Pty Ltd, which is a company half owned by Brambles and half owned by Heckett Engineering of Pennsylvania which engages in slag reclamation. 
The next member of the committee is  Mr K.  C. Keown, who is the auditor for BHP. It is very interesting to note that when the setting up of this committee was announced the Minister made no mention whatsoever of the relationship between these 3 men. Here we have 3 men who represent enterprises in competition with, as clients of, and suppliers to, publicly owned transport enterprises, inquiring in secret, bringing up a secret report and operating on a secret blanket reference. The report will never be tabled in this Parliament, and the relationship of the members of the inquiry, one to the other, has not been disclosed to this Parliament by the Minister.  Mr Keown  must have an interest in BHP; he is the company's auditor. Brambles have always had a long relationship with BHP. 
The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is a customer and a client of almost all of the government transport undertakings. All 3 members of the committee are associated with corporations that have major dealings with government transport undertakings. The Australian National Line has 4 ships working full time transporting BHP ore production amounting to about 4 million tonnes per annum. Two other vessels were occupied transporting steel coil between Port Kembla and Westernport for John Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd which is 50 per cent owned by BHP. BHP spends in excess of $lm per annum with the Australian National Railways for the carriage of steel from Whyalla to Western Australia and to eastern 
States and from Kwinana to Adelaide. In 1975-76 Australian National Railways purchased over $4m worth of steel rails and ancillary railway equipment from BHP. I understand that Brambles spends over $500,000 a year with Australian National Railways for the consignment of truck loads of goods by rail. From time to time the ANL uses tugs that are operated by Brambles. Brambles has had a long and close relationship with BHP extending over many years. That company does most of BHP's internal cartage at Newcastle. The magnitude of the transactions involved and the close competitorclient relationship between the firms represented on the committee and the Government transport undertakings being examined destroy any semblance of impartiality on the part of committee members. There is a clear and direct conflict of interest. The Minister should dismiss the committee or order a public inquiry. 
The sinister aspects of the inquiry are that it is secret and its terms of reference are secret. It gives the opportunity for publicly owned enterprises to be delved into by their competitors. The committee's report will be secret. If there is a need to examine government transport undertakings then it could be done publicly, honourably and above board in several other ways. First it could be done through the InterState Commission, the legislation for which this Government refuses to proclaim and which would be the ideal body to carry that out. Secondly it could be carried out by the Expenditure Committee announced with great acclaim by the Government in the first session of Parliament and from which we heard the report by the  Chairman  yesterday. It is another ideal body which has responsibility for the statutory authorities of this country. It could be carried out by the Public Accounts Committee or by the Auditor-General through whom these statutory authorities already report. Finally, it could be carried out by a select parliamentary committee which could be set up for the purpose of looking at government transport undertakings and the role they play. This committee will be guilty of deliberate waste and extravagance if it insists on nit-picking in respect of public transport enterprises when 350 000 Australians are jobless and another 150 000 will join them before next February because of the deliberate policies of this Government. It is an indictment of the Government. But another organisation ought to be concerned in relation to this issue and that is, the Australian Shareholders Association. I note that the past  president  of that organisation is now the  president  of the New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party. I ask this Association to take some interest in the activities of this inquiry, to take some interest in the role being played by  Mr McNeill, Mr Holcroft  and  Mr Keown.  Their first responsibilities are to the shareholders of the companies they represent, not to the Government Minister- and certainly not to an inquiry held in secret. Aim No. 1 of the Australian Shareholders Association is to promote and protect the interests of all shareholders, debentures and noteholders. The Association certainly is not doing so in this case. It has an excellent opportunity to ask  Mr McNeill  how he can reconcile his primary responsibility to the shareholders of BHP with the task that has been given to him by the Minister for Transport. Another aim of the Association is to campaign continually for improvements in management standards and business ethics and to call for stronger restrictions on such matters as insider trading. I put it to the Parliament that here is a very clear case for consideration of business ethics and insider trading.  (An incident having occurred in the gallery) 
-This evening I want to say something about this Government of hate, a Government dedicated to vengeance and determined to continue the campaign of divisiveness and deceit it initiated when in Opposition. It is led by a man skilled in these arts, a Prime Minister with a unique record of having destroyed two of his Party's leaders, a man who has never had to work for a wage in his life and a man who preaches to the 350 000 people presently unemployed: 'Life is not meant to be easy; life is meant to be tough'. That is cold comfort to the half million Australians who will be out of work by the beginning of 1977 and to the 50 000 Australians who face disaster as a result of his decision to close the Australian shipbuilding industry. 
In spite of its all time record of repudiated election promises, this Government and those who sit opposite, including all the oncers who hope to be twicers- they can all smile; it Will be a little different later- have been consistent in the one thing that they did not put to the community last year, and that is their absolute determination to reduce living standards, to cut real wages and to expand unemployment. The Government hopes to force a reduction in real wages by greatly expanding the pool of unemployed. The closure of the shipyards is simply the first step. It is part of a much broader plan. Let those honourable members opposite, who interject so freely with smiles on their faces and think it is a funny matter, go to the housewives in Newcastle who will have trouble meeting their house payments. I can assure honourable members opposite that it is not funny. It is your decision, and each of you who sits opposite represents the most callous Government that has ever held office in this country. Honourable members opposite laugh and enjoy themselves in creating hardship and despair for hundreds of thousands of Australians. It is ironical that the $40m granted to the Utah Corporation by way of tax concessions is about the amount that the shipyards need now by way of subsidy to maintain and revitalise the industry, an industry which went without a policy from 1960 to 1972 while the Liberal-Country Party slumbered on. 
What we are seeing today is really an enactment of vengeance by this Government and those who support it against certain sections of the trade union movement. It is a political vendetta designed to divide the trade union movement, designed to put people outside the gate in the hope that there will be enough people outside the gate so that when wages are cut they will have to take them. Shades of Rothbury in the 1930s! Back to the dirty thirties; back to the hungry thirties. Now this Government is creating the hungry seventies. It is doing this deliberately. This Government is a government for big business, dedicated to big business and directed by big business. The massive back bench opposite smiles and thinks it is all so humourous. It smiles and it jumps when BHP and Utah and all the foreign multi-nationals pull the strings. The massive back bench opposite, composed of relatively young Australians, I am sorry to say, is devoid of compassion for working Australians, devoid of compassion for unemployed Australians, and rendered impotent by the faceless men of big business who orchestrate those who sit opposite. 
This Government misled Australia last year about Loan Council negotiations. Is it not strange that tonight the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said: 'We cannot sign these contracts for the ships from Japan because we have not yet got permission from the Loan Council. We did not bother to get permission before we sent the General Manager of ANL to Japan. ' That is hard to take. 
Honourable members opposite laugh. They laugh at the people who are presently unemployed and at the 150 000 they are going to be put out of work. They should go outside this place and laugh at those people to their faces. Honourable members opposite represent a Party which lives on divisiveness, which created hatred amongst the community and which is deliberately provoking violence in the community. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Governor-General daily make statements that are inflammatory and that can be interpreted only as a deliberate provocation of the extreme elements in the community. Think about the bus loads of NCP and League of Rights supporters who travelled around Queensland during the last election campaign breaking up public meetings. 
-The National Country Party employed them. Ask anybody in Queensland. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the BAC1-11 aircraft, which called at Mount Gambier on IS March 1976, pick up or deliver any passengers or goods at any stops en route. 
If so, what were the names and designations of passengers collected, and what were their points of embarkation and disembarkation. 
If any goods were collected or delivered, what was the (a) quantity, (b) variety and (c) value of these goods. 
At what stops en route were these goods either collected or delivered. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the United States multinational corporation, the Phillips Petroleum Company, carries on activities either directly or indirectly through associate companies or subsidiaries in Australia; if so, what are the names of the companies concerned. 
) What is the nature of each of the companies ' activities. 
When did each of the companies commence operations in Australia. 
What is the nominal capital and paid up capital of the Phillips Petroleum Company and each of its subsidiaries or associates in Australia. 
What were the sales and operating results of each of these companies during the years 1969-70 to 1974-75. 
Who were the Australian directors of the Phillips Petroleum Company and its subsidiaries or associates in each of the years 1969-70 to 1974-75. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the United States multinational company, Ashland Oil Inc., carries on activities either directly or indirectly through associated companies or subsidiaries in Australia; if so what are the names of the companies concerned. 
What is the nature of each of the companies' activities. 
When did each of the companies commence operations in Australia. 
What is the nominal capital and paid up capital of Ashland Oil Inc. and each of its subsidiaries or associates in Australia. 
What were the sales and operating results of each of these companies during the years 1969-70 to 1974-75. 
Who were the Australian directors of Ashland Oil Inc. and its subsidiaries or associates in each of the years 1 969-70 to 1974-75. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the United States multinational company, the Lockheed Corporation, carries on activities either directly or indirectly through associate companies or subsidiaries in Australia; if so, what are the names of the companies concerned. 
) What is the nature of each of the companies ' activities. 
When did each of the companies commence operations in Australia. 
What is the nominal capital and paid up capital of the Lockheed Corporation and each of its subsidiaries or associates in Australia. 
What were the sales and operating results of each of these companies during the years 1969-70 to 1974-75. 
Who were the Australian directors of the Lockheed Corporation and its subsidiaries or associates in each of the years 1969-70 to 1974-75. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1) Is he able to say whether the United States multinational company, the Northrop Corporation, carries on activities either directly or indirectly through associate companies or subsidiaries in Australia; if so, what are the names of the companies concerned. 
) What is the nature of each of the companies ' activities. 
When did each of the companies commence operations in Australia. 
What is the nominal capital and paid up capital of the Northrop Corporation and each of its subsidiaries or associates in Australia. 
What were the sales and operating results of each of these companies during the years 1969-70 to 1974-75. 
Who were the Australian directors of the Northrop Corporation and its subsidiaries or assosiates in each of the years 1969-70 to 1974-75. 
I have listened with pleasure to my colleague, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  We all enjoy from time to time his little economic dissertations and his little stories. I notice he is smiling because he knows I enjoy what he says from time to time. What he does not tell the House and the community is that his own people do not believe him.  His  own Party does not support him. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  said yesterday, the honourable member for Lilley is strange, because he has a Jekyll and Hyde personality. In this chamber he says one thing because he knows it will get into  Hansard,  and outside he says something else. Obviously his own Party cannot interpret him. I do not think that we of the Opposition or the community should be asked to interpret something that his own colleagues cannot interpret. I turn to the Budget. 
-I wish the honourable member would go back to his seat and interject from there so I can respond to him. Despite all the attempts by the Prime Minister to talk up recovery and talk up consumer spending, this Budget is designed deliberately to raise unemployment to an all time national record. It is designed to force on to the shoulders of the unemployed and the lower to middle class income groups the cost of this corrupt conservative Government's ill-advised attempt to combat inflation. This Government came to office at the climax of an orchestrated campaign of conspiracy, deception and deceit. 
I know it hurts, but you have to take it. It was a campaign in which the Government's masters- the media proprietors and big business- backed and helped to coordinate. Let there be no misunderstanding by the Australian community: This Government is being manipulated by big business, and this Budget is the pay-off. It is a succession of handouts to big business at the expense of the wage and salary earners, at the expense of the unemployed and the hundreds of thousands of people who will join the ranks of the unemployed in the months ahead. Let us examine just a few quotations from the election policy of the Liberal and Country Parties in November. They said: 
We will maintain Medibank . . . 
Medibank has become medimuddle. and in its place has been substituted a new form of taxation, a health services tax. It represents a reduction in disposable income. 
The honourable member says that it is good enough for the people. That is his view. It is not the view of the Opposition. The new tax is a sell-out to the Australian Medical Association and the private health funds. The Government Parties said about legal aid: 
We shall ensure that no person is denied legal aid because of lack of means. 
First the Government attempted to off-load legal aid to the States. The State Attorneys-General sent the Commonwealth's representatives back to Canberra to get some money. Now the Government is introducing a harsh means test. In my electorate there is a 4-week waiting list on urgent cases, and non-urgent cases just do not rate. That is how the Government has maintained legal aid. During the election campaign it said: 
Only under a Liberal-Country Party Government will there be a return to business confidence. 
Confidence in this country was demolished in the period from 16 October last year, when honourable members opposite and their colleagues outside this place deliberately brought this country to an economic standstill in their refusal to consider the Budget. No one can deny that. That was the severance, the cut-off point, in the economic development of this country over the last 18 months. The Government has destroyed confidence. The people of this country realised after the election what the Government had done. If the oncers who sit opposite are not worried, I ask them to compare the New South Wales election results with the last Federal election results. 
Mine are very good. I am very happy about them. There was a 16 per cent improvement between December and 1 May. I think the honourable member would be very happy if his rating was as good. During the election campaign the Government said: 
Only under a Liberal-Country Party Government will there be jobs for all who want to work. 
It was a shallow promise. The Government has not only abolished the right to work but is determined that those who are not able to find work will be cared for less. Let me refer to page 47 of Budget Statement No. 3. Our friend, the honourable member for Lilley, quoted profusely from the Budget. It shows a reduction of $33.6m in the provision for the unemployed and sick in the coming year. The Government itself accepts that there will be an increase in unemployment. We know that the honourable member for Lilley is an economics lecturer and maybe he has a special way of doing mathematics, but if he can make more per capita for the unemployed out of $36m less, 1 hope and wish he would do something about it. Another election promise was this: 
The present community health program will be continued. 
The Budget provides a cut in real terms of 1 5 per cent. The $500,000 community health centre going up in my electorate will not be built. The services it could offer will not be provided. The Government's friends in the AMA will be very happy about that. The school dental program which provides much benefit to parents is being wound down as a result of the cut in real terms in the provision for this program in the Budget. The Prime Minister has gone one better. He has repudiated the whole range of policies. On the television program  Monday Conference  on 24 May, referring to last year's policy speech, he told  Mr Alan  Barnes: 
That policy speech was obviously specifically directed to the circumstances in which it was made. 
In other words, voters should have realised it was not meant to be implemented. The speech was only words said for the occasion. The Government has rapidly established a remarkable record of inconsistency, but the one objective in which it has been singularly consistent and which it did not mention to the voters is the determined objective deliberately to expand unemployment and force upon wage and salary earners a reduction in living standards, a reduction in real wages and salaries. No honourable member on the Government side will deny that it is so. The Government misled the nation with a great bag of false promises while all the time it concealed its true objective of a massive increase in the jobless to bring a return to the hungry thirties, a return to the indignities and despair of the great depression. What more shameful exercise can there be than that of some members of the Government, who delight in vilifying and denigrating young people who are unable to get work by referring to them as dole bludgers. I hope that their sons and daughters, when they go looking for work and are unable to find it, receive the same sort of treatment from other persons as honourable members opposite have been meting out to young people in this community over the last 1 8 months. 
This Government, coerced by its dictatorial Prime Minister, again seeks to mislead the nation by union bashing and the creation of phoney issues in a futile attempt to divert public attention away from the real issue of its responsibility for the planned expansion of unemployment and the stagnating economy. Its continued attack on the trade union movement and the so-called left wing minority should be seen for what it is- an attempt to set up the trade union movement as the scapegoat for the certain failure of the Government's economic strategy. The Government controls the Treasury purse strings, not the trade union movement, and it is the Government which has the responsibility for the management of the economy. The Prime Minister- and I am sure some of the oncers opposite must have been dismayed, but outwardly they agree with what was done- has adopted a pro-Mao anti-Soviet stance to try to show the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as a dangerous threat to our security in order to distract public attention away from the extreme hardships the Government is intent on creating for most Australians. The bogey of the Soviet threat - 
-It is a fact. According to the Government, the Mao communists, the Chinese communists, are OK, they are number one, but the bad ones are those Soviet communists. That is the Government's policy, not the Opposition's. The bogey of the Soviet threat is made all the more ludicrous when we consider that, on the one hand, uniformed Russian seamen on our west coast are painted as a dangerous threat while on our east coast non-uniformed Russian seamen of the Soviet line Fesco are given a red carpet welcome by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to carry our exports to world markets because their freight rates are IS per cent less than those of the Conference lines. By its own actions, the Government has valued the magnitude of the Soviet threat to our security as being worth something less than the 15 per cent freight discount available from the Soviet line Fesco. Currently the United States nuclear vessel  Truxtun  is visiting Australia, a visit obviously engineered to trigger a reaction from certain sections of the trade union movement, again to distract attention away from the evil of unemployment which this Government is fostering. Additionally, there is no doubt in my mind that the visit has been organised to give grace to the use of uranium powered vessels and uranium in general, having in mind the release of the Fox report. 
Allied to those factors are the actions of the Prime Minister and the Governor-General at public appearances, actions which can be interpreted only as designed to create and promote violence in the community. The Prime Minister has adopted an 'I dare you to' attitude to demonstrators, again hoping to draw attention away from the perilous state of our economy.  His  actions are irresponsible, divisive and dangerous. I do not believe that Australians will be hoodwinked by the Government's tactics of directing public discussion to false issues. If the Government persists in its union bashing it is more likely to meet the same fate as did Edward Heath in the United Kingdom when he thought he could batter the United Kingdom miners into submission. After all, governments and not unions are responsible for the economy. The Government when in Opposition refused to acknowledge that the Australian economy was locked into the world trading scene. Now in office it seeks to explain its failures as being the result of external trading factors and the unions. In office the Government has learned that when Japan sneezes Australia goes to bed with pneumonia. In truth, Australia is in the hands of a bumbling, fumbling bunch of incompetents whose first loyalty is to big business and to the overseas shareholders of the multi-national corporations. It should be remembered that 90 per cent of the shareholding of Utah Mining Australia Limited, which received something like $40m out of this Budget, is outside this country, but $33.6m has been taken from the vote for unemployment and sickness benefits. That shows a strange set of priorities. 
The lack of confidence and uncertainty in the community flow directly from the actions of those who sit opposite, those who last year tore up the rules and destroyed parliamentary conventions in their indecent haste to grab power. They blocked the Hayden Budget and brought the nation to an economic standstill. How could anyone have confidence in the future when the Government in its own Budget Papers has acknowledged that unemployment is to increase? How can consumers increase their spending and use their savings when all the prospects indicate that many thousands of them are going to join the jobless in the coming months? My best advice to those who have savings is to hang on to those savings because we know that as a direct result of this Budget the chances are that they may not have jobs much longer. What the Budget seeks to achieve in this time of record depression is to make life easier, not for the wage and salary earners and the unemployed but for the big corporations and the overseas shareholders. 
The Budget provided the Government with an opportunity to give a stimulus to economic activity and to provide hope and encouragement to all Australians. Instead it has done the opposite by making severe cuts in real capital expenditure in the public sector. In its obsession with expenditure in the public sector the Government has overlooked 2 factors; firstly, that people quite naturally expect that governments are there to assist and provide for them in times of difficulty and to do for them the things they are not able to do for themselves, things such as the provision of health services and education and assistance in times of unemployment; secondly, that capital expenditure in the public sector creates jobs and profits in the private sector. The Prime Minister has said that he wants to see increased profits for the corporations. Apparently he does not realise that as a result of his ruthless chops in public capital expenditure, tenders for Government contracts in the non-dwelling public sector are being made at around cost and below cost. These tenders for projects are being submitted by large companies almost on a 'go anywhere' basis to try to keep their production teams together. The large and the strong companies may survive because many of them have other interests anyway, but many small to medium sized construction firms will not survive. 
Transport is an area in which the Government could have acted to stimulate the economy. Road program funding could have been expanded. The urban public transport program could have been accelerated with new initiatives. The upgrading of inter-capital railway lines and the expansion of railway rolling stock would have given an impetus to regional economic activity and job opportunities as well as providing a more efficient transport system. However, the Government has chosen to reduce transport expenditure. The total expenditure of $874. lm for the coming year is in real terms a reduction of 7.5 per cent as compared with last year. An amount of $938.9m would have been required for the corning year to keep expenditure at the same level in real terms. I will deal with individual allocations a little later, but I want to say something about the way in which information and decision making in the Department of Transport is being hidden from public examination by a return to the closed shop style of operation reminiscent of the conservative governments of the 1 960s. 
Running through the activities of the Department since last November are 2 expanding themes, secrecy and a reduction of safety standards, both on the roads and in the air. Since the present Minister for Transport took office we have seen a succession of secret inquiries and procedures. The Road Safety Standards Authority has been abolished as an independent road safety authority. Secret inquiries have been ordered into the construction of the Adelaide to Crystal Brook rail line and the Tarcoola to Alice Springs rail line, as well as the Tasmanian Government Railways Agreement and the South Australian Government Railways Agreement, the last two in a snide attempt by the Federal Government to evade federal responsibility. Then there is the scandalous MacNeill inquiry into publicly owned transport undertakings, conducted by a loaded committee which involves a serious conflict of interest. There is the Aviation Industry Review Committee, chaired by  Sir Lenox  Hewitt, whose report is qualified by that other secret committee, the Bland Committee. Now we have the proposed repeal of the Bureau of Roads Act 1964 to facilitate the absorption of the Bureau of Roads into the Department of Transport. All of those inquiries should have been conducted in public and their reports made to the Parliament, but the reports will go to the Minister and not to the Parliament. The question raised by these actions is this: What is the 
Government trying to hide? If the inquiries are honourable and above board, they should be seen to be honourable and above board. Obviously the Government plans to use the reports as devices to enable it to evade public examination of its actions. 
Turning now to safety aspects, the abolition of the Road Safety Standards Authority as an independent authority was a paltry exercise in reducing expenditure at the cost of motorists' lives in the future. The amalgamation of the Bureau of Roads with the Bureau of Transport Economics in the Department of Transport is in direct opposition to representations from motorists ' organisations. Again, the excuse is that it is to reduce expenditure, but the exercise means slower development of improved road standards, reduced access by local government organisations and the public and, ominously, tighter personal control by the Minister. In the field of air operations, the Government's expenditure cuts are irresponsible. In fact, its irresponsibility is compounded by the Minister's denial in this House on 3 1 March this year, and later on 6 April, that reduced air safety was resulting from his Department's freeze on finance. On 3 1 March he admitted to the House that he did not know the answer to the question I asked on the discontinuance of monthly airworthiness directives. A week later, on 6 April, he stated, as is shown on page 1343  of Hansard: 
I repeat the assurance which I have already given that no measure under the Government's cost recovery program or economic drive will be permitted to put at risk those people who travel by air. 
Either the Minister is incompetent or he cannot distinguish between fact and fiction, because in a departmental report embracing the airworthiness branch for the quarter ending 30 June 1 976- that is the quarter in which he gave an explicit assurance to this House on the maintenance of air safety standards- the following words appear: 
Serious delays continue in the processing and production of airworthiness directives on the mandatory modification or inspection of aircraft. Further deterioration of this vital safety function is inevitable whilst 2 officers of an establishment of 3 officers continue vacant under the current recruiting embargo. 
Clearly the Minister is placing the lives of air travellers in jeopardy. The report of the Minister's own Department proves beyond any doubt that the undermanning of the airworthiness directive section constituted a serious and deliberate hazard to air travellers and that the Minister in his statement on 6 April misled the House. It places in doubt any future assurances on air safety by the Minister. It expresses the concern of responsible officers in his Department at the situation that has been created by the Government's decision to reduce funds available for the essential tasks of the Department of Transport. The lives that are lost as the result of his Government's decision to reduce expenditure on safety standards and procedures on the roads and in the air under the smokescreen of re-allocation expenditure will be on his head, and before he, as Minister, makes such decisions he should give some thought to the distress and hardship that he will be creating for thousands of Australian families. 
I turn now to proposed expenditure and receipts for the Department of Transport. Despite its trenchant criticism of the Labor Government's aviation cost recovery program, the Government has decided to increase air navigation charges by a further IS per cent from December, and that decision was taken at a time when the airlines are experiencing one of their most difficult trading periods in history. The refusal of the Government to approve any new projects in urban public transport will have serious effects on attempts by the States to improve their public transport services. In considering the sum of $63.4m which is provided for the Australian Shipping Commission, attention must be given also to the repayment of $35.7m in principal and interest by the Australian National Line following the re-financing of the 2 large bulk carriers being built overseas. 
In summary, this Budget then is a blueprint for disaster for tens of thousands of Australians. It offers a dismal future for our youth. It places the interests of foreign shareholders and big business before the interests of Australians seeking the right to work and before the interests of the unemployed and the needy. No matter how much the Government flays about trying to create false issues, the people are rapidly realising that this Government is deliberately creating unemployment so as to force upon wage and salary earners a reduction in real wages and living standards. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost per kilometre, in 1976 prices, of the standard guage railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. 
What funds were appropriated for this project in 1975-76. 
What was the actual expenditure on the project in 1975-76. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport: What progress has been made in the negotiations between the Australian Shipping Commission and Japanese steel firms for cargoes for the Australian bulk carriers that are about to enter service on the Japan-Australia run? Further, is it a fact that the Japanese have requested, as a condition of the talks, that the Australian Shipping Commission place orders for its 4 new vessels with Japanese shipbuilding firms? 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Shortland moving a motion condemning the Government for its action in preventing the Parliament from debating the ramifications of the decision by the Government to weaken the powers of the Prices Justification Tribunal thus greatly reducing its effectiveness in restraining prices at a time of high inflation and Government sponsored record unemployment and the Government's action in urging the people to earn less and spend more. 
Throughout the day- 
That the honourable member for Shortland be not further heard. 
He has finished moving his motion. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the tonnage of each category of goods, (a) exported to and (b) imported from the mainland at each of the Tasmanian ports during (i) 1975-76, (ii) June 1976 and (iii) July 1976. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What sum was paid under each category of the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme during July 1 976. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
When will the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme be extended to southbound cargoes as mentioned in the Budget papers. 
What are the rates of subsidy that will be payable by category on southbound cargoes. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Bureau of Transport Economics' Report on proposals to develop Townsville Airport been completed. 
If not, when is it expected that it will be completed. 
When will the report be tabled in the Parliament. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for National Resources been drawn to a statement in the  Farmers Weekly  of 16 September 1976, over the signature 'Your Favourite Nephew, Doug Anthony', that an extra $100m has been provided this year for local government use on roads? The statement claims that one might even admit, if pressed hard enough, that on the few occasions he has shown himself to be their friend - 
I think that the House is grateful for the remarks of the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe).  No one in the House deplores the inconvenience that arises when a disputation of this nature occurs more than members of the Opposition. But it should be remembered that the issue involved here relates to State or Federal industrial jurisdiction. This is a matter that the LiberalNational Country Parties when in Government for 23 years refused to agree upon. In addition, when they had the numbers in the Senate between 1972 and 1975 on several occasions they rejected legislation that would have helped to prevent the present situation developing. I am pleased that the honourable member for Paterson has remained in the chamber because I think it reasonable to explain that as I understand the situation he is a principal of an oil distribution business. I think that it is only fair - 
I happened to be present in the chamber and I will speak about the matter. I think it is only fair to the union members concerned that when a member of Parliament rises in this chamber to be critical of the parties to a union dispute because of legislation that a government of which he was a member for many years would not do something about, he ought to declare all of his involvement. That is only fair and proper to the men and their families. If a member of Parliament raises an issue such as this under the guise of public interest, he also has a responsibility to the Parliament and to the community to say that he stands to be disadvantaged from that disputation or that he stands to benefit if such disputation does not occur. 
The honourable member for Paterson can take my remarks whichever way he chooses. That is for him to decide. But he has a responsibility, as 1 have and as has every member of this Parliament. If we raise a matter for discussion in the national forum, we ought to be required to put all our cards on the table and disclose that we have an interest or that there could be a personal pecuniary interest on the part of the honourable member concerned. Between 1972 and 1975, the Labor Government tried on several occasions to introduce legislation that would force members of this Parliament to register and disclose to the community their pecuniary interests, investments and shareholdings. I would be very happy to do that. I think it is a very desirable action that ought to be taken. In my opinion, this is a glaring example of why such legislation ought to be enacted. If I recall the notice paper correctly, it contains a private member's Bill dealing with this very subject. There was a Committee of the Parliament inquiring into the subject - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until Tuesday, 5 October 1976 at 2.15 p.m. unless  Mr Speaker  shall by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House fix an alternative day of meeting. 
The House adjourned at  11  p.m. 
-The Opposition has raised for discussion in this Parliament as a matter of public importance the question of the Fraser Government's inconsistent attitudes towards the regulation of incomes and prices because it believes it is of the utmost national importance that the community should become more aware of the slanting of the Government's approach to economic management towards the expansion of the profit factor at the expense of the wages factor. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has made what can best be described as an ill-prepared and rhetorical response in an Alice in Wonderland kind of way. 
-The honourable member for LaTrobe would make a very good Fairy Godmother. The Minister tries to persuade us that the record level of unemployment in the communitythe highest rate of unemployment since World War II- the attack on and denigration of unemployed people by this Government, the vilification and persecution of the young unemployed people by this Government, and the increasing prices, are all matters of fantasy, that they are not really happening. He tries to make us believe that this is all conjecture, something which the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  has created in his comments. The fact is that the Government is continuing to try to perpetrate a confidence trick upon the Australian community. It has established the greatest record for repudiating promises that we have ever known. 
The 2 matters about which the Government has been consistent since it came to office and which it did not put to the people at the last election are its deliberate policy of increasing unemployment and its determination to reduce living standards and real wages. In those 2 areas the Government has been absolutely consistent. The Minister talked about the relationship of wages to profits. It is true that there is a relationship between wages and profits, but the Minister neglected to mention productivity, price levels, the change in the market or the market size, exchange rates and the pending devaluation which has a sobering effect on any expansion in this country. 
The Minister referred to the letter written to him by the  Chairman  of the Prices Justification Tribunal, which is contained in the Tribunal's annual report, but he neglected to mention what is contained on pages 121, 122 and 123 of that report. 
-I seek leave to have these pages incorporated in  Hansard  as they are part of the report. I refer to the chapter titled 'The Future of the Tribunal '. 
Very well. I have not time to go through what is contained in that chapter, but rather I bring it to the attention of honourable members and to mention one sentence in it. That sentence reads: 
However some of the criticisms did not go to the nature of the Tribunal's operations but appeared to be mainly motivated by sectional considerations. 
Further on page 12 1 the report deals with similar activities in other comparable nations and points out that in countries where organisations like the Prices Justification Tribunal have been disbanded they have been almost immediately reestablished. At page 123 the report concludes: 
With a possible improvement in the economic position it is also necessary to watch that undue advantage is not taken of any expansion of demand, particularly against the background of inflation accounting techniques, alteration in exchange rates, Government charges and so on. 
The Tribunal is really saying that there is a very strong case for an expansion of its powers and for its continued existence. On page 122 of the report the Tribunal rebuts the claim of the Minister regarding the letter written to him by the  Chairman  of the Tribunal. It says: 
Although the future scope of the Tribunal's operations is still under consideration, the Tribunal believes that it has a significant role to play in the Australian economic and industrial scene . . . 
Quite clearly the Tribunal sees a role for an expansion, not a contraction, of its powers. The Minister sought to blame the Opposition for the fact that this House had not discussed the statement on the Prices Justification Tribunal. That was the Minister's own responsibility; he created the situation which arose on that occasion. The movements of prices and wages are inseparably linked. A policy on wages cannot be developed at the exclusion of price movements in an economy such as ours. Almost all Western democracies have adopted a social compact style of formula in their approach to the twin problems of high inflation and record unemployment Even in New Zealand where a wage freeze has been instituted there has been a corresponding freeze on prices, profits and rents. The report to the Australian Government upon certain matters relating to power over prices and incomes by T. C. Winter noted: 
The countries which have achieved most conspicuous successes have secured a consensus of the various economic and social groups within the community. 
Since taking office the Fraser Government has directed itself to a policy of confrontation with the trade union movement. It is pursuing a deliberate policy of increased unemployment and reductions in real wages. It is attempting to force a reduction in real wages and living standards, at the same time removing the few measures that there are on price restraint. All the Government's efforts to combat inflation have been directed to wage restraint, while the floodgates have been opened to price increases and profits. In fact, the increases are encouraged. This lopsided approach to economic policy is based on ideology, not on sound principles of economic management Pricing policies and income policies cannot be separated. One cannot be considered to the exclusion of the other. That is what this Government is doing. Almost daily the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  exhorts workers to spend more and to work for less, while the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  exhorts corporations to make greater profits. It is all part of the 'earn less spend more' syndrome of the Prime Minister. He is the man who last year said that people who are thriftless should not be the responsibility of the community. He now urges people to go out and spend their savings. What he does not recognise is that many people do not have that option, that most of their income is committed in advance to lenders. 
Let us turn now to the nature of the Government's attack on living standards and real wages. It took just 7 weeks after the election for the Government to begin its attack on wage and salary earners. On 31 January of this year it announced its opposition to full wage indexation. Now workers are being told to accept only partial wage indexation. At the same time they are being told to pay up to $12 a week for Medibank or for private health care. Australians will now have to pay more for services provided by the Government. All this is aimed at reducing the real purchasing power of Australian wage and salary earners. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  has announced a stringent means test for legal aid services. He has introduced a filing fee of $60 for each document filed under the Family Law Act. 
-On each application, I am sorry. Under federalism we look forward in the next income year to the introduction of a State income tax. The Minister made mention of tax indexation. Let us examine the old thimble and pea trick- the economic package that the Government brought forward. Firstly we should take into consideration the abolition of deductibility for taxation purposes of dependent children, which paid for the increase in child endowment. Secondly there is the abolition of tax deductibility of health fund contributions which wage earners have not yet realised. Thirdly there is the exclusion of SOO 000 taxpayers from the entitlement to deduct home loan interest. Fourthly, there is the introduction of a Medibank tax, a compulsory contribution which can be described only as the most wasteful and extravagant proposition based clearly on ideology and a collapse in favour of the Australian Medical Association and the private hospitals. On the plus side there is tax indexation, as the Minister mentioned, and an increase in child endowment. He should talk to a single income family with 2 dependent children and see what they think about the economic package. He should ask them how many dollars they are behind in family income. The net result, despite what the Government says about personal taxation, is in the Budget. The Budget Papers show that average weekly earnings are expected to increase by 12 per cent, but personal income tax collections will increase by 25 per cent. 
It does not matter how you try to misrepresent the situation. Use your own figures. There is a 25 per cent increase in income tax collections and a 12 per cent increase in average weekly earnings. Looking at the area of unemployment, during the last election campaign the Prime Minister promised that there would be jobs for all those who wanted them. Where are the jobs? We have the highest number of jobless since World War II. The shipbuilding industry is about to be callously thrown aside. The Government wants more people outside the gate, back to the 1930s. The Minister does not want to recognise what his Government's policy will bring. We have a denigration of unemployed people. A false assumption is promoted by the Government and by Government members that those people who are out of work are out of work simply because they will not look for it. That is the assumption they falsely put to people. They do not want to recognise that the work is not there to be had. The unemployed and those about to join them should remember the words of the Prime Minister 'We need a rugged society. Life is not meant to be easy. Life is meant to be tough'. They are his words. Honourable members opposite must justify them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. During his speech he asked for leave to incorporate matter in  Hansard.  Leave is granted. 
-I thank the House. 

 The document read as follows- 

asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Why have the inquiries into the Adelaide to Crystal Brook Railway line been conducted in secret. 
Will he table the proceedings and report of the inquiry; if so, when, if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Why have the inquiries into the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway line been conducted in secret. 
Will he table the proceedings and report of the inquiry; if so, when, if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did each of the launching ladies who officiated at the recent launchings of the two Australian Shipping Commission ships in Sweden receive a gift 
If so, what was the (a) nature; and (b) value of each gin. 
If the value of each gift was in excess of $100, has it been paid for by the recipient in accordance with the Prime Minister's election promise. 
What is the present location of each gift 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to the statement by the Premier of Queensland in December 1973 that he would seek talks with him on the provision of an intra-State shipping service for Queensland by the Australian Shipping Commission, what progress has been made in the talks, and when is it anticipated the service will commence. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the donation by Qantas Airways Ltd of a free trip  from  Fiji to London as first prize in an election fund raising festival queen competition for the Fijian Alliance Party? Was he consulted by Qantas prior to that company making this controversial decision? Has his attention been drawn to claims made in the Fijian House of Representatives that Qantas might be expecting favours in return for the plane seats and that the action borders on political corruption, and to a request that Qantas should grant similar privileges to other Fijian political parties? Will he request Qantas to cease this obnoxious practice of giving selective support to foreign political parties? 
-Earlier today in the chamber I asked the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to table a document under standing order 321. At that time he was answering a question, asked by the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson),  relating to the dispute between Connair Pty Ltd and the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. At the time I was not certain of what the document contained but I thought it would give me useful information to discover the background to this dispute. However when the document was tabled I found that it read as follows: 
Can the Minister indicate to the House the present position in regard to the dispute between Connair and the Air Pilots Federation which has resulted in a ban on airline services to Alice Springs, and the crippling of that town by the Air Pilots Association? 
Will the Minister assure the House that the Government will do everything within its power to ensure essential airline operations are maintained in the Territory? 
What has been the effect of the ban imposed by the air pilots- 
Thank you for your intervention,  Mr Speaker.  This document continued: 
What has been the effect of the ban imposed by the airpilots on the operations of Connair? 
The question asked by the honourable member for Leichhardt was identical with what I have just read to the chamber, with the exception of 5 words which did not change the sense of the question set out in this paper which was tabled. The words which followed, set out on that piece of paper, read as follows: 
Australian Federated Air Pilots claim before Justice Coldham, Flight Crew Officers Tribunal- 
I cannot read the next word- 
Referred Full Bench. Considered by Full Benchrejected . . . Coldham Stanton. Justice Coldham called compulsory conference. Told pilots mischievous, illegitimate and monstrous exercise in industrial power, should lift ban preserve image. I agree. Connair 40 years in Centre. Fact is stoppage destroy Connair. Capt. Southwell of Federation said Sunday rather Connair went wall rather than go back to work. 
The notes were written by the honourable member's Minister and I am trying to read them to him. I wish he would be patient. The notes continue: 
Not prepared accept umpire's decision. Irresponsible decision by Executive/own greed/destroy jobs. Proposing reimpose ban Alice- extend Darwin/national strike. 
Standing order 151- 
They ought to put the honourable member for Denison in a zoo. He would be an addition to it. Standing order 1 5 1 states : 
Questions may be asked without notice. At the discretion of the  Speaker  supplementary questions may be asked to elucidate an answer. 
Although the Standing Orders do not prescribe that questions without notice should be without notice, it is obvious from the document tabled earlier today by the Minister that he needs a little bit of help from time to time and that honourable members on the Government side of the House cannot ask a question unless somebody types it out for them. That is a reflection of their numbers and their arrogance. Their arrogance was reflected also in their behaviour this evening. Standing order 151 says only that questions may be asked without notice, but I am told that there is this practice of preparing questions on pieces of paper. Although it is not always judicious, advisable or discreet to write the answer on the same piece of paper, it is a time-honoured ploy which has been utilised over the years. I think in all fairness that the Minister's gallant effort on this date should be put on record, as well as that of honourable members on the Government side, -particularly National Country Party members,: because this paper has written on it the name of  Mr Calder.  However, the question was asked by the honourable member for Leichhardt, so obviously at least 2 copies of it were circulating in the chamber. The Minister should be congratulated for the assistance he gives his National Country Party colleagues by typing up their questions for them. It is a pity that the Minister does not utilise the same conciliatory attitude towards the people involved in this dispute. I wish he would leave aside his blunderbuss approach to industrial relations and use a little bit of goodwill and conciliation to try to get the dispute settled and so ensure that the people of the Northern Territory will continue to have the air services which are essential for them. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When does the Government propose to implement its election promise to abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Were any visits made to Australian airports by aircraft of the airline Air America during each of the years from 1 960 to 1972. 
Ifso- 
on what dates and at what airports did the aircraft land, and 
b) what was the purpose of each of the visits. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the classification and salary entitlement of the additional position provided for in the 1976-77 estimates of executive employment in his Department as shown on page 1 65 of Budget Paper No. 4. 
When will the additional position be filled. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the reasons for the reduction of 10 positions in the Bureau of Transport Economics during 1976-77 as shown on page 1 65 of Budget Paper No. 4. 
What is the classification and salary of each of the positions to be abolished. 
3 ) When is the planned reduction in staffing to take place. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What are the reasons for the reduction of one position in the Finance and Commercial Division of his Department during 1976-77 as shown on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4. 
What is the classification and salary of that position and when will it be abolished. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the reasons for the reduction of 97 positions in the staffing of the Management Services Division of his Department during 1976-77 as shown on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4. 
) What is the classification and salary of each of the positions to be abolished. 
When will the proposed reduction in staffing take place. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the reasons for the reduction in staffing of the Civil Aviation Operations Division of his Department by 340 positions during 1976-77 as shown on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4. 
What is the classification and salary of each of the positions to be abolished. 
When will the proposed reduction in staffing take place. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Why is the staff of the Marine Operations Division of his Department to be increased by 34 officers during 1 976-77 as shown on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4. 
What is the classification and salary of each of the additional positions. 
) When will the additional positions be filled. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the reasons for the estimated increase of 67 positions in the Policy and Planning Division of his Department during 1976-77 as shown on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4. 
What is the classification and salary of each of the additional positions. 
If the increase is to be effected by the transfer or amalgamation of personnel from other divisions or authorities, from what divisions or authorities is it expected the additional 67 officers will come. 
When is it planned that the increase in personnel will take place. 
-This evening I want to refer to the total lack of information on the activities of foreign-based multinational corporations in Australia. This position is aggravated by the refusal of the present conservative Government to make available to the Parliament the information that is held on their operations. While the countries of origin of these corporations have taken firm action to control the corporations, the Australian Government has little or no detail of the activities of foreign-based companies in Australia other than that already published. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  recently told me in answer to a question on notice seeking information on the United States multinational corporation, Ashland Oil Incorporated: 
I do not think it would be appropriate for me to attempt to provide information of this kind on the affairs of individual companies. Even if I were to do so, all I could use would be published information. 
I had sought information from the Treasurer on this company in view of the company's confessions of having made kickbacks to politicians and political parties, of having bribed government officials on a grand scale and of having acted as a link for the United States Central Intelligence Agency. What concerns me greatly is that this same company operates in Australia through its subsidiaries of Australian Carbon Black Pty Ltd and Valvoline (Australia) Pty Ltd in key transport supply areas. I make no specific allegations against the Australian subsidiaries of Ashland Oil but the company's admitted activities in other parts of the world raise serious questions as to its business ethics. 
Let us look at some of the testimony given by the company on its recent activities around the globe. I refer to published reports of documents 
Hied  with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission- a United States statutory authority which vets the activities of United States corporations. Ashland doled out $1.2m in illegal campaign contributions and in payments to foreign officials.  President  Nixon received $100,000 in 1 968 and many Kentucky politicians shared in part of $724,000 provided in illegal political donations. Outside the United States a total of $ 1 90,000 was paid to  President  Bongo of Gabon and  Mr N'Dong,  Gabon's Minister for 
Agriculture. In June 1975 the corporation admitted to $500,000 in questionable payments to Nigeria, Gabon, the Dominican Republic, Libya and perhaps other countries as well. The Securities and Exchange Commission had charged that Ashland had failed to disclose more than $4m in overseas cash transfers on disbursements made ostensibly for business purposes. George Cecil Hardin Jnr, the corporation's vice-president, admitted in August 1975 that he was involved in under-the-table contributions to congressional campaigns out of his own funds but was later reimbursed by the corporation. He was a director of Kerr-McGee Australian Ltd at that time. 
Ashland Oil is America's largest independent oil refiner and the fiftieth largest industrial corporation in the United States. It has extensive and expanding foreign operations. Such a corporation should be setting an example in the conduct of its affairs domestically and abroad. Ashland has, however, admitted to gross malpractice in domestic and foreign business dealings. It has admitted to providing a cover for covert Central Intelligence Agency operatives outside the United States. A letter from the corporation's auditors, Coopers and Lybrand, to Ashland directors which was submitted to the SEC disclosed that Ashland Oil Incorporated was paid $98,968 by the United States Central Intelligence Agency between 1968 and 1973 for undisclosed purposes. Whilst the corporation refused to reveal how the money was used the  Washington Post-i  journal not unknown for its accuracy- of 9 July 1975 quoted a source as saying: 
The Agency probably paid the funds to Ashland to reimburse the oil company for employing Central Intelligence Agency agents abroad as part of an agency deep cover operation. 
The  New York Times  on 10 July 1975 agreed. Because of the paucity of information on the activities of foreign-based multinationals in Australia and in the absence of any investigation or examination of the activities of foreign multinationals in this country, it would be irresponsible to believe that similar practices are not being followed in Australia. The  Chairman  of Ashland Oil,  Mr Orin  E. Atkins, told the  New York Times  on 2 1 August 1975: 
I felt I was doing what was being done generally. 
In the Parliament earlier in the year I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the following question on notice: 
What US multinational companies operating in Australia have admitted to activities overseas associated with the United States Central Intelligence Agency? 
Significantly, he evaded the question. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have an extension of time of one minute to comply with the request of the honourable member for Perth? 
-Obviously the Prime Minister and his Government want the performance and activity of foreign-based multinationals to remain hidden from public scrutiny. What is needed is a standing parliamentary committee along the lines of the United States Senate subcommittee on multinationals to monitor and examine the activities of foreign-based multinational corporations operating in Australia. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Transport, I should like to advert to the information provided to the Senate Estimates Committee, which covered revenue as well as proposed expenditure. In response to the comments of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom),  I should remind him and the Committee that although he spoke in glowing terms of the present Government's activities in relation to Tasmania, those activities are the result of schemes put forward by the previous Labor Government. The honourable member needs to be reminded, as does the Parliament, that there was a subsidy scheme in existence for Tasmania many years ago and that the Liberal and National Country Parties, during the period of their administration, abolished that scheme. It was a Labor Government in 1 972 that reintroduced a form of subsidy. It was a Labor Government that appointed the Nimmo committee of inquiry. Despite all the attempts of the Labor Government, it was unable to get the report of that inquiry before the Parliament so that the extended subsidy scheme could be looked at and legislation brought in. 
It should be mentioned also that whilst the honourable member claims the support of and gives credit to the State Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania,  Mr Bingham,  he conveniently neglects to mention that the proposals for the stevedoring industry in Australia that have been advanced by this Government are completely opposed by the Tasmanian Liberal Party.  Mr Bingham  has been very forthright and has spoken very strongly of his State Liberal Party's opposition to the proposals for the stevedoring industry. I think in fairness to the stevedoring industry and to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who is at the table, because of the importance of the stevedoring industry to transport generally, it would be well for him to talk with  Mr Bingham  about that matter also. 
The honourable member will have his chance to speak later. As I told him the other night, he would be a good addition to a zoo. People would pay money to see him. I note also that the first monthly payment under the new subsidy scheme for the month of July is just over $7,500. I can understand that that is very early because the accounts should be paid before the claims can be made. However, it is a beginning. I was suprised by the smallness of the subsidy. I was surprised by the question asked by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  in the chamber a few weeks ago when he sought protection from the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  for New South Wales apple growers against the inroads of Tasmanian apple growers. This is a spin-off result. The Tasmanian members of the Government ought to get together with the New South Wales members to sort out the position. The first point I make about the estimates for the Department of Transport is that there is little time in 10 minutes to try to look at the pages of information available on the Department of Transport which points up the total inadequacy of this kind of system. 
I am keeping something for the Minister. The particular point I want to bring before him is the subject of Connair Pty Ltd. He has been very forthright in his blunderbuss approach to negotiations or any talk about Connair. Yesterday he put out a Press release. I ask him in his reply to clarify the last sentence of it. Having talked about negotiations taking place over a tentative basis of compromise, he says: 
In that event, talks would continue with a view to maintaining essential air services in the Northern Territory and minimising employment opportunities for the pilots and other staff employed by the company. 
I ask the Minister to specify whether that means he will do his very best to get rid of as many pilots as possible and to reduce the service as much as he can. 
I am sorry. The Minister says he has tried to correct it. I can only read from information submitted to me. 
I have not received a copy of it. I happen to be a member of the public and I have been asked this question by a member of the Press. What does the Minister mean? In addition, in the 16 years since Connair has been in operation, over $8.2m - 
The subsidy has been paid for 16 years. Including the provision for this year it totals $8.2m. I think a lot more information needs to come before the Parliament in respect of the operation of the company. I ask honourable members to look at the evidence submitted before the Senate Estimates Committee C last week when the estimates for the Department of Transport were examined to see how difficult it is to get information about actual operations. Many of the questions were neatly side-stepped. A great deal of public money has been paid to Connair. Now, as the pilots put it, the proprietors can take a unilateral decision. I would like to ask the Minister to reflect upon this and to clarify the situation as to whether the proprietors or the management can take a unilateral decision to close down the operation without reference to government and without reference to the people who are served by that airline. 
I am urging the opposite. I say that the company has a public responsibility because of the large input of public funds and that it would be improper if the company could take a unilateral decision in that respect. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was referring to the Minister's Press release of 1 1 October wherein he referred to minimising employment opportunities for pilots and other staff of Connair. I want to draw his attention to the report of the  Australian Financial Review  of today's date where that same information is repeated. Whilst the Minister may claim that there is some correction, I again put to him that he ought to clarify for the people of the Northern Territory whether he intends to reduce the range of services provided by Connair, whether he intends to reduce the number of services, and whether there is to be an extension of service, a maintenance of service or a reduction in the number of pilots. 
Speaking to the Connair question, I mentioned earlier that $8.2m had been paid in subsidy to Connair since 1961-62. Item 08 of subdivision 3 of division 655 of the estimates for the Department of Transport refers to retrospective grants of subsidy in respect of Connair for the years 1974-75 of $50,000 and for 1975-76 of $83,000. I should like the Minister to give some explanation to the Committee of what I see as a most unusual practice. I have no knowledge of a subsidy in the past being granted on a retrospective basis going back 2 years. No information was put to Parliament even though Parliament was sitting at the time and no publicity has been given to it in any of the statements by the Minister, unusual as the item is. It is tucked away on page 40 of the estimates. If one takes the $133,000 provided there and the $550,000 provided to Connair as subsidy in the current year and the $298,000 provided to Connair under subdivision 5 of division 957 as loan, the total for this yeareven though the financial year is different, the calendar year is the same- is $981,300. That is almost $lm. Yet we have a situation where, because of the Minister's blunderbus approach to industrial relations, the airline threatens unilaterally to close down the service. It should be borne in mind that there is a substantial public loan to the company and that in the years since 1961-62, $8.2m will have been paid to the company. I think it is something that bears public examination. I know that an interdepartmental committee is looking at it and I hope that the Minister will elaborate on the information to which I have referred. 
I should now like to refer to the starring requirements covered in Budget Paper No. 4 which provides for a reduction of 340 in the staff of the Civil Aviation Division. Whilst the Minister has told me in reply to a question on notice that the reduction is by wastage and has to do with the non-replacement of non-essential positions, I think honourable members would benefit from a definition of a 'non-essential position' and of an 'essential position'. If one looks at the numbers of staff for each of the divisions of the Department of Transport, we find that overall it is projected that there will be a 3 per cent reduction in average staffing in the coming year. In respect of civil aviation operations the reduction is 4. 1 per cent. I should like to tie that figure in with the information the Minister has given me on the causal factors of aircraft accidents in general aviation. It is very interesting to note that, of the 1464 causal factors in the last 5 years to 1975, 250 relate to airframe factors, power plant factors or other airworthiness factors. I put to the Committee that there is serious ground for diquiet at to what this Government is doing in the airworthiness division of the Department. I have raised this matter before. I have said that during the June quarter two out of the three positions dealing with airworthiness directives were not filled. The Minister has not responded to the comment I made at that time. I should like him to respond later this evening, in particular in relation to those items which I have just mentioned. They are covered under Question No. 1 172 of the House of Representatives  Hansard. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many accidents involving general aviation aircraft have occurred in Australia in each of the last 5 years. 
How many of these accidents were attributed officially to (a) pilot error, (b) medical reasons, (c) technical defects and (d) unknown causes. 
Of those accidents attributable to pilot error, on which occasions were medical services, including aviation pathology, utilised in the investigation to examine the possibility that a physical condition was the basic reason for the error. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did he tell me in answer to question No. 933  (Hansard,  21 September 1976, page 1272) relating to the Bureau of Transport Economics' report on proposals to develop Townsville Airport, that the report is presently being printed by the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
Will he undertake to table the report. 
How many copies of the report has his Department ordered from the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
What shipbuilding financial concessions and allowances are available in Japan to Australian companies which have ships constructed in that country? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he tell me in answer to question No. 35  (Hansard,  17 March 1976, page 767) that the costs of Lockheed Electra LI 88 aircraft purchased by TAA and delivered on the dates shown, were as follows: 
24 June 1959, $ 1.946m, (b) 19 July 1959, $ 1.954m, and (c) 19 August 1960,$2,039m. 
Has his attention been drawn to the answer to a question on notice given by the Minister for Civil Aviation on 15 March 1962  (Hansard,  pages 938-9) that the costs of the Electras purchased by TAA were $3. 1 72m each for the first 2 aircraft and $2.568m for the third aircraft. 
If so, what are the reasons for differences in the information he has supplied and that supplied by his predecessor in 1962. 
-Last Tuesday the Committee of the Whole discussed the estimates for the Department of Transport. Traditionally Parliaments are the watchdogs of the exchequer and the protectors of the public purse. This is enshrined in section 83 of the Constitution which states: 
No money shall be drawn from the Treasury of the Commonwealth except under appropriation made by law. 
Traditionally examination of the Estimates has been the function of the Committee of the Whole. It is that Committee which should provide the opportunity for the Parliament to examine in detail the proposed expenditure and the reasons for the items of expenditure proposed. On Tuesday the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  made a farce of that examination. During the debate I sought from the Minister supporting information on various items of expenditure. Not only did he refuse to supply the information sought for the Parliament but in an intemperate outburst attacked me in his usual blundering and blustering way for having dared to seek information on items of transport expenditure. I do not mind his personal abuse and outbursts but I do strenuously object to his refusal to tell the Parliament why he is seeking $874. lm of taxpayers' funds. Clearly he regards the Parliament as being irrelevant, as does his Government, but the people of Australia expect the Parliament to seek out the details of how and why their money is to be spent. I ask him for information on the $50,000 and $83,333 paid to Connair Pty Ltd in 1974-75 and 1975-76 under division 655.3.08. He did not know the answer. He blustered his way through it. He could have provided the information. After all, there was a Cabinet decision and he is a member of the Cabinet. Surely as a member of the Cabinet he ought to have been aware of the reasons for the expenditure. In his blustering way he suggested that we look it up in the Parliamentary Library. But if he had known the information he could have supplied it; if he did not know it he could have sought it from the 5 advisers behind him at the time. Up to this point the Parliament still has not been told. I believe this is because of his increasing incompetence. We saw the farce last weekwhat was said now appears in  Hansard-  when the Minister was asked a Dorothy Dix question. 
He is one Minister who could not answer a question unless he wrote the question himself.  His  colleagues cannot ask questions unless they have been prepared by the Minister. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member for Evans has been in the House long enough to know that that is not a point of order. While the honourable member for Shortland has introduced new subject matter into his speech and the figures that he used perhaps had to be used to establish relevance I would ask him to make sure that he does not revive the debate that took place yesterday on the estimates for the Department of Transport. 
-I will not advert to the debate. I was going to refer to the Press release that went out on Tuesday when the Minister called for the minimisation of employment opportunities for pilots. He later claimed that he had corrected that and the word should have been 'maximisation'. The Minister has today released another Press statement relating to the Adelaide to Crystal Brook rail standardisation project, which states: 
There is an urgent need for the Government to determine the future direction of the Adelaide to Crystal Brook project 
Surely after all these years the Minister knows the distance between Adelaide and Crystal Brook, or is the line to be re-drawn? 
What I say to the Parliament is that all Ministers have a responsibility to provide the Parliament with information, particularly in relation to money matters. It is not their prerogative to deny that information, particularly in discussion of the estimates. I refer the Minister again to page 1 352 of  Hansard  which records that I sought information which he has refused to give. This is information to which the Parliament is entitled and which I ask him to supply to the Parliament and the people of Australia in order to justify the expenditure that is proposed by this Government. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the purpose of his visit to Europe from 12 June to 2 July 1976. 
What are the names, classifications and salaries of each member of the party who accompanied him. 
) What are the names of the places visited. 
What official consultations were undertaken. 
What was the cost for each member of the party for (a) travel both between Australia and Europe and within Europe, (b) accommodation and (c) other incidentals. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did he tell me in answer to Question No. 931 (Hansard, 21 September 1976, page 1272) relating to the extension of the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme to southbound cargoes that he would be making an announcement as soon as details of the scheme have been finalised. 
) When does he anticipate details of the scope and levels of assistance for southbound cargoes will be completed. 
Is it proposed that the subsidy on southbound cargoes will be funded from Division 959 of expenditure on the Department of Transport, if not, from what source will funds be made available. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Was a  Mr Richard  Cobden in possession of a TAA Canberra to Sydney flight ticket on 20 May 1976 that enabled him to travel from Canberra to Sydney on that date and which was charged to the High Court of Australia; if so, why. 
We have heard a pathetic contribution from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who ought to know better and who ought to be able to make a better contribution in this chamber. I ask the Parliament: Where is the Minister who is responsible for this matter? The Minister responsible for this matter is the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  not the Minister for Transport. The Minister for Transport is concerned only with whom and where the Australian National Line orders its ships. Throughout this exercise the Minister for Industry and Commerce has been hiding behind the skirts of the Minister for Transport. Obviously there is a union bashing job to be done. The Minister for Transport is recorded as being the champion at that. The Minister said that the Government was adopting the policy of the former Labor Government. Labor's policy was designed for a boom shipbuilding year. It was designed for the preenergy crisis. We are now in the depths of a postenergy crisis and a world depression in shipbuilding. I repeat the words of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  He said: 'It is a scheme of industrial blackmail, dreamed up in the back seat of a Mercedes by 2 wealthy graziers who, only a matter of a few months before, voted themselves a superphosphate bounty'. Here we have all this bleating and humbug that men should work harder. The  Chairman  of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council,  Dr Lang,  said: 
Council also emphasises that the threat of massive unemployment in the industry- 
He was referring to shipbuilding-  should not be taken seriously. 
I wish he would go to Newcastle and tell that to the mothers, the daughters and the sons who are looking for jobs. I recall the day when this matter was first debated in the Parliament. The Minister for Transport assured the Parliament that the Japanese were to sign contracts to build these Australian ships that evening, and that they had not been signed because of some technicality about the Loan Council. I put it to honourable members that he misled the House on that occasion. I do not believe that the Japanese will ever sign the contracts. I believe that they have more wisdom and that they are looking further down the road than are Government supporters. The Minister talked about shipbuilding policy. Let us look at his policy. This is what he said just over 12 months ago. I do not need to make a speech; I need simply to put the point he made to the Parliament. 
-I will quote the Minister for Transport. He said: 
One of the means by which the Australian shipbuilding industry can increase its productivity ... is through the modernisation and updating of shipbuilding facilities. This will require an injection of substantial capital . . . 
He said that on 3 June last year. He went on to say: 
The basic problem of the Australian shipbuilding industry is that of a market. There has not been a stable market in Australia for shipbuilders. 
The Minister then said: 
For the industry to be efficient and competitive it must have confidence, and to have the confidence which is necessary to ensure the large injection of capital there must be some continuity of markets. 
Perhaps this should be like the continuity of markets we have had in the last 10 months. The Minister went on further and said: 
Although our labour costs are expensive by world standards Australia has the cheapest steel in the world. I also believe that the type of vessel most used in Australian waters and in the Australian export trade could easily be constructed here on a mass production basis. I am referring to a bulk carrier in the 25 000 to 30 000 dead weight tons range. 
Being the Opposition spokesman on shipping he then said: 
The Opposition believes that the only way in which a healthy Australian shipbuilding and shipping industry will be brought about is through the provision of liberal credit and depreciation arrangements which recognise the special risk involved in ship owning. 
They are the very matters that he just rubbished when they were put forward by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I do not need to put forward any arguments other than to repeat to the Minister his own propositions which he made a matter of 20 weeks before he became the Minister. He had the responsibility and opportunities to do something about this matter long before February of this year. The problems of the shipbuilding industry were not caused by the Labor Government. They were caused originally by the lack of a shipbuilding policy during the period 1960 to 1972. The Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales presided over the dockyard in Newcastle for 12 years. That Government did nothing about the injection of new capital or updating plant. For 12 years there was no clear industry policy or there were no clear guidelines to enable the necessary investment to be made. 
I mentioned the proposition about a deal being done in the back seat of a Mercedes. I put it to the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Transport sat down and thought up a proposition which they were certain would not be accepted. They hoped like the devil that it would not be accepted so they could then be in a position to say that they had made a proposition. That is the kind of proposition that they put forward. It is very interesting to note that they did not put forward a similar proposition to the suppliers of materials to the dockyards. They did not say: 'The men are prepared to accept a moratorium on strikes and a freeze on wages. In the interests of the permanency of the industry we ask you, the suppliers of materials to the industry, to accept a freeze on the price of materials'. That has not been mentioned. The Government is not concerned about that. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is the major supplier of materials to the industry. That shows the transparency of the proposition put forward by the Minister for Transport and the Prime Minister. 
We have had false accusations and exaggerations about and denigration of the people working in the dockyards. They have been named and maligned as if they are some kind of foreign being. They have been referred to as lazy people. If the Industries Assistance Commission had looked at the submission from the Hunter Valley Research Foundation it very quickly would have seen that it is an extremely difficult exercise to compare productivity in shipbuilding and that, depending upon the definition one wants to use, one can get the result that one wants to achieve. The IAC referred to delivery times, but there was no mention by it of the fact that the difference in delivery times is affected mainly by the availability of steel. In Japan one can obtain steel on 3 months' notice. In Australia a minimum of 6 months'- more likely 9 months'- notice is involved. That is the BHP's baby and not that of the dockyard workers. 
We heard about the New South Wales Government purchasing a new floating dock overseas. The price of the new floating dock purchased overseas was sought by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It is a tragedy to the industry that the Minister referred to that in the way that he did a few minutes ago. It shows his lack of understanding of the industry. Back bench members of the Government's shipbuilding industry committee went to Newcastle and Whyalla before presenting a phantom report. I call it that because nobody has sighted it. I do not know why the devil they went there and wasted the taxpayers' money. If they had any inkling about or understanding of the industry they would know that a dockyard work force goes from designing to the last section of outfitting, that various different skills are involved and that there has to be continuity in the work flow. One could not just put down everything and build a dock. If one were to build one in Newcastle one would be building it in 10 sections, which would bring about all sorts of problems. While one was doing that the rest of the work force would have fallen apart. The industry would have collapsed long beforehand. So that remark by the Minister only illustrates his lack of understanding of and contempt for the industry. 
I am sorry that the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  and the. honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  are not present this afternoon to stand up and evidence their support of the matter before the House. Their electorates are also vitally affected by this matter. The Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton,  and the Minister for Transport were invited to Newcastle for the launching of the  Flinders Range.  Both conveniently were unable to accept the invitation. Where is  Senator Cotton,  who is the Minister responsible for this matter? He has not been sighted in Newcastle. He has not been sighted in the shipyards. He has not been making any statements about this matter. The Minister for Transport has been doing the dirty work for him- the union bashing. There has been a failure by the Government to commit itself to the retention of the Australian shipbuilding industry. I do not trust this Government and I do not believe that the dockyard workers trust this Government. Since the beginning of February we have been told by the Government that it will consider the matter. I cannot repeat the greeting that I received from the Minister for Industry and Commerce when I took the first delegation to him as it is not printable in  Hansard. 
I want to enter into a discussion on one other aspect, that is, the fact that no reference has been made to devaluation in all of the comparisons of figures by the IAC. During the post-energy crisis Japan devalued heavily. We revalued. We slightly devalued again. The net result has been the showing of a distinct advantage in terms of prices for Japanese products. I do not think it is a matter of whether we will devalue now; I think it is just a matter of when we will devalue. No consideration has been given to that. If we were to devalue our currency by 15 per cent the price of the Japanese constructed ships would rise to $43.7m. If we were to devalue our currency by 1 8 per cent it would be $44.8m and if we were to devalue it by 20 per cent it would be $45.6m. The net price quoted by the Newcastle State Dockyard- the current price- is $44.75m. So let us do away with the argument about there being a difference in the net costs. That does not exist. What is involved is politics. It is a matter of political priorities. Money is available for a superphosphate bounty for Cabinet Ministers but no money is available for the men employed in the metal trades union. Why is that so? Because the Government is determined to expand the unemployment situation and to keep up the level of the expanded unemployment situation. To force a reduction in real wages, it has to defuse the militant unions. Why does it not be honest with the people and put its cards on the table? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. He will recall his recent discussions in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics with  Mr Guzhenko  and  Mr Bugayev  the Minister for Civil Aviation in the U.S.S.R., and the recent statement about greatly increased prospects for Soviet-Far East trade with Australia. During those discussions were the activities of Fesco, the Soviet shipping line, and the proposition concerning landing rights for Aeroflot in Australia raised? Can he inform the House of the result of the discussions and the implications for the European Conference lines? 
-The purpose of the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1976 is to provide $20m to assist the States to meet cost increases on projects already approved under the terms of the Urban Public Transport Agreement. Under the Agreement acceptable cost increases can occur either through variations to an approved project agreed to by the Minister and relevant State Ministers or through increases in the cost of labour and materials. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech sought to give a false impression of the magnitude and source of the funds being made available for urban public transport this year by his Government. He stated that $44.6m would be made available from existing appropriations, that is the State Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974 and the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974, plus the $20m this Bill provides, totalling in all $64.6m. 
I draw the attention of the House to Budget Paper No. 4, where on page 38 it lists the special appropriations and estimated expenditure for 1976-77 as follows: State Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974, $25.3m; Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974, $33.8mthese two appropriations total $59.1m- and Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1976, $5.5m. The latter is the Act which will follow the passage of this Bill. All told this makes a total of $64.6m. This means that only $5.5m is to be made available from the funds appropriated by this Bill. It may be that the Department of Transport will argue that it can determine from which Act the moneys will be paid to the States. But I am sure the Department of the Treasury will be vigilant to see that moneys are paid out in strict accordance with the Budget documents. Again we see a paltry exercise in figure juggling by the Government in an attempt to conceal the true situation. I am quite confident that when the Department of Transport, as the year progresses, goes to the Treasury to get a warrant for the expenditure of payments to the States, it will have to comply with the Budget documents because they detail and authorise the expenditure. 
The total result of $64.6m does not make any difference. The difference is that the Department, the Minister or the Minister's staff, through sloppiness in the actual approach to money matters or by deliberate intent have not presented an accurate record to the Parliament of how the expenditure is to be financed. The correct method is as is set out on page 38 of Budget Paper No. 4 so that the 2 existing Acts will be totally consumed and only $S.Sm of this appropriation will be used, leaving a carry-forward into the year 1977-78 of $ 14.5m. In his speech the Minister claimed that the $64.6m made available this year was an increase of 90 per cent over the $33.8m actually paid to the States in 1975-76. What he did not state was that last year's Hayden Budget provided $40.3m for urban public transport plus an escalation grant of $2.5m, making a total of $42.8m. In February of this year the Minister cancelled the $2.5m escalation grant and reduced the urban public transport appropriation by $2m. This was a total reduction of $4.5m. In addition, there was an underspending of $4.4m from the year 1975-76, so of the original allocation of $42. 8m, only $33.9m was expended. This is a difference of $8.9m. As I pointed out earlier, the Budget documents show the correct source of the $64.6m for urban public transport as $59. lm being the residue of the Acts legislated by the Whitlam Labor Government and $5. 5m from this 
Government and this Bill. Against that $5.5m must be set off the $8.9m originally provided by the Whitlam Government but not utilised by this Government in the year 1975-76.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  an extract from Budget Paper No. 4, 

<graphic href="101131197610214_51_1.jpg"></graphic>

table 54, setting out grants under urban public transport. 
-Has the Prime Minister received a written request from the Minister for Transport asking him to participate in an extravagant ceremony at or near Albury-Wodonga to mark the erection of signs distinguishing the national highway route? Does he agree with the assertion by the Minister for Transport in his letter that the introduction of the signs warrants widespread publicity? Given the heavy reduction in escalation grants for road funding in this year's Budget, has the Prime Minister agreed to the request? If so, how does he justify such waste? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What financial concessions and allowances are made available by the United Kingdom Government to Australian owners of ships registered in the United Kingdom or Hong Kong. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What are the names, classification and salaries of the Public Service engineer and senior economist who have been appointed to assist  Dr Stewart  Joy with the inquiry into the Tasmanian Railway system. 
Will the proceedings of the inquiry be public; if not, why not. 
Will he table the report of the inquiry in the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design be asked to make a formal approach to individual vehicle companies requesting detailed cost information and other relevant information for the purposes of design rule formulation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design be asked to undertake research with a view to designing vehicles, particularly family type vehicles, to enable the fitting of approved child restraints. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that there be a complete review and rationalisation of the relevance and adequacy of the Draft Regulations which detail minimum standards for most aspects of vehicle construction. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Bureau of Road Safety co-ordinate the functions of the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance, the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design and the Standards Association of Australia to avoid duplication in the formulation of standards. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Bureau of Road Safety be asked to establish formal access to vehicle company plants for quality control observation and develop a system of monitoring quality control standards. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that design rule proposals be publicised and comment be invited during the 90 day period. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Design Rule Committee come within the Bureau of Road Safety's jurisdiction and that the Bureau of Road Safety be developed as the principal body for formulating standards and recommending proposed Australian Design Rules to the Australian Transport Advisory Council for approval. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What were the rates charged by the Australian National Line and other shipping companies on the various categories of freight, both bulk and non-bulk, between mainland ports and each of the ports in Tasmania (a) southbound and (b) Northbound as at (i) 30 June 1976 and (ii) 3 1 July 1976. 
What was the (a) amount and (b) percentage of the alteration of the freight rate in each category. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether a  Mr Richard  Cobden travelled by TAA from Canberra to Sydney on 20 May 1 976. 
If so, was the charge for the ticket on which he travelled made out to the High Court of Australia. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What directorships were held by  Mr K.  A. Aickin, Q.C., before he was appointed to the High Court. 
Do High Court Justices declare their financial interests. 
-The purpose of clause 1 of the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill 1976 is to introduce legislation for the new financial arrangements for the sharing of revenue from personal income tax collections between the Federal Government and State governments and through the State governments to local governments. It also seeks to implement the main sections of the Fraser Government's centralist federalism policy. In short, the Bill is an answer to a Federal politician's dream because its idea is to off-load on to the State Governments all the onerous, contentious and unpopular revenue gathering activities and responsibilities and so blame them on the States, and all the easy programs - 
It is extremely difficult to try to put a pertinent comment on the legislation before the chamber. The Government already has gagged debate on what is claimed to be important legislation. If the Government Whip would exercise a little flexibility and understanding I am sure that the passage of this legislation would flow much more easily through this chamber and there would be a more conciliatory atmosphere in the chamber. I suggest seriously to honourable members opposite that something be done about the Government Whip before he disrupts completely procedures. 
-I thank you,  Mr Chairman,  for your lucid comments on this matter. In my earlier remarks, I was responding to the comment that you made earlier. It seems that Government supporters, particularly the Government Whip and the  Deputy  Government Whip, are determined in any way possible to deny to Opposition members the opportunity to discuss this legislation. 
-If I could get the opportunity, and if the Committee knew what it was doing - 
-The purpose of the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill and the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill is- 
Motion (byMrBourchier) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Hurford's  amendment) stand part of the question. 
It is a pity that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  spends most of his time deprecating the tremendous efforts of the Premier of Tasmania in trying to reduce the level of unemployment in that State, trying to do good things in Tasmania to make it a better State and trying to ensure that Tasmania gets a proper share of Federal revenue. It is not getting a proper share under this Government. 
-It is utter rubbish, in the words of the honourable member for Denison, to suggest that the funds being made available to Tasmanian local government this year represent an increase. The funds in total untied revenue grants to Australia as a whole may represent an increase. But the total funds made available to local government last year amounted to $2 72.5m. This year they total $ 195.3m. I do not know what the mathematics of the honourable member or the Government are, but that is a substantial decrease- a decrease of the order of 30 per cent. Although supporters of the Government may fool themselves some of the time it is no good their trying to fool the people. The severe reduction in funds to local government this year will have an impact on councils throughout Australia. The honourable member might sit in this ivory tower and pretend to himself that this reduction will not have an impact on ratepayers. But I can assure him that it will. He can try as much as he likes to convince people that expenditure has increased. But they know that local government will get only $195m in total this year as compared with $272m in total last year. 
The honourable member for Denison had much to say about the credentials of  Mr Bingham  and how he would have handled this situation. I would remind Tasmanians and the honourable member for Denison that the Leader of the Liberal Party in Tasmania is on record as saying that he is absolutely opposed to this Government's approach and the proposals that it has in mind for the stevedoring industry. That is just an example of the unanimity and the accord - 
-It is absolutely correct. That is an example of the unanimity and the accord that exists between the supposed Tasmanian Liberal leader and this Government. They are at war. I would have thought that Tasmanian members in this national Parliament, rising above party politics, would want to support the efforts of the present Tasmanian Government to raise the level of economic activity and employment in Tasmania. I am sorry that they are opposed to that objective because additional funds to local government would mean that the Tasmanian Government could do just that. Local government is one .area in which an injection of funds very quickly results in an increase in activity and an increase in employment opportunities. 
Local government throughout Australia is disappointed with this legislation because the national approach of the Grants Commission to local government has been ended. The record of the conservative parties, State and Federal, has been one of absolute opposition to an increased and expanded voice for local government. It was only when the Labor Government came to office as a result of the 1972 election, followed by the 1974 election, that the conservative parties realised that they had to take into account the voice of local government. Let us recount the record of conservative parties in respect of local government. It was the Whitlam Government that proposed that local government be represented at the Constitutional Convention. The conservative parties said: ' No, we cannot have that'. It was then proposed that the local government units be represented on the Loan Council for the very simple reason that it would have meant that local government would have been able to borrow loan funds on the Australian loan market cheaper than at present and for a longer period. Thus a lesser burden would have been placed on ratepayers, and all ratepayers are in some way or another taxpayers. The Government seems to forget that fact. It seems to think that it can distinguish between ratepayers and taxpayers. 
When the Whitlam Government put a referendum to the people that local government ought to be able to receive funds direct from the Federal government the conservative parties, State and Federal, in concert absolutely opposed that proposition. They campaigned against it, and that referendum question was defeated. Now members of the conservative parties come into the chamber suddenly realising the importance of local government. They want to hop on the bandwagon. They come into the chamber and say: 'We will reduce funds that local government received in the last year of the Whitlam Government from $274.3m to $ 195.3m, which is a decrease of 30 per cent, but we want local government to believe that the allocation of $ 140m in untied grants is an increase of 75 per cent. We wish local government would understand that'. They are not fooling anybody. Government Ministers may have fooled their back benchers and honourable members opposite might juggle thenown figures, but the actual funds allocated to local government this year from the federal government are 30 per cent less than last year. Local government was led to believe by this Government that it would receive 2 per cent of general tax revenue. Local government will receive under this proposal about 1.5 per cent. 
Let me return to the national approach to local government that the Whitlam Government brought into effect. For the first time in Australian history with the expansion of the activities of the Grants Commission in 1973 there was an analysis of all local governments in Australiathe whole 899 of them. There was an analysis and comparison of the quality of services provided by local government, a comparison of the standard of services and a comparison of the range of services, but naturally everything was opposed. Even the expansion of the Grants Commission 's role was opposed by those who sit opposite. For the first time with the expanded role of the Grants Commission under  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell we started to get a proper view of the role, functions and services that local government provided. People began to see how important local government is. 
In many ways I think that local government is more important than Federal and State governments. Local government is close to the people. It sees very quickly the results of its activities, its deficiencies and its shortcomings as well as its credits for the things that it does which are worth while. The people have more contact with local government. For those reasons, as our urban areas develop, local government should have an expanded and increasing role. The role that the Grants Commission started to develop for local government was a long overdue recognition of the responsibility and value of local government. The Grants Commission set the standard with a grant of $56m in the year 1 974-75. It was the first time that local government units throughout Australia were asked to put a submission to the Federal Government. They were asked to relate their deficiencies, their problems with sparsity of population, problems associated with their areas and problems associated with the servicing of the council regions. We wanted to assess the needs in the national view and see what local governments were entitled to from the Federal Government when their priorities, deficiencies and disadvantages were evaluated alongside those of all other councils in the nation. That was only the beginning. 
In the second year the grant rose to $80m and untied grants were assessed on a needs basis. Local government started to warm to the operation and to understand it. At last we started to move towards developing a national approach, a national evaluation and a national set of standards to give a lead in local government to see that ratepayers in all councils received similar basic services. This is not the present situation. Some local government areas have quite a range of services that are not available in neighbouring local government areas. The Grants Commission was in only the second year of that very valuable and much needed role in giving local government an expanded voice in developing a national approach to the needs of local government. This legislation will destroy all that by setting up 6 State commissions which, by their nature, cannot have a national view. It must be a State view within a State. There are no comparisons available with other areas. There is no recognition of the difference between local government from area to area. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I appreciate the opportunity to try once again to bring the back bench members of the Government away from their Alice in Wonderland fantasy and back to the world of reality. It does not matter how they try to juggle their little items of $6m or how they try to add up the figures. It does not matter which Budget Paper they want to look at. I will speak slower. I can write it down so that even their Whip will be able to understand it. The comparison is this: In 1 975-76, local government under the total range of programs received from the Whitlam Labor Government $272.5m. This year, taking into account the reductions, the increases and the amendments, the total amount of funding from this Fraser centralist Government to local government will be $195m, a reduction of 30 per cent. Honourable members opposite can do their sums. But there are shire clerks, town clerks, aldermen and shire councillors who know that the amount they will receive this year from the Federal Government is considerably less. They will be reporting to their electorates later. They also have rate payers and taxpayers to whom they will report. Honourable members opposite can engage in their Alice in Wonderland fantasies, but the facts are that the amount of money made available by this Government to local government in the current financial year represents a 30 per cent reduction. 
-I am dealing in the total figures because that is the proper comparison to put to the Minister. Even the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is having considerable difficulty in relating the decrease in expenditure from $272. 5m to local government under the Whitlam Government to the $195m made available to local government by this Government. What this Government is seeking to do under this Bill and the previous Bill is to opt out of community responsibilities, to push back on to local government and the States financial responsibility for programs that were initiated in a number of cases, particularly in community services, many years ago by previous LiberalNational Country Party governments. The present breed of Liberal and National Country Party politician wants to change all that. He has some idea that what is being introduced is revolutionary. Revolutionary, as I hear from honourable members opposite, usually denotes something that involves a gun and plenty of blood. That is not much short of what this legislation is in respect to local government. The federalism honourable members opposite talk about is, in effect, coercive federalism because the 2 other parties concerned- local government and State government are not here. They do not have any expression on this. Honourable members opposite are telling them what to do. The nation saw over the last few days their reaction to what honourable members opposite are trying to present as being something that has unanimity in the 3 levels  of  government. Honourable members opposite know that that is not the case. It is a deliberate misrepresentation. I ought to mention Queensland because the Queensland Government was the Government which virtually danced on the corpse of a deceased Labor senator and brought about the infamous events of last year. 
The Minister ought to look me in the eye. But that is history and it does not matter how honourable members opposite try to wish it away, it will not go away. So much does the Queensland Government think of this Government's proposal that the Queensland Minister for Justice went away post-haste- even leaving his private secretary on Hayman Island- to London with the parliamentary counsel. I understand that their instructions have been telexed to them. Obviously they are seeking a way around this legislation to ensure that the Queensland ratepayers and taxpayers in future get a proper share of federal revenue. That is the Minister's own State, the base all honourable members opposite want and the base they all talk so much about. However, Queensland can see the features of coercive federalism that this legislation represents. This legislation decreases the voice of local government and the funding to local government and ties local government to a formula which the Government decides in its party room. Honourable members opposite come in here and want to present it as something it is not. 
Let us look at the situation in Canada. Honourable members opposite talk about Canada, which is supposed to be the  Utopia  of federalism. In Canada the tax rates between provinces- and this flows onto local government so is relevant to the Bill- range from a surcharge as honourable members opposite have chosen to call it, or double income tax, of 30.5 per cent in some provinces to 42.5 per cent in other provinces. That represents a considerable variation. Is that the kind of thing honourable members opposite want to happen in Australia? Do they want people to migrate to other States and to show their income in other States because the surcharge or State income tax there will be lower than in the State in which they earned the income? Is that the kind of efficiency they want? 
Now what about centralisation of company taxes? For over a long period company taxes have been gathered by the Treasury on a gradually refined centralised basis. Under this legislation the State income taxes when introduced on 1 July next year will be applicable to individuals, sole traders and partnerships; but not company taxes. So what then - 
The honourable member for Barton can explain company taxes although probably he has not thought about it. He wants to defend what the Government is doing in this legislation but the fact of the matter is that he has not looked at the situation at all for sole traders and partnerships are to be discriminated against a result of this legislation. 
The honourable member for Higgins says that it is rubbish. Let him go back to the sole traders and partnerships in his electorate and explain to them why he thinks the situation which will apply after 1 July next year is rubbish and why he thinks they ought to be discriminated against. The other thing which the Government has taken away from local government, and I speak of my own local experience in the Hunter region, is regional representation. We have 899 separate little, middle sized, big and bigger local government units throughout this nation of a population of less than 14 million. The Whitlam Government drew those units together and asked them to come together in groupings. They formed their own regional groupings. 
-Not groupers. If the honourable member for Swan wants to be a grouper that is his problem, not mine. It has nothing to do with local government. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs says that he is a grouper too. Well, I do not mind that either. 
-I wish the Minister would not interrupt and repeat to me that he is a grouper. I do not want to listen to him. I want to continue to debate the Bill. The regional groupings which came together under the legislation of the previous Government gave local government the opportunity to come together, to share and plan together those kinds of projects that have significance for more than just one local government area. There are many situations like that. For too long in this nation local government has developed as 899 separate entities when in many hundreds of cases those separate endues ought to have been operating together and sharing capital equipment, the cost of administration, the cost of services provided to the community and the general increase in the standard of living that has occurred throughout the nation over the past half century. Instead this Government has torn down all that and has destroyed the whole concept of regionalism. It has sent back to the States the determination of funding for local government and for the regional groupings which were functioning. 
I realise when honourable members opposite criticise regional groupings that for quite a number of years the New South Wales Government has been trying to draw together local government units into regional groupings for the same reason I have mentioned, that is, ease of administration, economy of administration and an improvement in the quality of services to the ratepayers and taxpayers. However, honourable members opposite do not want those things. What they want is to offload their responsibility as a federal government and to get rid of the nasty tasks. They want the answer to a federal politician's dream of not having to be responsible for contentious problems. Instead they will be responsible for the reintroduction of a double income tax in this country- a proposition that Liberal-Country Party Premiers rejected in 1 95 1 when taxing powers were offered to them by the then Prime Minister Menzies. Now honourable members opposite will be the heroes who will reintroduce State income tax, or double income tax, which will vary from State to State. That is the kind of revolution they are bringing about. It is retrograde, regressive and against the national interest. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clauses, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
-The amendments moved by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  arise from the reaction of the State governments to the initial proposals of the Government. It is all very well for the Minister to suggest to the Committee that those amendments fully cover the requests of the States. The fact is that the Government attempted to put through the legislation in its original form and so bring about an extension of the big brother philosophy they are forcing on the States and local government. I do not want to take up the time of the Committee by reiterating those points which I made earlier in this regard. But I make the point, with regard to the submission of the amounts that have been determined by the Grants Commission, that we had a Grants Commission functioning efficiently, effectively and fairly on a national basis; now in its place State Grants Commissions are to be foisted upon the States which do not want them. The States do not wish to establish Grants Commission. There has been genuine opposition by State governments to that proposal. But it is now being forced down their throats by the Government because it wants to offload its responsibility. For the benefit of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson),  I take up the point again that no matter how he tries to convince himself and no matter how Government back benchers try to convince themselves, the fact is that in this current year the total funding by the Government to local government in specific purpose grants and untied grants is reduced by 30 per cent, when compared with local government funding in the last year of the Whitlam Government. 
-I wish the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  would go to his place when he interjects. He is only delaying the Committee. 
The legislation in no way provides for an increase in the amount of funds available to local government. The decrease in funding available this year as compared with last year is 30 per cent. If there is an increase in later years, it will be an increase in absolute terms. But m real terms, because of the indexation provisions, it is certain that there will be no increase of funding for local government unless there is a change in the present proposal. 
-If I knew what electorate the honourable member came from I would consign him to the rubbish heap, too. If that is his contribution to a debate on important legislation, he should know better. There is considerable provocation in the chamber, again from the  Deputy  Government Whip who was responsible for the considerable debacle in the Committee earlier this evening and who is seeking again to interrupt me. I wish he would restrain himself. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The Committee is not concerned with prior incidents. 
-It is extremely difficult to speak directly to the subject without interruption from the Deputy Government Whip. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! There are far too many interruptions. 
-I thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  for your protection from the  Deputy  Government Whip. As I said earlier, although the Minister says that there is an increase in funding for local government, that is not the case. He knows it is not the case. I conclude by saying that this proposition is so good that the Government of Queensland has sent its Minister for Justice to London to find a way around it. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill, as amended, agreed to. Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-The purpose of the Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill is to amend the Air Navigation Charges Act 1952 firstly so as to increase by 15 per cent the charges levied under the Act for services provided to aircraft operators by the Department of Transport. These services include items such as airway facilities, the use of aerodromes, meteorological, search and rescue services. Secondly the Bill introduces a new concept of charges for international flights arriving or departing from Australia related to the actual distances flown within Australia and implementing the user pays principle. Thirdly, the Bill provides for an interest charge of 10 per cent to be levied on accounts which are 45 days overdue. Fourthly, provision is made for altered procedures in respect of adjustments for pre-paid fees on the sale of aircraft and minor procedural amendments related to the administration of the air navigation charges scheme. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. However, there are several points that the Opposition wishes to bring to the notice of the Australian community. This Bill provides for the second increase of 15 per centin air navigation charges within 12 months. It is a direct repudiation of the policy of the conservative parties when in Opposition. So that there is no misunderstanding I will quote directly from their policy when they were in Opposition. The policy states: 
Because of the serious and detrimental effect the 80 per cent recovery policy is having on aviation, a Liberal National Country Party Government will immediately halt- 
I emphasise the word 'halt'-  the program until proper studies and comparisons of cost recovery with other forms of transport are made. 
As I said a few moments ago, this Bill provides for the second increase of 15 per cent, or a total increase of a shade less than 30 per cent in a period of 12 months from a government which when in Opposition said that there had to be a halt to increases. The Opposition at that time promised that if it came into office it would carry out an inquiry. 
I want to make a comparison firstly of the results of the increases. There has been an increase in revenue. The amount that is expected to be gathered under the collections for the present year as set out in the Budget will be in the vicinity of $63.1 m. This compares with a collection of $53.547m in 1 975-76.I think that the proportion of the total charges paid by the various airlines is of interest and is worth repeating for the benefit of the House. In 1975-76 the total revenue received from air navigation charges, as I have said, was $53. 5m. Of this amount 16.3 per cent was paid by Ansett Airlines of Australia; 17.6 per cent was paid by Trans-Australian Airlines; International Airlines paid 58.6 per cent; General Aviation, including commuter services, paid 5.5 per cent; and other domestic airlines paid 2 per cent. 
The present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  when in Opposition had much to say about the composition of the cost recovery program and the justification for it. He had much to say about the various propositions that were put forward by him on behalf of the airlines at that time, which included the proposition that the return from the intercapital routes was well in excess of 80 per cent. As I understand the situation, a reasonable comparison is to assume that the total revenue from Ansett and TAA represents what is roughly the return on air navigation charges from intercapital trunk routes. In this case it means that 33.9 per cent or $ 1 8.2m in total revenue in 1975-76 came from intercapital trunk routes. As I have said, the revenue for 1976-77 is expected to be $63. lm, which is an increase of 9.6 per cent. Though the Budget Papers indicate that as being a recovery rate of 6 1 per cent, I notice from the evidence given to Senate Estimates Committee C that that figure has now been increased to 62.3 per cent. This is not a lot but it is considerably above the amount indicated in the Budget Papers. 
It is worth while also to try to make a comparison between what is happening in Australia in the field of cost recovery and what is happening in other countries. I notice that this matter was also raised by the Senate Estimates Committee C when it was dealing with the estimates for the Department of Transport. The question was raised: 'How does the rate of recovery of charges dealing with the current year compare with rates in New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States of America?'. A reply to this question was given in writing in a letter sent to senators at a later date. It was explained in the letter that it is difficult to make a valid comparison between our cost recovery programs and those of our trading partners because of the multiplicity of various service charges that are levied in other countries and the differing range of authorities that collect those charges. I think it is rather unfortunate that we cannot get this information. It would have been of benefit to the Australian scene if we could have had some kind of valid comparison which would be a better basis on which to frame any policy in respect of cost recovery. 
The Senate Estimates Committee C also dealt with meteorological services. Looking at the estimates submitted by the Department in respect of this area and the answers that were given to questions asked, again it is difficult to try to determine what is happening. According to page 373 of the  Hansard  report of Estimates Committee C,  Mr Birch  from the Department of Transport said: 
At present we have a committee within the Department working in conjunction with the airlines review committee, reviewing the requirements of the meteorological services, and I am able to say that a degree of agreement has been reached as to what is necessary. 
I find the next paragraph rather puzzling. He said: 
This will not reduce the services so much as it will improve them, as far as the industry is concerned. In other words, it is an attempt to update a system which has been operating in a certain fashion for a considerable number of years. 
That means one of two things. Either a surplus of services has been available for a long time or there is to be a reduction in services previously thought to be justifiable. If there is a surplus of services the responsibility for that ought to lie fairly and squarely with the present Government which developed the Department of Civil Aviation as a separate Department. 
The present Minister was very strong when in  opposition on the  retention of a separate department of civil aviation. The argument put by the present Minister when in opposition was that because of the special nature of the services provided by the Department of Civil Aviation it ought to have its own administration. One would think that with its own specialised administration it would have been able after some 27 years to determine what meteorological services were necessary, what were efficient and what were worth paying for. It seems from the evidence given on page 373 of the document that the Department has only just come to realise that there could be a surplus of services. Hopefully the Minister may have something later to add on that or maybe some further information could come forward for the benefit of the Parliament on this subject. 
A new system of charges for international airlines is being introduced in this Bill. I am pleased that the Minister communicated with me on an earlier occasion the discussions he had with representatives of the International Air Transport Association. I am not aware of any reaction from IATA or from any international airline disagreeing with the proposals put forward. One must remember that the total amount of revenue will be little changed as a result of the new system of charging. One must also remember that the impact of the new system will fall more heavily on those airlines, such as those from the West, which traverse great lengths within the confines of Australian control. It seems that a balance will be achieved for those airlines by the Pacific nights. They would have a lesser rate to pay on their arrival in Sydney. Certainly I can see the advantage to be gained by those airlines which come in from the seaboard and leave again by the seaboard traversing only little distances across our own space. 
As I said earlier I have no knowledge of any reaction from international airlines. The Minister indicated to me in earlier discussions that he was quite prepared to look at any other proposition that LATA may put forward. I assume at this stage that IATA has not put forward any other proposition. 
The Minister agrees with what I have just said. Another of the alterations brought in by this Bill is the interest charge of 10 per cent which will apply after 45 days from the due date. I think this is a reasonable if not a generous arrangement as far as the levy of interest on overdue accounts is concerned. As I interpret the Bill and the Act the position is that an interest charge of 10 per cent is to be levied on accounts which are overdue after 45 days from due date. The due date does not occur until 28 days after the end of the month in which the landing or take-off was completed. That amounts to 73 days. If the event occurred in the middle of the month another 17 days can be added giving around 90 to 100 days for payment without incurring an interest charge. I think that is a reasonably generous arrangement in comparison with commercial practice. 
I return to the examination of the cost recovery program. In documents associated with the Senate Estimates Committee there is an analysis of revenue gathered from various air services regarding services provided to airline operators. There is no corresponding analysis of expenditure. It is quite clear that one can look at business concessions, parking stations, air navigation charges and airport rentals and determine what amount of money is being gathered by the Department from those activities, but there is no information whatsoever on the breakup of expenditure in providing ground services. It could well be that the cost of providing ground services is the area in which the total cost recovery program is deficient. It could well be that the revenue being gathered for services provided above the ground is in excess of 100 per cent, and the revenue being gathered for services provided on the ground is well below 100 per cent. Unfortunately that information is not available. 
As I mentioned earlier the Minister when in opposition wanted an inquiry into aviation, but said nothing should be done until a comparison had been made with other modes of transport and other costs. Earlier this year the Minister appointed  Sir Lenox  Hewitt to chair a committee. I understand it was called the Aviation Industry Review Committee. I have sought unsuccessfully from the Minister to have the report of that committee tabled in this Parliament so that a proper public, informed and responsible discussion about the recovery program can be conducted. Unfortunately that is not to be the case. I want to remind the Minister of the views he expressed in Opposition just under 2 years ago. In a similar debate on an air navigation Bill- it is recorded at page 3871 of  Hansard  of 71 November 1974- he criticised the then Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  because he believed the Minister was going to reduce staff within the air services group. The present Minister said: 
I believe that the Minister, if he is so mad keen to cut the air services group within the Department of Transport down to size as he seems to be, ought to set up a special committee of the House of Representatives to study the question, instead of going off on an  ad hoc  basis closing down fire services and reducing safety standards in general 
I think the Minister was clearly and responsibly expressing a view that the subject should be looked at responsibly and accurately so that the community can be informed and so that we do not have a government making decisions based on cronyism as appears to occur at present. 
I am offering the information for the Minister's consideration. 
-I thank the honourable member for Newcastle. If the present Minister had the same flexible approach to the problems of the industry and was prepared to set up that committee now I think a great service could be done for the airline operators in this country. We could than have informed discussion and consideration of the subject based on fact rather than on guesswork. Let me go a little further. I have said that any public debate on the present subject under these conditions has to be deficient. In answer to a question I put on notice seeking the tabling of the Aviation Industry Review Committee report he said that it was being considered with the Administrative Review Committee report and that the reports had to be correlated. Unfortunately that has not come to pass. We have not seen either report. 
We also have the scandalous committee being chaired by the  chairman  of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd,  Sir James  McNeill, which is looking into government transport undertakings, again including airlines. One airline involved pays 18.2 per cent of all air navigation revenue. I ask the Minister to consider this matter on the basis that there must be some kind of discussion on the proper government decision for the nation. I do not mind his flying off the handle and calling me fancy names. That is part of the way he operates and it does not worry me at all, but I think for the consideration of Parliament and the Australian community it is time he took a hold of himself and started to bring before the Parliament the kind of information that those committees must be handling. I can see no justification whatsoever for maintaining this iron curtain of secrecy around the activities of those committees and the information with which they must be dealing. 
The Minister has criticised me in the past on any occasion in which I have raised questions relating to air safety. I make it quite clear to the Minister and to the Parliament that I do not regard safety issues as sacrosanct. I know the Minister opposite does not. I do not see that safety aspects of air travel are any different from safety aspects of train travel or motor vehicle travel. It suits the media to publish garish pictures and for television stations to show bloody, gory film of train accidents. In fact, such film always gets the headlines in the news because of its goriness. This does not prevent television stations from televising the results of such accidents or of motor vehicle accidents and this matter ought to be looked at. I want to see it dealt with and I will not be stopped from raising the issue. The Minister himself has raised the issue in the past. I skip the part about the Minister's bare back riding, but page 3872 in the same debate on 2 1 November 1974, the Minister said: 
Safety standards in civil aviation are not a matter for political point scoring; they are a matter of great public interest and should not be tampered with without proper consideration and debate. 
I put it to the Minister that if we are to have that proper consideration and debate he should let us have some facts and figures to deal with, a huie less emotion and some responsible anwers to questions on that subject when they are raised in this Parliament. 
I turn again to the Senate Estimates Committee hearing because in the Civil Aviation Operations Division of the Department of Transport there is to be a reduction of 4 per cent in staff as compared with an overall reduction of 3 per cent in the Department of Transport. The net reduction in average staffing in the Department of Transport for the current year is 346 and 340 of those are to come from the Civil Aviation Operations Division. I have placed questions on notice and, I regret to say, have received from the Department non-answers in most cases. When I have raised those matters for further definition by the Minister he also has declined to answer them. If that is the way debate concerning safety is to be conducted then it will be on a deficient basis. 
I asked the Minister in question on notice No. 1096 why a reduction of 340 staff was to take place in the Civil Aviation Operations Division. I ask the House to remember that this Civil Aviation Operations Division is the division about which the present Minister was so trenchant in his criticisms of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  in 1974 and called for the establishment of a committee of the House of Representatives to bring out in the open why there was to be a reduction in staff in the Civil Aviation Operations Division. Now the Minister has refused to answer a question on notice on the same subject. In his answer to a question on notice the Minister said: 
The estimates have been made taking into account the likely effects of non-replacement of wastage in respect of staff engaged on non-essential tasks. In order to ensure that only essential positions are restaffed throughout 1976-77 each position is being carefully reviewed prior to any decision being taken on filling the vacancy. 
There is nothing in the answer to indicate what is an essential position and what is a non-essential position. If that is the basis on which he is sacking staff I hope that somebody in the Department of Transport knows what is a non-essential and what is an essential position so that it is not being done with a pin. I refer again to Senate Estimates Committee C and to the answers to questions given by  Mr Birch  as recorded on page 369 of  Hansard  where it states: 

 Senator COLSTON Have any reductions been made which will affect the present level of air safety supervision? 

 Mr Birch No. We are being extremely careful to see that this does not occur. We have recently arranged to recruit about 70 air traffic control trainees to ensure we have continuity of staffing in that area. 

 Senator COLSTON Are any positions vacant in the Civil Aviation area due to staff ceilings? 

 Mr Birch At the moment the establishment, so called, is considerably over the staff numbers we have at the present time. There are positions vacant. 
There is nothing in the answer to the question on notice I quoted earlier to indicate that an additional 70 air traffic control trainees were being taken on. It is a fact, and I referred it to the House some weeks ago, that at the end of June two out of three positions in the Civil Aviation Operations Division of the Department of Transport dealing with the issue of airworthiness certificates were not filled during the March to June quarter. Those positions were vacant. 
In my question on notice No. 1 172 I sought information from the Minister related to the casual factors of the 1031 accidents in general aviation which occurred between 1971 and 1975. Quite a number of those- 250 or 16 per cent in fact- related to matters I believe would have been covered by the issue of airworthiness directives. Again the Minister did not see fit to answer my question in a responsible way. I do not mind him calling me names. That is par for the course for the Minister but from the point of view of responsibility and as far as the Parliament and the operators of aircraft are concerned, he has a responsibility to supply that information and to clarify the issue so that we can have proper debate. 
I turn now to the report in the  Australian  of 7 October. It dealt with the increasing fatality rate in general aviation accidents. I am accepting the accuracy of these figures. The article states: 
More Australians are dying in aviation accidents because of the increasing popularity of bigger light aircraft. 
A spokesman for the Department of Transport said yesterday: 'In the old Moths you had only one passenger and in the early Cessnas up to three. But now aircraft carry six to eight. ' 
The eleven fatal air accidents this year have taken 37 lives, with an average 3.36 deaths an incident. In 1974-1975, the 
Department of Transport reported 39 deaths in IS accidents, a 2.7 fatality average. 
There we have a considerable increase in the fatality rate. Putting aside politics and the refusal of the Minister to supply information so that we can have a responsible and accurate debate, they are the facts. They are the lives that are being lost and when one looks at the delay in the Senate of the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Government Liability) Amendment Bill which increases the limit of compensation from $30,000 to a completely inadequate $45,000, one can see that there are a considerable number of Australians who could be disadvantaged as a result of that Bill not being passed and as a result of a deficiency in air safety services which are being provided by the Department of Transport. 
I have quoted for the Minister the figures from his own Department's estimates and have referred him to the  Hansard  report of the Senate Estimates Committee where the matter of air safety was dealt with and questions were asked. I again ask him not to deal with it in his usual flippant manner and certainly not in the flippant manner he exhibited to hang gliders earlier this year. In March I was astounded when the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  asked a question, almost making an appeal for something to be done about hang gliders, and the Minister said: 'It is no different to hanging five; it is the boys having a lark'. Since then several Australian families have suffered tragedy as a result of the Government, which should have been responsible, not being responsible. Air safety is not an area to be glossed over by financial statistics. The information sought should be readily available to the Parliament and I hope the Minister will make that information available. 
-In fairness to the honourable member for Casey, I credited him with raising it. I said that as I recalled he raised that matter in March. I hope I was correct but if I was not I invite him to correct me. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety to ensure that (a) the Australian Capital Territory legislates to ban the sale and fitting of unapproved child restraints and (b) legislation is enacted to require the wearing of restraints by children in the Australian Capital Territory. 
-The Airports (Surface Traffic) Amendment Bill is the first major amendment to the principal Act since its passage in 1960. The almost total lack of information in the scant speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on 21 October when introducing the Bill belies the impact on motorists of the proposed amendments. The paucity of information is further evidence of this Government's growing contempt for the parliamentary process. I note that the Minister is not in the chamber for the passage of this Bill. While we acknowledge the necessity for some procedural amendments which are proposed and which will relate to changed parking control equipment, the Opposition does not accept that the Minister has justified the heavy increase in penalties proposed such as the introduction of multiple infringements for a single offence or the confiscation and disposal of a person's motor car on the simple authorisation of the secretary of the Department. The Opposition is therefore opposed to the Bill. 
The Bill in its present form is heavy handed and ruthless in its attack on motorists. It offers no solution to traffic problems at airports, other than more of the same; that is, heavier penalties which will be, in effect, the means of increasing revenue to this Government. Again the motorist will be slugged hard by the Fraser Government when this Bill becomes law as undoubtedly it will, given the Government's majority in both Houses. -Briefly, the Bill amends the principal Act as follows: Parking fees become recoverable debt to the Commonwealth. Fines for illegal parking and vandalism are increased from $40 to $ 100. Continuous parking, longer than the permitted period, is a separate offence for each period equal to the permitted period. Vehicles parked illegally may be removed and owners, corporate or individual, will be notified by registered letter or newspaper notice. If the owner does not pay the expenses incurred in removal within one month the secretary may sell by public tender or dispose of the vehicle in such a manner as the secretary of the department thinks fit. The proceeds of disposal will go to Consolidated Revenue and the owner may claim the remainder above liability. The Bill removes the right of the owner to action for damages for loss or damage not wilful or negligent. It will be a defence to a parking prosecution if the vehicle was stolen or not in control of the owner. Parking fines in relation to meters are increased from $4 to $10. An authorised person may require the production of a licence. The penalty associated with this matter has been increased from $40 to $100. The penalty for failure to comply with directions from authorised persons is increased from $40 to $100. The attendance of Department of Transport officers shall not be required in undefended prosecutions. 
Having in mind the continual refusal of the Minister to supply information I have repeatedly sought in the Parliament when discussing the estimates for the Department of Transport, the succession of secret inquiries and reports which this Government has commissioned, and a Cabinet decision of 9 October 1976 that legislation should not be introduced to the Parliament when the same objectives can be achieved by regulation, it is worth recalling that the purpose of the principle Act, the Airports (Surface Traffic) Act 1960, was to give legislative form to powers over parking at airports previously exercised under regulation 3 15 (c) of the Air Navigation Regulations, made under the Air Navigation Act 1920-1950. At that time the Minister for Civil Aviation was the late  Senator Paltridge.  He pointed out that the Commonwealth had power under section 52 of the Constitution to make laws with respect to places acquired by the Commonwealth for public purposes such as the estab,lishment and operation of airports. Unlike the present Minister the late  Senator Paltridge  presented in some detail the background to and the necessity for the principal Act. At that time the Opposition did not oppose the legislation. It drew attention to the severity of the penalties proposed for parking offences when compared with penalties levied by State governments for similar offences under State jurisdiction. The then Opposition recognised that the purpose of the legislation was to enable the then Department of Civil Aviation, now the Department of Transport, to control parking and to levy fees and fines for parking offences and vandalism at Commonwealth airports. 
I turn now to the 1 50 per cent increase in penalties provided for in this Bill. Parking fines will be increased from $4 to $10 as provided for under clause 4, while maximum penalties for court heard offences rise generally from $40 to $ 100. The Minister has given no reason for these massive increases, other than to suggest that they will restore the deterrent value of fines and penalties. If $ 100 is a deterrent then surely $40 is a deterrent. Can the Minister advance some sort of justification or differentiation between the deterrent value of a $40 penalty and a $100 penalty? The Parliament has not been told anything about the frequency of offences, the costs involved in policing parking areas at airports or the difficulties which may have developed since 1960 in controlling traffic in the vicinity of airports. All this information is relevant. Unfortunately no information is available on the breakdown of the costs involved in the ground services provided by the department, in association with airport facilities. The latest statistics available to me on parking offences are found in the department's annual reports of 1973-74 and 1974-75. 1 seek leave to nave incorporated in  Hansard  a table setting out the prosecutions, the fines imposed by courts, the number of penalties paid and the penalties paid in lieu of court action. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has he requested his Department to review its advice on the proposal for a reduction of sales tax on vehicle safety components in the interest of obtaining increased vehicle safety at a reduced cost as recommended by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety; if so, what was the result; if not, why not. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for the Northern Territory. Has his attention been drawn to comments by the  chairman  of the National Disasters Organisation and the remarks at pages 1 and 2 of the March-April report of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund of last year which referred to the multiplicity of appeals, the inequitable distribution of funds and the duplication of relief payments? Is he aware that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board under existing legislation has no power to regulate the conduct of radiothons telethons or any appeals of that nature conducted by the electronic media? Will he ensure that any changes to the Broadcasting and Television Act and other appropriate legislation will bring into operation public accountability on the part of those conducting such appeals? Finally, will he support a parliamentary inquiry into the general conduct of radiothons and telethons on a public basis as occurred between the period December 1974 and June 1975? 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What action has been taken to implement the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety in order to- 
ensure that the Northern Territory immediately legislates for retrofitting of seat belts based on the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance draft code of practice; 
initiate a program to notify all pre- 1974 motor vehicle owners, at the time of registration renewal, of the inherent dangers associated with the incorrect wearing and fitting of seat belts;  were circulated: 
investigate the practicality and feasibility of incorporating an outside device on vehicles to indicate whether seat belts are being worn; 
ensure that vehicles are fitted with a 'fasten seat belts' warning light on the dashboard operated in conjunction with the ignition switch; and . (e) investigate the present reasons for granting exemptions from seat belt wearing and encourage Territory authorities to amend their legislation according to the result of the investigation. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety to ensure that (a) the Northern Territory legislates to ban the sale and fitting of unapproved child restraints and ( b ) legislation is enacted to require the wearing of restraints by children in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Federal Government urgently investigate a form of Periodic Motor Vehicle Inspection suitable for the Northern Territory with a view to its early implementation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Government conduct an educational campaign to inform the public, particularly mechanics, of the need for proper attention to the handling of brake fluids. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that a stop lamp indicator requirement be considered by the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design to inform the driver of the correct functioning of brake lamps and that the provision of a brake failure indicator be investigated for its effectiveness and possible standard use. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on 
Road Safety that all Federal and State Government Departments and Authorities ensure that vehicle colour selection is made on the basis of safety. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design be asked to investigate developing a design rule to reduce fire risks, no less stringent than the United States standard. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that data collection and analysis be modified to more accurately relate pedestrian injuries to various vehicle designs and features in order to determine significant variations in protection performance. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Bureau of Road Safety urgently review existing information on Periodic Motor Vehicle Inspection with a view to urging the States not already using Periodic Motor Vehicle Inspection to adopt a suitable form of inspection system to suit their needs. 
-The purpose of the first Bill in this cognate debate, the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill 1976 is to authorise the Treasurer to guarantee on behalf of the Commonwealth loans raised by Qantas Airways Limited to finance the purchase of 3 Boeing 747 series aircraft. The proposed Government guarantee is to be limited to $US117m, which represents 80 per cent of the total cost of the 3 aircraft and associated equipment. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. These aircraft are the 13th, 14th and 15th Boeing 747Bs to be put into service by Qantas. By taking advantage of the present trading terms and by accepting delivery in 1977, Qantas should save about $7.8m on the standard purchase price of each aircraft. Clause 3 of the Bill, by enabling the guarantee to cover promissory notes and securities, will provide Qantas with greater flexibility in borrowing. Clause 5 sets out the conditions of the guarantee given by the Commonwealth which must be met before the Treasurer can give a guarantee. Briefly, the conditions are: ( 1 ) That the moneys are borrowed on terms and conditions that the Treasurer is satisfied are reasonable; (2) that proper security is given to the Commonwealth over the aircraft; (3) that the aircraft, spares and equipment subject of the security will be kept insured to the full insurable value against customary risks; (4) that the aircraft, spares and equipment will not be sold nor made the subject of a mortgage having priority over the Commonwealth's security in respect of the guarantee; and (5) that any special condition may be implemented that the Treasurer may see fit to impose. 
Whilst the 13th and 15th Boeing 747Bs will be of the usual configuration, that is, carrying 1 1.2 tonnes of cargo and 398 passengers, the 14th 747B will be the combined version known as the combi', which is a combined freight and passenger version with a capacity of 28.8 tonnes of cargo and 276 passengers. A large rear door will give access to the main deck, which will be specially stressed and fitted with a power driven roller system to enable containers up to a maximum of 20 feet in length to be loaded. Passenger accommodation will be in the forward section of the aircraft. I note that while this Bill provides that the guarantee on loans to purchase the 3 aircraft is to be limited to US$1 17m, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  when announcing approval for Qantas to purchase the 3 747Bs on 27 July this year said that the cost, including spares and equipment, would be $1 17m. If the Minister meant at that stage that the cost was to be $A1 17m, that amount would then be US$1 44m, taking the average exchange rate. I would like the Minister to clarify that point at a later stage in the debate. Either the guarantee is for US$ 1 1 7m or US$1 44m, or the Minister's earlier statement was incorrect. 
International airlines, as well as our domestic airlines, have been experiencing a most difficult trading period. Increasing costs, allied with little or negative traffic growth, have put airline managements to severe tests in seeking to maintain profitability. Despite an 18.2 per cent increase in revenue in the year to 31 March 1976, Qantas showed a loss on airline operations of $ 14.2m. The  Chairman  of Qantas, in his report for 1975-76, attributed the major share of the loss to illegal international air fare discounting. On page 4 of the annual report of Qantas he said: 
The ample evidence made available this year has clearly demonstrated the widespread malpractice, the violation of governmental agreements in the Australian market place during 1975-76 and the loss to Qantas of passenger revenue estimated to have been as much as $25m with very little offset in operating expenditure. The cost to Qantas of malpractice in overseas markets was certainly no less than that suffered in the Australian market 
So it can be assumed that that too was of the order of $2 5 m. 
Simply stated, that is the overwhelming reason for the lag in revenue growth and the disappointing financial outturn in the past year. 
When announcing amendments to the Air Navigation Regulations on 24 February 1976 to enable the Department to more adequately police illegal international air fare discounting, the Minister ignored the fact that his Government had shilly-shallied for 3 months in amending the Air Navigation Regulations. The amended regulations were almost ready for tabling at the time of the infamous events of 1 1 November last year. On  Sir Lenox  Hewitt's estimates, the Government's 3 months delay cost Qantas to the order of $6m in Australian sales alone. Since it is believed that illegal international air fare discounting cost Qantas about $25m overseas, one would have expected that this Government would have acted to correct the situation. Again, perhaps the Minister will tell us something of what proceedings in that area have been, if he has done anything at all. 
The  Chairman  of Qantas indicated in the annual report tabled in September that Qantas was then paying its way, but a number of issues surrounding the future of Qantas should be clarified by the Government in this debate. Firstly, there have been regular reports of unrest amongst Government back benchers over the fares charged by Qantas. At the Government Caucus meeting on 24 March, Government members were reported as having stated that the International Air Transport Association agreement was 'a vicious price fixing cartel', that Qantas needed stiffer competition and that, compared to Singapore Airlines and Thai International, in-flight service with Qantas was not good. In August 1976, following another Government Caucus discussion on the Qantas fares, the Minister announced that he would soon be putting to the Cabinet a position paper on the protection Qantas received against other International Air Transport Association members, non-IATA carriers and charter operators. Nothing further has been heard of that paper. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was reported as having asked in the Government Caucus room if Qantas 'was not perhaps over protected'. Subsequent to that Government Caucus meeting, it was announced that the Government would initiate 2 inter-related inquiries into the Australian tourist industry which would embrace the activities of Qantas. Clearly, there is a great deal of opposition amongst Government supporters to Qantas membership of the International Air Transport Association and all that it embodies. Secondly, for a long time  Sir Reginald  Ansett has sought a reallocation of the so-called regional air routes from Qantas to the domestic airlines, Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines. On 2 June the Minister replied to a question I had put on notice, and I should like to quote from page 2908 of  Hansard.  I asked the Minister: 
1 ) Has he received offers for the purchase of any Qantas subsidiaries; if so, from whom and for which subsidiaries. 
Has he received requests for the re-allocation of regional air routes presently operated by Qantas; if so, from whom and for which regional air routes. 
3 ) What action has been taken in respect of ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). 
Will he give a categorical assurance that Qantas, its subsidiaries and the air routes it operates are not on offer to interested parties. 
The Minister's answer at best was unclear. His reply reads as follows: 
1 ) An offer has been made to the Minister for Transport by the Antas Consortium for the purchase of all or part of the shares in Qantair Ltd, a subsidiary of Qantas Airways Ltd. 
The Minister for Transport has received the following requests from  Sir Reginald  Ansett, Managing Director, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, relating to re-allocation of services on routes presently operated by Qantas: 
that Brisbane-Port Moresby and Cairns-Port Moresby, be allocated to Ansett and TAA on an equal basis in lieu of Qantas; 
that the domestic service between Sydney-Norfolk Island, to be transferred from Qantas to a domestic airline; 
that progressively other existing regional services, as well as new services, should oe offered to Ansett and/or TAA, again on an equal basis, provided the equipment necessary for the long haul domestic routes (such as Sydney-Perth) is more suitable than the Qantas equipment. Routes mentioned by  Sir Reginald  as suitable for consideration with a view to possible re-allocation include those from Australia to Auckland, Christchurch, Wellington, Fiji, Bali and Norfolk Island. 
(a) Action is being taken in respect to the responses to the offer by Antas and the requests by  Sir Reginald  Ansett. 
b ) In respect of the Sydney-Norfolk Island service, from which Qantas Airways Ltd has sought to withdraw, the views of domestic airlines have been sought and consideration is being given to the future operations of air services on the route. 
The next answer was in respect of my request for a categorical assurance as to the future of Qantas. The Minister said: 
Qantas, its subsidiaries and the air routes it operates are not, subject to 3 (b) above, on offer to interested parties. 
That answer did not give a clear statement as to the Government's future intentions for Qantas or for the regional air routes and their possible transference to TAA and Ansett. Subsequently I wrote to the Minister seeking a clarification of his answer and a more specific response. I will quote in part from the Minister's reply to me of 8 September 1976. The fourth paragraph states: 
However, I have felt that the issues involved were sufficiently important to merit proper study being made in the Department of what would constitute the best possible arrangement in regard to the operation of regional air routes in the longer term and in the national interest. I might add that Qantas as well as the domestic airlines are being fully consulted by the Department of Transport on the whole question and are co-operating fully in the provision of material and comment in relation to it. 
The last paragraph is quite ominous. It states: 
I do not expect an early decision to be made to alter the present position in relation to these regional air routes because the issues are complex: In fact, it may well be - 
I emphasise the words 'it may well be '- that the policy of maintaining Qantas as the exclusive international operator of scheduled services will remain unchanged at least in the forseeable future. 
Both the Minister's reply to the question on notice and his reply to my letter represent a considerable weakening of the Government's policy on the future role of Qantas when those answers are compared with the Minister's statement in this. House of 2 March this year when I had raised the same issue. On that occasion he said: 
There is no challenge to Qantas being our flag carrier, our international carrier. 
The  Chairman  of Qantas thought so much of the fairness of that reply that he included it in the annual report of Qantas. I would like to refer to the last paragraph on page 16 of the annual report of Qantas which states: 
In themselves, the Company's operations amply demonstrate that Qantas merits your statement in the Parliament on 2 March 1976 that: 
There is no challenge to Qantas being our flag carrier, our international carrier'. 
The  chairman  went on to say: 
It would be damaging to the national interest, as well as to Qantas, to invest the domestic trunk operators as second and third international flag carriers of Australia. 
Quite clearly, if Qantas is to have a future, if we are able to plan and if this Bill is to ensure increasing capacity for Qantas the Government should have very clear guidelines on what it proposes to do with our domestic airlines and the regional air routes. The Minister's weakened stand on the future of Qantas is clearly indicated in his reply to my letter and in his reply to the questions on notice. What also needs to be considered is the Liberal Party and National Country Party election policy of last year which states: 
To positively encourage the active participation of private enterprise in all transport undertakings. 
That again indicates that the Government is thinking about and is disposed towards a transfer of publicly owned transport enterprises to privately owned transport enterprises. Further, an inquiry is presently being conducted into government transport undertakings including Qantas, TAA, the Australian National Railways and the Australian National Line, chaired by  Sir James  McNeill of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. I have referred to this committee as a scandalous committee because of the conflict of interest of its members. That committee is also looking at Qantas. Further, the request by the Papua New Guinea Government to purchase the Qantas and TAA shareholding in Air Niugini adds to the doubt that surrounds future plans of Qantas by this Government. Lastly, there is the proven record of  Sir Reginald  Ansett in being able to get what he wants to get from Liberal-Country Party governments. I think when all those facts are taken together - 
The important thing is that he gets it, and that needs to be taken note of. I acknowledge the remarks of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who as a former Minister for Transport ought to know. There are ample grounds and factual grounds for serious public concern as to what the Government has in mind for Qantas and TransAustralia Airlines. I challenge the Minister to make a clear and categorical statement on what the Government's intentions are in respect of Qantas. 
At the same time the Minister might tell us what negotiations have taken place in regard to the proposal by Air Hibiscus of the Bahamas to transport people by cruise ship from Sydney to Fiji from where Air Hibiscus will fly them to London and then return them by the same means to Sydney for a fare of $A980, which I understand is about $200 less than the going fare. It has been reported in this instance, that Ansett is to fly all prospective Melbourne passengers to Sydney. The Fiji Government is also reported in the last few days as having granted Air Hibiscus a charter operator's licence for one year conditional upon the passengers for that service spending 4 days in Fiji. These are serious matters. They relate to any future financial investment in Qantas, in Ansett and in TAA. The Government should put before the community what it proposes to do so that the management of these authorities and companies can themselves also be aware of what is happening. 
When one criticises the International Air Transport Association agreement as numerous Government back benchers have done in their Caucus room - 
The honourable member for Griffith agrees with the comment I have just made. 
I am pleased that he speaks for himself and that he acknowledges that. That gives further evidence of what I was saying earlier in respect of the disagreement among Government back benchers in respect of the role of Qantas in the IATA agreement. 
The honourable member for Griffith says that they are hypocrites. What has to be considered at the same time in that kind of discussion is that some benefits accrue to air travellers arising from this agreement. These are that the passengers are protected against the activities of unlawful operators; that higher safety standards are ensured; that there is a reliability of services; and that intending travellers have a security for any money they may pay to airlines that are operating under that agreement. In the current period of difficult trading for international airlines it is vital to the performance of Qantas as Australia's international airline that the management and the Australian community know exactly what the Government has in mind for international air traffic to and from Australia. 
I want to turn now to the companion Bill in this cognate debate, the Airlines Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill 1976. The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries to finance the purchase of its seventh Boeing 727-200 series aircraft. The proposed guarantee is limited to 80 per cent of the total cost of the aircraft and associated equipment which in this case is US$8m. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. 
It is difficult in a debate of this nature to make a valid comparison between the performance of the 2 major domestic airlines- Ansett and TAA. The annual reports on operations for 1975-76 are not yet available. The annual report for Ansett Transport Industries Ltd for the year ended June 1976 is available but the breakdown into airline operations has not yet come forward. But that report shows that Ansett 's passenger traffic for the year ended June dropped by 2.5 per cent and that air cargo dropped by 4. 1 per cent to 59.5 million tonne kilometres. But there was a 5.4 per cent increase in the second half of the year and revenue of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd from airline operations increased by $32m to $262. 14m. A statement issued by the General Manager of TAA some weeks ago in respect of 1975-76 shows that TAA passenger traffic was down by 1.1 per cent and that its air cargo declined by .4 per cent. TAA showed an increase in air cargo of 3.9 per cent in the last 3 months, which was similar to the performance of Ansett. The financial results in respect of airline operations for each operator are unknown. I refer to another report which shows that both airlines, in the period since March of this year, have reduced their services by 11 per cent to ensure that they have a 67 per cent load factor. 
I am pleased that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  a former Minister for Transport, is in the chamber because I know something of the valiant efforts that he made to try to get Ansett and TAA to come together on rationalisation of services. As I understand it, despite all his efforts they could not achieve any constructive results in the rationalising of services. On many occasions in this chamber I have heard members of both sides of the House ridicule the procedure whereby aircraft from each airline leave airports within a few moments of each other, both less than fully laden. It has been claimed that there ought to be a better utilisation of the aircraft or a better range of services, particularly as to times. As a result- and I suppose this is one of the pluses of the present depression- the airlines have come together and there has been a rationalisation of sevices which, I understand, is continuing. Out of that situation we can expect to see a better utilisation of the public investment, whether it be investment by Ansett shareholders or through the assistance given to TAA originally by government. 
What is hampering the domestic airlines is the economic policy of this Government, the enforced stagnation of the economy which, quite clearly, has a political basis. The Government's economic policy is designed to ensure that there are enough unemployed people outside the gate for acceptance of a reduction in real wages. That is really the exercise. This postponement of economic recovery is having its effect throughout the nation but in this case I refer specifically to its effect on our domestic airlines. The annual report of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, which I mentioned earlier, shows an increase of $6.2m in revenue from television operations. Unfortunately, as I was trying to point out earlier, it is very difficult in this kind of debate to present figures that are properly comparable because there is a lack of information on the range of services provided by Ansett and also on its sources of revenue. Whilst it is possible to obtain from TAA a breakdown of information relating to revenue and expenditure, it is not possible to make that proper comparison with Ansett. The return which Ansett is required to table under the Airlines Agreement lumps together revenue received from Airlines of New South Wales, Airlines of South Australia and MacRobertson Miller Airlines of Western Australia. Ansett 's exclusive operations in Western Australia give it an advantage of the order of $6m plus the oncarriage to eastern States that flows from that operation. 
I am not being critical of the performances of either Ansett or TAA. All I am saying is that when one is attempting to weigh up which airline has performed more efficiently, it is difficult to do so without the right kind of information. Unfortunately, the information that is available does not allow one to make the kind of critical examination which ought to be undertaken in this place. I turn to the difficulties within the 2-airline agreement, which has worked relatively well. Young Liberals saw it as a vicious price fixing cartel in a motion before their council in Victoria a matter of a few weeks ago. I think it is proper to describe one airline- TAA- as being a wholly owned Government airline, or a wholly owned people's airline and the other as a private government airline. Quite clearly, Ansett has a great deal of influence with the conservative parties. It has always had that influence. It would be interesting to see what would happen if a third airline from the private sector came on the scene. I would be very interested to see what the reaction of the present Government would be. 
I want to refer to an event which occurred earlier this year which shows a disparity in actions and responsibilities as between the airlines. I refer to the air  hostesses'  strike which took place early this year. That strike involved both airlines to begin with. A unilateral decision was then taken by Ansett employees to return to work. As I recall the situation, at the time both airlines were having discussions with the union concerned but one airline was also making preparations to go back to work ahead of the other. One can reasonably determine the cost to TAA of that strike to have been to the tune of $lm. The annual report of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd refers to the strike on page 19. It says: 
The disputation did not have a major effect on operations. 
What actually happened was that Ansett employees went back to work before TAA employees. All the TAA passengers who were stranded were transferred to Ansett, resulting in a considerable cash benefit to Ansett. That may be smart business but it is for Ansett and TAA or for the board of directors to work out whether that action was proper. 
If there is to be a 2-airline agreement and if there is to be disputation that requires negotiation between the union concerned and the 2 airlines, surely those negotiations, because of the very narrow nature of the industry, ought to be on a bilateral basis, that is, both TAA and Ansett should continue the negotiations together without one taking advantage of the other. Unfortunately for publicly owned transport enterprises or any publicly owned operation, they are required to stick to the letter of the law. I can imagine what the outcry would have been if TAA had suddenly called off the strike and gone back to work a day ahead of Ansett. But in the light of the time, nothing was said by the present Government. If we are to have fair competition and an extension of competition let us make the ground rules the same. That is putting a case not for TAA but for fair play and better operation of the 2-airline agreement. 
The operations of Ansett and TAA will be severely affected by the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission report. There has been a great deal of discussion in this chamber concerning this matter over the 3 te years I have been here, particularly from the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  about the impact of air navigation charges on domestic airlines. It has been the real bogy of all airlines, according to the Minister. I do not refer to the fact that he has raised air navigation charges by 30 per cent in less than 12 months but I want to emphasise that the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has, for some years, promoted the proposition that fuel prices and oil prices should be increased. In the 1974 election campaign he said that they should be increased by 40 per cent. The implications of an increase in oil prices are much greater for the airlines than the implications of any increase in air navigation charges. I have obtained figures from the 1974-75 annual reports of Ansett and TAA and the 1975-76 annual report of Qantas. These figures show, in the case of Qantas, that expenditure on fuel and oil was $69.8m or 14.4 per cent of total expenditure. In the case of TAA, an amount of $28. 7m was spent on fuel and oil which represents 1 5.4 per cent of total expenditure. In the case of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd I refer again to the lack of information. The figures for Ansett show that the item for fuel and oil also includes services rendered and purchased, and accommodation expenses. I cannot break that down, but that item shows an expenditure of $36.3m or 24.2 per cent of total expenditure on airline operations. Let us assume that Ansett 's net expenditure on fuel and oil is somewhere between the 15.4 per cent of TAA and the 24.2 per cent that I have quoted. The actual figure does not matter. What is important is that fuel and oil expenditure of the airlines is about one-sixth of total expenditure. If, as the IAC's report recommends, the price of local crude is to increase in the terms set out in the report- from 27 per cent of import parity in June 1977 to 49 per cent by 1980- the impact on the airlines will be horrendous. It is small fry to be talking about air navigation charges and airport rentals when the present Government is sponsoring this report from the IAC. Page 2 1 of the report states:  . . transport and storage (for which petroleum products represented 2.7 per cent of demand for materials and services- 
I stress '2.7 per cent of demand for materials and services'. Further on the report states: 
In the transport and storage category, which includes consumption of motor spirit by all users, light fuels acount for about 86 per cent. 
Earlier the report stated: 
An increase in the price of indigenous oil is likely to fall harder on users of light products (e.g. petrol, aviation turbine and distillate) . . . 
I mention that in conclusion because the Leader of the National Country Party and the Minister for Transport have both supported the policy of heavy increases in oil prices m this country. 
They have. That is their policy. I put to the Parliament that the Government ought very clearly to be thinking about the implications for our domestic airlines. With the present situation even an increase of $1 in an air fare is resisted by consumers. The air fare increase that will be involved if the IAC's report is adopted, as I understand it will be by this Government, will be massive. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
1 ) Did he state in answer to question No. 789 that I was already aware from the response to an identical telegram sent to the Secretary of the Department that no telexes, files, papers or documents relevant to question No. 3381 were or are held in the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Did the Secretary of his Department advise me that my telegram of 7 December 1975 was delivered by Telex to the Department's Communications Centre during the evening of that date, but that it did not reach the Secretary, that efforts to discover what may have happened to it have been unsuccessful, and that he was sorry his earlier advice was incorrect. 
If so, will he make further efforts to ascertain what happened to the telegram, how the Department learnt of its contents, and advise me of the result. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
With reference to his reply to question No. 791 in which he stated that the information on which his reply to question No. 36 was based did not come from Foreign Affairs records, from what source did the information come. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Bureau of Road Safety investigate the appropriate labelling of retreaded tyres (including tread depth indicators) and maximum recommended vehicle speeds when fitted with retreaded tyres. 
What have been the results of the action taken. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has he requested the Australian Transport Advisory Council to endeavour to ensure that safety related Draft Regulations it approves are enacted in each State and Territory. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Bureau of Road Safety institute procedures for the thorough testing of vehicles to ensure satisfactory compliance with Australian Design Rules. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design make a formal approach to individual vehicle companies requesting detailed cost information and other relevant information whether necessary for the purposes of design rule formulation and that manufacturers should also be requested to provide assistance in evaluating the effectiveness of safety features in vehicles. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did he state in answer to my question No. 1191  (Hansard,  14 October 1976, page 1932) that details of the extension of the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme to southbound cargoes was presently being processed by his Department. 
If so, is he now able to say when an announcement will be made concerning the extension of the Scheme. 
-The function of this Bill- the Roads Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976- is to amend the National Roads Act 1974 and the Roads Grants Act 1974 by allocating to the States an additional amount of financial assistance totalling $35. 8m for the current financial year. The Government's decision to grant this supplementary assistance, which partly offsets cost increases in the current year, was first announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his mini-Budget on 20 May. In line with the low priority accorded transport expenditure by this corrupt conservative Government the amount of $35. 8m to be appropriated is less than one-quarter of the cost escalation adjustment of $ 157m recommended by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads for 1976-77. 
Despite the pleadings of State Ministers for Transport at the forty-sixth Australian Transport Advisory Conference held earlier this year for a substantial cost escalation grant to offset the ravages of high inflation and record unemployment fostered by this Government, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has acted as an apologist for his Cabinet colleagues by supporting the provision of only $35. 8m for cost increases in road construction and maintenance. It is a pity for the transport scene in Australia that the Minister does not apply some of that same vigour and inflammatory approach that he displays in his union bashing exercises instead to his Cabinet colleagues to ensure that transport in the States gets a fair share of national revenue. 
Although the Opposition does not oppose the Bill, I will at a later stage in the debate be moving an amendment to the Bill in its present form. As has become usual with previous transport matters, the Minister has sought to misrepresent the true position in relation to funds being provided by this Government for roads. In his statement issued on 20 May 1976 following the Treasurer's mini-budget of the same date, the Minister, by referring to cash outlays, sought to give the impression that including the $35.8m in this Bill, a total of $453. 5m would be available for road construction and maintenance this financial year. He compared this figure with an amount of $413.5m for 1975-76 and sought to show that $453.5m was an increase of $40m for this year. It was another paltry exercise in figure juggling as he neglected to point out that this corrupt Government had asked the States to defer claims on road funds of $20m for 1975-76 until 1 July so that the cash payments of $20m would show as a cash outlay in 1976-77. The facts are that $433.5m was appropriated for 1975-76 and the same amount will be appropriated for this year, as is correctly shown in the Budget Papers. 
In real terms- that is after allowing for inflationthe available funds for roads this year have been reduced by 12 per cent, or one-eighth. The apportionment of the $35.8m provided for in the Bill is as follows: Additional grants in respect of, firstly, maintenance of national highways in Queensland, $2m-and that is the only provision for national highways; secondly, construction of rural arterial roads and developmental roads shared amongst the 6 States, $13.83m; thirdly, construction and maintenance of rural local roads shared among the 6 States, $ 16.37m; and fourthly, construction of urban arterial roads which is shared by Queensland $1.6m, South Australia $lm and Western Australia $lm, giving a total of $35.8m. 
I draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Bureau of Roads had recommended that $ 157m be made available to the States this year by way of financial assistance to offset cost increases. The provision of $35. 8m in this Bill is 23 per cent of the amount that the Bureau recommended. Under the circumstances, this is a quite inadequate provision. It is pointless for the Minister to claim that State Ministers for Transport were consulted on this matter. They were told by the Minister that they would get what they would get and that was that. That was the extent of the consultation. At the Australian Transport Advisory Conference meeting last March the transport Ministers strongly emphasised the difficulties they were facing and called for the linking of road grants to the consumer price index. But that request was to no avail. 
Increases in road costs are in the main beyond the control of the States. Increases in the price of bituminous products flow from international market prices. But this Government has chosen to ignore the plight it is creating for road construction authorities by providing only 23 per cent of the cost escalation grant recommended by the Bureau of Roads. The Government's action is in keeping with its past record on transport funding. We only have to look at the Hume Highway to see the result of 23 years of Liberal Party and National Country Party neglect of road planning and road funding. The 1 975 Bureau of Roads report stated: 
That the national roads program should have the highest rate of growth of any of the road programs as this area of expenditure has been relatively neglected in the past and there is a large  backiog  of work to be overcome. 
I recall that in an earlier debate of this nature this year the Minister made the point that the amount being provided for national highways was much greater on a percentage basis than was being provided for other categories. On that occasion I think the House decided to delete from the program that had been approved by the previous Minister for Transport a sum in excess of $6m. That amount of money has been diverted from the national highways program to other programs. 
The Whitlam Government did much to remedy the problems created by the neglect of previous conservative governments. No government in a mere 3 years could have solved all the problems in our road system which were brought about by 23 years of maladministration by previous Liberal-Country Party governments. Let us look in more detail at the recommendations of the Bureau of Roads in respect of New South Wales. The Bureau recommended an inflation adjustment for New South Wales in the current year of $56.4m. New South Wales desperately needed and expected at least $32m. Under this Bill it will receive $ 11.3m or 20 per cent of the Bureau's recommendation. That 20 per cent is even less than the Bill's total provisions expressed as a proportion of the Bureau's total recommendation. I ask the House to contrast the miserableness of the Government's proposal with the very reasonable inflation adjustments made under the Whitlam Government. In February 1975, an additional $30m was made available at the request of the Premiers for the year 1974-75. The Hayden Budget of last year provided $64m for 1975-76. This was legislated for last April. 
Road construction and maintenance is a major employer of labour both in country and urban areas. Road funds are an important item in most council- rural and urban- budgets. The Government has created a financial problem for local government in Australia by providing only $35. 8m in this Bill. The Minister is tinkering with the problem by intimidating State Transport Ministers into giving a larger share to rural councils. Reference to  Hansard  will show his attempts to stand over the Victorian and New South Wales Transport Ministers earlier this year. 
-The Minister says he was successful in standing over the State munsters. That is in keeping with his nature. I take the opportunity of welcoming the Minister into the chamber. This is the first Bill, in a succession of, I think, four, for which the Minister has seen fit to pay the Parliament the courtesy of attending. But for the Budget Estimates it is some considerable time since the Minister has deemed the Parliament important enough to participate in a second reading debate. He or his Government still do not deem Parliament important enoughhonourable members have heard me raise this matter a number of times- to supply adequate information in relation to legislation brought before this chamber. That, after all, is part of the new government by regulation rather than by legislation as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced a fortnight ago and which was decided on by Cabinet on 9 October. I sincerely welcome the Minister. I hope, for the Parliament's sake, that he will take the debate seriously. I do not mind his personal slanging; that is part of his style and the way he operates. I ask him to respect the forms of the Parliament and the rights of the Australian people to know what this Government is doing and why it is doing it. We are entitled to factual and specific information to support the legislation which the Government wants to go through the chamber. 
I return to the matter of local councils and the proportion of road funding as part of their budget. The Opposition recognises the importance of road funding to rural councils, but robbing Peter to pay Paul is not a solution. Bleeding off road funds from urban councils to rural councils will create more unemployment and more difficulties in urban areas. The answer to the problem is to give adeqaute funds to the States to enable the road programs to go ahead and for the maintenance programs to be carried out. We have a conservative Government in office with a National Country Party Minister in charge of the roads pork barrel. The Country Party is renowned for its past record of buying votes with road funds without regard to the human consequences and tragedies that flow because our road systems are inadequate. The report of the Bureau of Roads in this respect said that 93 per cent of the length of the Hume Highway was below design standards for a national highway. That is as the result of 23 years of conservative government. Even the Whitlam Government could not have allowed it to deteriorate to that extent in 3 years. 
These problems and the ones within our roads system are of long standing and are the result of a lack of planning in the past and a lack of proper priorities by conservative governments. If this Government was really concerned about local government it would not have reduced total federal assistance to local government this year by 30 per cent. In the Budget it reduced the total federal assistance to local government in its various forms from $272.5m as provided in the Hayden Budget to $ 195m- a reduction of 30 per cent. But there is a deeper reason for the small amount provided by this Bill, and that is the Government's economic policy of enforced stagnation of the economy, expanded long term unemployment and a reduction in real wages. We should be looking for the reasons behind this Bill. We should not be looking at the amount of work that needs to be done and not at the kilometres of roads that need to be maintained, upgraded or built, but at the policy of the Government in ensuring that there is a record level of unemployment and that there is a reduction in real wages. 
Unfortunately the safety standards of our roads will remain deficient. More people will lose their lives and be injured because of a political decision of this Government. What the Government wants to achieve with its political objectives is a return to Depression days with more people outside the gate. One recalls the incidents at Rothbury in the Hunter Valley and the circumstances that existed in the 1930s. I again bring to the Minister's attention that when he has a scale of priorities such as this it does not matter how he and his colleagues want to hound young unemployed people; the conservative Parties in this country ultimately will reap the social whirlwind from the crop they are sowing. It does not matter how much they hound young unemployed people and how much the Prime Minister says that life is not meant to be easy. I do not believe that most people expect life to be easy, but certainly most people expect to have an opportunity in life to achieve their desires or ambitions. In this Bill the provision of finance is an important way in which the Government could have given a stimulus to the economy, could have created expanded job opportunities and could have created an upturn in the economy. The funds provided in the Bill are wholly inadequate to offset cost increases being incurred by the States in their road programs this financial year. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the second reading of the Bill the House is of the opinion that the Bill fails to provide adequate financial assistance to the States for cost escalation in the current year'. 
I turn now to the importance of road programs in the national transport scene and to future funding of road programs. Transport in all its aspects -sea, rail, road and air- is a major component of our economy. Some 10 per cent of gross national expenditure relates to transport; 6 per cent of the workforce is employed in the transport industry in one form or another- that is more than 350 000 Australians. It is important in a federation such as ours with vast areas and with population spread mainly on the seaboard with a sparse scattering through the interior that transport have a very strong voice in the economic management of the country. 
Transport decisions have very important effects on other industries and on other aspects of our economy. Transport planning and transport expenditure ought to have a major priority in any federation. The major problem looming for the future in respect of transport and particularly in respect of roads is the intentions of this Government towards road funding. Earlier this year the Minister at an ATAC conference of Transport Ministers talked about future means of funding road programs in Australia. Unfortunately no more has been said of what is to happen. At the present time the State governments are bewildered as to what are this Government's intentions for the financial year beginning 1977-78. The current triennium for road funding concludes on 30 June next year. There is a very long lead-in time involved in road construction. Decisions have to be made upon where roads ought to go. There are decisions to make on what roads ought to be upgraded or improved. Firstly, that has to be done at local level, then at State government and Federal Government levels where necessary. Then there has to be the budgeting of funds and an application and approval of funds. In many cases, this will be followed by the calling of tenders for work or for the supply of materials. All of those things mean that there is a very long lead-in time involved in road construction. 
It is vital if we are to have continuity of employment in the workforce associated with roads and road maintenance that the States know the position as soon as possible. The triennium concludes on 30 June next year. The States should have been informed up to 12 months ago of what the Government's intentions were for the next period- that is the period after 1 July next year. We have heard a great deal about so-called federalism which I choose to define as coercive federalism because it means in effect - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I will explain to the honourable member for Sturt what the policy of his Government represents. It is coercive federalism. If he has any doubts about this, I suggest that he talk to some of the State Transport Ministers and learn. The honourable member heard his own Minister speaking at the table here a few minutes ago. He told us how he successfully stood over the State Transport Ministers. I cannot give the honourable member any better proof than that in reply to his interjection. That is the definition and operation of coercive federalism. What I fear is that the Government has in mind a certain course of action. I do not believe that the Minister would give any indication of it. It would be unlike his character to make an explanation during this debate. What I and some of the State Transport Ministers fear the Government proposes to do after 1 July next year is to make bloc grants to State treasuries and then leave it to the State governments to apportion what money they will spend on education, health and transport. I think possibly that is alien to the Minister's nature. I know that such a proposition is opposed by his own department. But it is the kind of policy that has been promoted by the present Government, particu.larly by the Prime Minister. 
It is defined as federalism. I call it coercive federalism. In effect, it is an answer to a federal politician 's dream. It means relieving the Federal Parliament and the Federal Government of the responsibility to make difficult decisions, to decide difficult priorities. If this is to be the case, the States ought to be told now. If there is to be a new triennium and a continuation of amended existing arrangements, the States ought to be told that now. But all the signs I see and all the interpretations I can make of statements by the Prime Minister lead me to the opinion that what the Government has in mind is to make bloc grants on an annual basis from 1 July next year. A special meeting of State transport Ministers with our Federal Minister for Transport has been called for 3 December. Such is the state of consultation that this special meeting has had to be called to enable State Ministers to try to ascertain from this Government what it proposes to do in 7 months time. I do not know whether we will obtain any result from that, but surely this is the place and the time, late as it is, for the Government to be laying down what it proposes to do in financing road construction in the future. 
Let us move a little away from that subject to deal with the apparatus behind road funding and road programming. I want to refer specifically to the future of the Bureau of Roads. As announced earlier this year, the Bureau of Roads is to be amalgamated with the Bureau of Transport Economics. The Bureau of Roads Act 1964 is to be repealed and the Bureau amalgamated back into the department. Already from all around Australia objection is coming from local councils and motorists' associations to this move by the Government. It is a further move to secrecy, to close off the access of the community, including councils, members of the general public and motorists' organisations. This point was put very strongly by the motorists' organisations from all the States to the Bland Administrative Review Committee. This was another secret inquiry whose report is so good it cannot be tabled in the Parliament. We do not know about the recommendations of that Committee. 
The Government does not place a high priority upon roads and a high priority upon community input. Its attitudes towards transport must be such that the members of the community  -Mr and Mrs John  Citizen who use our roads, trains, buses and aeroplanes- have an increasing opportunity to say something about the decisions that are being made in respect to the services they pay to use. The Bureau of Roads since 1964 has performed an excellent job in laying down financial policy or making recommendations upon financial policy for road programs to Federal governments. The Bureau has won wide acceptance from all levels of government and, most of all, from the community. To disband or abolish the Bureau and to make it part of the department, as the Minister proposes, is a retrograde step for road users, for all motorists and for local government authorities. I urge the Minister to reconsider that decision and to leave the Bureau of Roads in its amalgamated form as an independent statutory authority. There is an alternative. The Bureau of Transport Economics could be amalgamated with the Bureau of Roads into an expanded independent authority. The Opposition believes that this is the proper course to follow. 
A further matter to which I wish to refer relates to road funding and the difficulty that will be created from a national economic management point of view because the Government has indicated its future course on road funding is that of integrated transport management. The Liberal and National Country parties stated in their policy speeches that they believed in integration of transport modes by rail, road, sea and air. But it is pointless to have a policy like that if your Prime Minister is promoting a view to the effect that the States should be left more and more to themselves. Urban roads were among the matters referred to by the Prime Minister at the Premiers Conference last February. They were cited as among those activities that would best be left to local government. If the policy to be followed by this Government means that funds are to be handed back to the States and the States left to decide priorities, we will have all sorts of cat fights within State governments as well. We will see not only an abandonment of a planned move towards proper and efficient co-ordination of public expenditure upon various modes of transport. We will also see develop then cat fights within State treasuries. State Transport departments will be trying to obtain priority within their State treasuries. 
Let me make the position very clear to the Government. So far as the New South Wales Government is concerned, it would prefer to see a situation in which there is a continuation of specific purpose grants. It would prefer to see a continuation of legislation similar to that brought in under the Whitlam Labor Government- the National Roads Act, the Road Grants Act and the various categories of roads or programs. They may not be in such a specific form but that State favours a continuation of funds made available under section 96 of the Constitution specifically for road purposes. Irrespective of the fact that I understand the representatives of the committee in Victoria are meeting in relation to transport- I think that the Queensland committee also has been instructed by its government to press for the bloc grants I spoke about earlier- I want it made quite clear that there are States which prefer and strongly desire that the section 96 system of specific purpose grants for transport be continued. 
The integration that I mentioned earlier of transport expenditure is a vital issue so far as our Federation is concerned. It is pointless just to refer to transport as being important, to complain about transport and blame the unions for the problems in regard to it. The major problems of transport are problems that developed between 1949 and 1972 because of a lack of coordinated planning. A return to a stop-go kind of approach to transport funding will be a return to the same situation. There will be more of the same lack of policy we had until 1972 which brought about duplication and triplication in modes of transport and complete severance of transport faculties in some areas. The responsibility is now with the Government not to play politics with transport, not to use road funding as a means of increasing the number of unemployed, and not to give State governments 23 per cent of their proper entitlement for cost escalation grants in the current financial year. It is up to the Government to see that transport gets proper priority and that is the Minister's responsibility. I do not think he was here when I commented earlier, but I will repeat it for his benefit, that to make sure that transport does get the kind of money that is needed I wish he would use on his Cabinet colleagues some of that vigour and inflammatory approach which he uses on unions. I have expressed the Opposition's attitude earlier and it is outlined in the terms of the amendment. I commend the amendment to the House. 
-This Bill, as the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said, passed through this place on 2 June. Whilst the Opposition is not opposing the amendments I would like to make a few comments on behalf of the Opposition. The Minister will recall that on the evening that this Bill was debated he had to leave the chamber. I asked him at that time whether the Government would give consideration to the points put by the Opposition. I have heard nothing from the Minister since on that. The Opposition in another place moved an amendment to this Bill to raise the limit of liability from $45,000, as provided in the Bill, to $67,000 and to provide for a biennial adjustment which would be related to average weekly earnings using 1970 as a base. There were very good grounds for moving that amendment. In 1970 when the Act was last amended and the limit was increased from $15,000 to $30,000 the then Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  said in the other place: 
As the nominal average weekly earnings of adult males in Australia have approximately doubled since 1955, when the basis for the existing limit was established, the Government proposes that the same change be made in this limit of liability, that is to say an increase from $15,000 to $30,000. This will cost the airlines some $250,000 per annum in additional insurance premiums. 
In the previous debate and in the other place the point was made that $45,000 in today's terms would not buy even a comfortable house in Canberra. To limit the liability in regard to relatives and other people who are injured in aircraft accidents to $45,000 is wholly inadequate. In many cases people would be condemned to tragedy and hardship for the rest of their lives particularly the children of families if the breadwinners were involved. 
The cost of the increase is something which we sought during the debate. Again, we have heard nothing from the Minister or the Department of Transport on the cost. By our own calculations, which I have checked, the cost of additional insurance to the airline companies to raise the limit of liability from $45,000 to $67,000 would be 5.7c per passenger flight- about half the price of a packet of Juicy Fruit. Surely that is a financial burden that the airlines, considering that Ansett Airlines of Australia showed a profit of $14m just recently, can bear. The impact of serious injury or loss of life in an aircraft accident is severe. I repeat: $45,000 is wholly inadequate. I again ask the Minister and the Parliament to give further consideration to this matter. We do not want to delay the passage of the legislation because an accident could occur at any time before the legislation receives royal assent. For that reason I again ask the Minister to consider the points we have put. We say quite strongly that the limit on compensation should be related to the average weekly earnings of the year 1955 as put forward by the then Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  in 1970. The other point I wanted to make - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Before  the honourable gentleman goes any further I am having a little trouble establishing the relevance of his speech to the clauses that have been amended. I invite him to speak to the clauses that are before the Chair. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I appreciate your guidance and your inquiry, but I was referring specifically to the first part of the Minister's explanatory statement on these amendments .which refers to an increase in the amount of compensation from $30,000 to $45,000. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I do not know whether it is relevant to do so. The matter before the Committee is the amendments sent from the Senate. As I understand it, the Committee should be dealing with the 2 clauses that have been amended. 
-I submit, with the greatest respect, that if it is relevant for the Minister to introduce these amendments and refer to the increase in compensation surely in any reasonable interpretation I ought to be able to respond. 
The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN-I did not know to which speech of the Minister the honourable member was referring. 
-Passing on from that point, I want to emphasise, on behalf of the Opposition, that it is a disgrace that these amendments are before the Committee tonight. This Bill went through the House on 2 June. The Senate sat on the evening of 2 June and on 3 June and 4 June. At the time the Opposition understood that the Minister thought it important that this legislation pass through the House before 1 July which was the operative date. What has happened since is what we indicated might happen. There have been aircraft accidents and people have been injured. I do not want to reflect on their personal positions. Surely the people and the families who would have benefited if this legislation had gone through, as I know the Minister wanted it to go through at the time, should not be disadvantaged by the fact that the legislation did not go through the Senate prior to 1 July. On the Opposition's behalf I ask the Minister to do what he can to see that people who have been affected by the late passage of this legislation are in some way compensated or assisted so that they are not disadvantaged as a result of the Senate's delay in not dealing with the legislation. I conclude on the point that if there is to be a continuation of arrogance on the part of this Government surely the people of Australia will take note of the fact. 
-The effect of this amendment is to change the operative date from 1 July 1976, as inserted in the original Bill, on 2 June, to a date which would be from the commencement of this Act. The remarks I made in respect to the earlier Bill- the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Amendment Bill- are also pertinent to this amendment. I do not wish to delay the Committee with the passage of the Bill. The Opposition does not oppose the amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What facilities were made available by Telecom Australia or Australia Post to ATN Channel 7, Sydney, associated with the conduct of a recent telethon for the Children 's Medical Research Foundation. 
How many telephone sets were installed. 
What were the installation fees payable. 
What charges will be made. 
5 ) When were the connections or installations provided. 
When will they be disconnected. 
What deductions were made by ATN7 from its appeal collections. 
8 ) What was the amount promised by contributors. 
What was the amount collected. 
10) What auditing procedures are followed in respect of funds promised and collected. 
Who carries out the audit. 
Will a public report be made available promptly of proceeds of money handled by ATN7. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the statement appearing on page 59 of the Bureau of Transport Economies' report on the provision of general cargo facilities at Port Darwin, that it seems certain that uranium deposits known to exist in the Alligator River region of the Northern Territory, about 300 kilometres east of Darwin, will be developed in the foreseeable future and that initially, at least, raw materials for processing this ore will have to be imported through Darwin, what is the basis for this statement. 

 ) Did the statement express the attitude of the Government at the time the report was prepared. 
Has he had discussions with the Minister for the Northern Territory on the implementation of the report's recommendations; if so, what was the result. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he, in consultation with his State counterparts, investigate implementing a system of variable rating of third party insurance according to vehicle size and accident record and other matters which encourage occupant safety, as well as a system of funding third party insurance by a fuel tax either in whole or in pan as recommended by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did Connair receive an additional subsidy in respect of the years 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
If so: 
what was the amount of the increases, 
what was the basis of compilation of the increases, and 
when were the increases approved by the Government. 
What subsidy has been provided for Connair in the 1976-77 Budget, and what was the basis of compilation of this amount. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has an increase in loan funds been made available to Connair. 
If so, 
what is the amount of the additional loan funds 
what was the reason for the increase 
what are the terms of the additional loan. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) In view of the large amount of public funds paid to Connair since 1961, will he initiate an inquiry into the operation and finances of the company. 
If so, will he ensure in the meantime that the employment of the company's employees will be protected, and that air services will continue to be provided tor residents of the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is South Australia and Territorial Air Services a licensed charter operator. 
Is the company permitted by his Department to operate a regular public transport service in South Australia and Northern Territory in competition with licensed regular public transport operators in contravention of Air Navigation Regulations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he or his Department received complaints from pilots employed by the South Australian and Territorial Air Services, or from pilots formerly employed by that Company, that they have been required to fly aircraft in excess of conditions laid down in Air Navigation Orders. 
If so, do these complaints relate to the exceeding of flight time and duty time limitations, as reported to Departmental officers by pilots whose services have been terminated by that Company for their refusal to breach the Air Navigation Orders and Air Navigation Regulations. 
What action have he and his Department taken in respect of the complaints received. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he expedite the interdepartmental inquiry into the future of air services in the Northern Territory. 
) When is it expected the inquiry will by completed. 
3 ) Will he table the report of the inquiry; if not, why not. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. He will recall his recent statements to the effect that export freight charges were a major factor in maintaining access to international markets for Australian products. Will he advise the House in as precise terms as he can of the effect the massive devaluation of the Australian dollar will have on liner conference sea freight rates from Australia to our major markets overseas? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he state in answer to Question No. 1077 that the figures quoted by his predecessor in March 1962 regarding the costs of the Lockheed Electra LI 88 aircraft purchased by TAA also included the costs of aircraft spares and ground equipment whereas the figures supplied by him on 1 7 March 1976 did not include these costs. 
If so, what were the costs of the (a) spares and, (b) ground equipment for the Electra aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What length of service between overhauls was planned for engines fitted to the Qantas Boeing 747 aircraft when the decision was made for their purchase. 
) Has that period been altered; if so why. 
3 ) What is the length of flying time involved in a cycle for a 747 engine. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is the performance of the Pratt and Whitney engines fitted to the Qantas Boeing 747 aircraft causing some concern to Qantas. 
Is there any plan in hand to replace them with Rolls Royce engines. 
If so, what would be the cost of the changeover for the whole Qantas fleet 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) To which letter bomb incident did the reward paid in 1975 relate, as mentioned on page 13 of the 1976 Annual Report ofthe Australian Postal Commission. 
Was a prosecution launched as a result of the information supplied. 
3 ) If so, what was the outcome of the prosecution. 
-Whilst I do not oppose the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  I want to register my protest, as one who has been a member of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. When the report of that Committee was brought down and the Government, by sheer weight of numbers, forced through this House a motion to establish the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure earlier this year, an undertaking was given that there would be a full parliamentary debate in this session on the report of the Committee. Although the session is to conclude next week no opportunity has been given for that report to be duscussed. The Expenditure Committee, from what I understand of its performance, is not working in any effective fashion whatsoever. What has really happened is that the considerable amount of time and effort that was put into the preparation of the report on the committee system by members of the Committee on both sides of the House has been disregarded. 
Instead, we have again a situation this week where a select committee was established, in direct conflict with the recommendatons of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. Much can be gained for the Parliament along the lines that the honourable member for Wills indicated earlier in his comment in the management of the business of the House and in a proper examination of legislative measures introduced into this chamber. The system which is in use now is a system that provides simply for getting Bills through without proper parliamentary examination and consideration. I register my protest and insist that in the new session after Christmas there is an opportunity to discuss the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety in order to (a) ensure that the Australian Capital Territory immediately legislates for retrofitting of seat belts based on the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance draft code of practice, (b) initiate a program to notify all pre- 1974 motor vehicles owners, at the time of registration renewal, of the inherent dangers associated with the incorrect wearing and fitting of seat belts, (c) investigate the practicality and feasibility of incorporating an outside device on vehicles to indicate whether seat belts are being worn, (d) ensure that vehicles are fitted with a 'fasten seat belts' warning light on the dashboard operated in conjunction with the ignition switch and (e) investigate the present reasons for granting exemptions from seat belt wearing and encourage Territory authorities to amend their legislation according to the result of the investigation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has he consulted with the Treasurer with a view to implementing the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Insurance Commission be asked to obtain relevant information from insurance companies in order to assist in the collation of statistics on road traffic accidents. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What projects funded under the  Transport (Planning and Research) Act  1974 have now been completed. 
When does he anticipate the publication of the reports of these projects. 
What was (a) the total cost of each project (b) the Federal Government's share of the cost of each project and (c) the respective State Government's share of the cost of each project. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the purpose of his visit to New Zealand from 28 April to 3 May 1 976. 
What are the names, classifications and salaries of each member of the party who accompanied him. 
) What are the names of the places visited. 
What official consultations were undertaken. 
What was the cost for each member of the parry for; (a) travel both between Australia and New Zealand and within New Zealand; (b) accommodation, and (c) other incidentals, 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
What is the function of the National Association of Australian and State Road Authorities. 
2 ) How are its activities funded. 
What funds have been made available to the Association in each of the last five financial years. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
Is the Australian Government represented on the National Association of Australian and State Road Authorities. 
If so, what are the names, classifications and employing agencies of the representatives. 
) Do they attend ali meetings of the Association. 
What role do they fulfil at the meetings. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) On how many occasions have Qantas Boeing 747 aircraft suffered engine failure since their purchase. 
What were the dates of those failures, and what were the causes. 
How many cycles had the engines operated since new and since overhaul in each case. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he state in answer to my question No. 1019  (Hansard, 5  October 1976, page 1530) that the gifts presented to the launching ladies who officiated at the recent launchings of two Australian ships in Sweden were being valued in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
) If so, has the valuation of the gifts been completed. 
If so, what is the valuation of the (a) Gotaverken gift and (b) Blohm and Voss gift. 
What is the present location of (a) the Gotaverken brooch and (b) the Blohm and Voss bracelet. 
What action has been taken to implement the Prime Minister's election promise that gifts in excess of $ 100 must be paid for by the recipient. 
Was each launching lady, i.e.  Mrs Nixon  and  Mrs Anthony,  asked to nominate the nature of the gift each received. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did he state in answer to question No. 1096 that the estimates in respect of staffing in the Civil Aviation Operations Division of his Department have been made taking into account the likely effects of the non-replacement of wastage in respect of staff engaged on non-essential tasks and, in order to ensure that only essential positions are restaffed throughout 1976-77, that each position will be carefully reviewed prior to any decisions being taken on filling the vacancy. 
If so, what is the definition of 'non-essential tasks' and essential positions'. 
What are the positions, classifications and locations relating to those tasks which are considered to be nonessential. 
-I shall take the opportunity to comment on the question asked by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  I think there is a relationship between these 2 Bills. If there had been an Australian ship reporting system operating in those days we might not have had any historic shipwrecks. I also take the opportunity, before I debate these Bills, to express my gratitude and appreciation to the retiring  Clerk  of the House, Norman James Parkes. I wish to say how much I appreciated, as a new member, his courtesy and assistance and kindly attitude to the problems which new members faced. I wish him well in his retirement and a long and happy life. 
The Navigation Amendment Bill 1976 is similar in many aspects to the Navigation Bill 1975 which had not passed the Senate when the infamous sacking of November 1975 took place. Hence the Bill lapsed. 
The honourable member will lapse without a sacking, so he should not worry. The essential difference between the 2 Bills is that this Government has deleted those sections of the 1975 Bill which dealt with the operation of off-shore vessels and collision regulations. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill but it notes that the Government has delayed this legislation for more than a year. Despite the deletion of sections of the 1975 Bill relating to collision regulations, it is encouraging to note that at the meeting of the Marine and Ports Council of Australia held in Surfers Paradise on 26 November 1976 the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  advanced the proposition that a single unitary law should apply to all shipping on the Australian coast instead of the present fragmented method whereby 7 separate governments are all involved in regulating shipping. While the Minister did not achieve complete success in having his proposal accepted by the relevant State Ministers, at least they recognised that advantages were to be gained from uniform shipping legislation and the matter is to be further discussed at the next meeting of the Marine and Ports Council of Australia. 
More positively, the Council agreed that the Australian Government should legislate to implement on the widest possible basis the international collision regulations which, in effect, are the rules of the road at sea but leaving to State laws the administration of navigation rules for vessels within harbours. Apart from the large number of miscellaneous amendments which I shall touch on later, the 4 major changes made to the principal Act, the Navigation Act 1912, are: Firstly, it raises the limit of liability of owners of seagoing ships for loss of life or property, for example, from $20 per ton to $189 per ton for personal claims and from $1 1 to $61 per ton for property claims by adopting the provisions ofthe international convention relating to owners of seagoing ships which was signed at Brussels in October 19S7 and which came into force in 1968. Secondly, consequent upon the provisions of the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act 1970, Part II of the principal Act is amended to redefine visiting British ships so as to exclude British ships visiting Australia in the course of an international voyage. 
Thirdly, new Division 14 is added to Part IV of the principal Act thus giving legislative force to the unique ship reporting system introduced by the previous Minister for Transport on a voluntary basis. Fourthly, following the passage of the Historic Shipwrecks Bill it is necessary that reference be made to its provisions concerning compensation when rights to a shipwreck are altered. The basic legislation governing the activities of Australian merchant shipping is the Navigation Act 1912-1972. This Act was the result of discussions during the years immediately after federation when At was sought to adapt existing British legislation to Australian conditions. The base legislation was the British Merchant Shipping Act 1894 which, in many ways, reflected attitudes at the end of the 19th century. In the period since 1912 numerous considerations have been given to updating the Navigation Act to bring it more in line with the needs of a young and growing maritime federation. The most recent attempt to review the Act was the appointment by the then Minister, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  in 1973 of the Maritime Industry Commission of Inquiry under the stewardship of  Mr Mai  Summers to report on 'The need for revision and modernisation of existing legislation'.  His  comprehensive report was tabled in the Parliament some weeks ago. 
From time to time differing views have been expressed as to how government should go about updating Australia's maritime laws. One view is that a completely new Act designed to meet Aus.tralian conditions should be enacted. Another view is that the existing Navigation Act should be updated by a series of gradual amendments. The Bill before us represents a stage in that second view. As far as the Summers report is concerned the Government has yet to indicate its intentions. So far the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has said only that the Government is giving consideration to the report. For all practical purposes it may be simpler for the industry if the gradual amendment procedure is followed. However, it is a poor reflection on our Constitution and our progress as a Federation that, 76 years after attaining nationhood, our shipping industry is regulated in the main by British legislation drawn up to meet the needs of a 19th century colonial empire.  Mr Summers  reported that there is a need for urgent action to enact Aus.tralian legislation relating to the registration of ships in Australia'. He noted that legally there are no 'Australian ships'. At law they are British ships registered in Australia under the U.K. Merchant Snipping Act. He goes on at page 5 of his report to say. 
The bar to effective legislation by the Australian Parliament has been the Australian Constitution which it was believed did not give the Commonwealth Government power to enact provisions comparable to those contained in Part 1 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1 894. 
The years since Federation have seen a number of great changes in the Australian shipping scene. Sails gave way to steam, coal-fired vessels to oil-fired vessels, then to oil-powered motor vessels and gas turbines, and maybe on the horizon nuclear-powered vessels. Coastal passenger vessels were displaced by surface and rail transport, which was followed by the motor car and the aeroplane. Sea-borne general cargo has lost out to surface transport while bulk carriers have brought a new dimension to sea transport. Yet through all these changes Australia has held fast to the principles of the 19th century British Merchant Shipping Act. 
John Bach in  A Maritime History of Australia,  which was published recently, referred to the activities of the Imperial Shipping Committee which was established in 1918 and which functioned between the 2 World Wars. Describing the argument of the Dominions as to the extent to which they were still bound to observe British maritime law within their own waters, he said: 
Indeed, for Australia this question is still not resolved, since ship registrations still have to be referred to the Central British office at Cardiff, United Kingdom, for final approval, a remnant of the 1 894 Shipping Act that infuriates some and enchants others. 
There would be many Australians who would be infuriated to learn of that. In his second reading speech and in the explanatory notes attached to the Bill the Minister details the provisions of clause 34 which substitutes a new Part VII for the existing Part VII of the principal Act. As in the Bill of 2 October 1975, the clause provides for the exclusion of sub-paragraph (c) of Article 1 of the 1957 International Convention. The effect of this exclusion is to remove the opportunity for ship owners to limit their liability in respect of damage to harbour works or for wreck removal. The inclusion of this clause is surprising, because when the 1 975 Bill was debated the present Minister for Transport, then the Opposition spokesman on transport, objected to the exclusion of sub-paragraph (c) of Article 1 of the Convention. He claimed that this would impose a further burden on Australian ship owners. At page 2175 of  Hansard  of that date he said: 
The practical effect of this is that ship owners in Australia will have to pay massive amounts in liability insurance to cover these increased risks. This will lead to significantly higher sea transport costs within Australia. 
As the sponsor of this Bill he may care to explain to the House what has caused the dramatic reversal of his previous opinion in respect of subparagraph (c) of Article 1 of the Convention. 
In the same debate he embarked on his usual union-bashing exercise by claiming that the wage levels, crewing requirements and living conditions which have been imposed on Australian shipowners make it quite uneconomic for Australian vessels to compete against vessels flying foreign flags. A little later in that same speech he contradicted himself by saying: 
It seems that basically we are not a maritime nation. There does not exist in Australia the incentive for men to go to sea and earn their living. 
One would have thought that if conditions on Australian ships are so well paid and so luxurious as the Minister would have us believe, there would be a wild rush of landlubbers to go to sea. But that is not the case. He ignored also the fact that some Australian general cargo vessels have operated profitably and with increasing success on the Australia- Japan service. He often slams seamen for their wage levels and working conditions, but the 1975 annual report of the Australian National Line shows crews' wages and allowances as 20.1 per cent of expenses. The 1976 annual report shows crews' wages and allowances as having reduced to 18.5 per cent of expenses. Clearly, total crewing costs are an important factor but the Minister was overstating the case. 
I would like to take the opportunity to refer to that part of the Summers report under the heading of 'coastal shipping'. In paragraphs 6 and 17 the Commission says: 
The coastal section of the Australian shipping industry faces serious problems at the present dme. Shipownerswhether in general cargo, bulk trades or in tankers- say that these problems are labour problems. Shipowners say also that there are too many unions and that they act irresponsibly. 
Then in paragraph 1 8 the Commission says: 
The maritime unions do not agree with these statements. 
If we move to paragraph 19 we find the Commission saying:  it has been too easy to blame industrial matters for lack of development in the shipping industry in the past. 
I commend very strongly to the Minister and to the Government the next paragraph because it represents a constructive and positive approach to the problem. It says: 
Nevertheless industrial attitudes between owners and unions require a strong effort, which the Commission believes only the Commonwealth Government can make, to bring both sides to a better working relationship. Failing this the Commission would expect that we shall continue to see the demise of major parts of the coastal shipping industry. 
I believe that that is the responsible way to go about it because I see the role ofthe Minister for Transport as being that of a good broker, not of an agitator and certainly not of inflaming already delicate and difficult conditions between employers and employees. 
Clauses 4 and 5 of the Bill amend the definition of 'visiting British ships' to take into account the consequential effects of the UK Merchant Shipping Act 1970. The provisions of that Act extend to masters and crews of British ships visiting Australia in the course of an international voyage and are different from the provisions of the Australian Navigation Act. The amended definitions exclude from the category of visiting British ships those ships that have Australian connections, that are chartered or based in Australia and those ships which by regulation are declared not to be visiting British ships, such as vessels operated by the British Phosphate Commission, which are registered in London but whose operations are based on Australia. 
Clause 4 ( 1 ) (d) extends the references in the principal Act to the owner of a ship to include a reference to the operator, except in a few specified circumstances. The many minor amendments in the Bill cover such items as adjustments to incorporate the metric system. I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that a nautical mile is now declared to be 1852 metres. The amendments include the appointment of superintendents or  deputy  superintendents where there is no mercantile office, procedures concerning production of competency certificates, procedures concerning character reports of seamen, administration of discharged seamen's wages, administration of deceased seamen's estates, accommodation, and numerous other items which time will not permit me to detail. 
I want to move now to clause 23 of the Bill because it is a very important provision for which the Department of Transport, the previous Minister for Transport- the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)-  and the Australian Government can take a great deal of credit. Clause 23 of the Bill creates a new division 14 at the end of Part IV, which gives legislative force to the Australian ship reporting system, AUSREP. AUSREP was established on a voluntary basis by the previous Minister for Transport following the loss of the 'Blythe Star'. This ship reporting system is unique in the world and stands to the continuing credit of the honourable member for Newcastle. It is an excellent example of Australian initiative in the field of navigation and marine safety, like the aviation interscan system now under development. 
The present Minister for Transport ridiculed the honourable member for Newcastle during the 1975 debate on this issue for claiming AUSREP would be a world first, but again he has had a change of heart, I am pleased to note, and it has remained part of this Bill. The wide acceptability of the ship reporting system, even on a voluntary basis, and its importance is evidenced by the fact that the Marine Operations Centre was involved in 1327 search and rescue coastal surveillance and general maritime incidents in 1975-76, which represents an increase over the previous year of 49 such incidents. Searches were carried out in 41 of the incidents. Of the 994 ships that participated in AUSREP in 1975-76, 720 were foreign-owned vessels. 
The disturbing factor in the report of the Marine Operations Centre is the high frequency of incidents involving pleasure craft. In fact, 308- or 23 per cent- of the 1327 incidents reported concerned pleasure craft, the largest single category. Much more needs to be done by State governments to ensure the safe operation of pleasure craft off our coastline. In many cases powered craft are taken to sea at weekends by people with little or no knowledge of seacraft. It is not unusual to see off our coast people fishing in very small open boats- boats down to the size sometimes oft I would guess, 9 feet, but certainly no more than 10 feet and powered by 3 horsepower motors. In some cases, I suggest, they would be 20 years old, but with 3 horsepower or 6 horsepower outboard motors. In many ways this practice is an invitation to disaster, and when difficulty does occur it also involves, in the aggregate, a great deal of public expense. Governments have a responsibility to protect people from themselves by much closer supervision of pleasure craft that put out from our foreshores. 
I want to turn now from the Navigation Amendment Bill to the companion Bill in this debate, the Historic Shipwrecks Bill 1976, which originated in the other place. The Opposition welcomes this legislation, particularly as, like the Navigation Amendment Bill, it was initiated by the previous Labor Government. The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  looks at me, but a decision was made by Cabinet on 2 June 1975 to appoint a committee and that resulted in this legislation being drawn up. I think he now agrees with me; he has nodded. 
-Is the Attorney-General suggesting that the legislation is a historic wreck? 
-I am suggesting that the Attorney-General is a historic wreck in the making. 
Sitting suspended from  5.59  to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I had commenced my remarks relating to the Historic Shipwrecks Bill. As I said, the Opposition welcomes this legislation, because, like the Navigation Amendment Bill, it was initiated by the previous Labor Government. It is a sad reflection on some Australians that legislation should be necessary to protect our historic relics and evidence of early visitors to our shores from the maraudings and the destruction of irresponsible vandals. The provisions of the Bill will enable protection to be given to the many relics and wrecked vessels that lie off the coast of our continent. No federal legislation exists to cover historic shipwrecks, although the Navigation Act has some powers related to shipwrecks. The passage of this Bill has necessitated amendments to the Navigation Act which I mentioned earlier in this debate. The legislation provides controls for the recovery of wrecks and relics declared to be historic and for their disposition. 
Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the inclusion in Schedule I of the agreement between the Netherlands and Australia concerning old Dutch shipwrecks which was signed at The Hague in November 1972. In that agreement the Netherlands transferred to Australia all its right, title and interest in and to wrecked vessels of the Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie, or VOC, lying on or off the coast of the State of Western Australia and in and to any articles thereof to Australia which shall accept such right, title and interest. Article 4 of the agreement provided for the establishment of a committee of 4 persons, two nominated by Australia and two by the Netherlands, to determine the disposition and subsequent ownership of the articles recovered from vessels between the Netherlands, Australia and the State of Western Australia. Honourable members will no doubt be aware of the West Australian Maritime Archaeology Act 1973 and the challenge to its validity now before the High Court. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  has indicated that should the Court's judgment impinge on the Bill before us, the Bill will be reviewed in the light of that judgment. 
Briefly, this legislation gives the Minister the power to declare as historic shipwrecks or historic articles the remains of ships or articles taken from them that are of historic significance. Persons in possession of or finding such items are required to notify the Minister, who may then direct how they are to be dealt with. The Minister may also authorise the exploration for a recovery of shipwrecks and articles under appropriate conditions. The environs of a declared wreck or article may be protected by the Minister declaring that area a protected zone and applying controls to any activity in the zone so declared. The report ofthe Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections, set up by the Whitlam Government on 10 April 1974 and chaired by  Mr P.  H. Pigott, established the importance of the mass of historic material that lies beneath the sea off our coastline. It shows that soo identified shipwrecks have been located, the oldest of which is the  Tryal,  an English East India Company merchantman lost in 1622 off the West Australian coast, 66 years before Dampier reached Australia. I would like to take this opportunity to pay a tribute to  Mr Pigott,  who chaired that Committee of Inquiry. He performed an excellent service to the nation and to those who follow us in drawing attention to the valuable material that we need to take account of and to preserve and examine. I think I can do no better than to refer to  Mr Pigott  's report. Paragraph 14.2 states: 
Marine archaeology, moreover, is a vital source for those Australian museums which belatedly are investigating and exhibiting maritime history. The Committee is concerned that the legislative powers and procedures at present in force cannot protect historic shipwrecks in Australia from indiscriminate looting. Future research in marine archaeology will be severely impaired because of the scores of significant shipwrecks which have been pillaged, damaged or disturbed by amateur archaeologists and treasure seekers in the last two decades. Since the invention of the aqualung in 1943, and the subsequent popularisation of underwater activities, diving in search of shipwrecks has become a popular sport and, on parts of the Australian coast, an unsystematic industry. In some wrecks relics have been recovered in a responsible manner. In other wrecks the divers have looted what they assessed as marketable and have blown up or discarded the remainder: often the remainder has been more important, historically. 
In paragraph 14.3 he continues: 
As the earliest wreck off the West Australian coast is the earliest known contact of European Man with Australia- 66 years before Dampier's voyages and 148 years before James 
Cook's discovery of the east coast- it is disturbing to learn of the wanton destruction that has occurred. In 1622 the  Tryal  sank in fairly deep water and hence escaped battering from the waves. When she was discovered in 1969, she seemed to be virtually as she was when sank three centuries previously. In 1971, however, a museum expedition found that the wreck had been recently blown to pieces. Apparently charges had been placed along the hull and in the mouths of the ancient cannons, and the resulting explosion had not only scattered the relics but had also brought down a cliff, thus burying many of the remains. 
Further on the report refers to the wreck of the  Gilt Dragon  which was wrecked off the West Australian coast in 1656. It also was damaged recklessly by explosives 3 centuries later. The report of the  Daily News  of 14 October 1963 described the condition ofthe vessel when it was found. It also deals with the condition of the wreck after it was damaged.  Mr Pigott  stated, in relation to this wreck: 
These are not isolated incidents of underwater vandalism although they may be the most serious. 
Reference is also made to the activities of skin diving clubs. A magazine called 'Skin Diving in Australia' describes how divers found a ship's money box, but realising that the box contained only old paper money and documents, threw it back into the sea. 
The way you are going, you will need it before long. You might go into the sea with it. Another excellent publication called The Treasure Divers Guide' presents up-dated information on sunken treasures throughout the world. Australia gets a good mention. The  publication states that pirating of wrecks is increasing rapidly along the Australian coast. I commend to honourable members a perusal of that report to see what information could be gained on our early history. The surprising feature is that of all the vessels that must have arrived off the west coast of Australia, surely some persons must have survived and reached shore. Yet there seems to be no evidence whatsoever of the existence of white man or of the cohabitation of white man on our western coast. That is something which later investigation and research may reveal. It is certainly a very interesting subject and something that we as a nation should be preserving and devoting a lot more attention to. I can only request those people who participate in skin diving and underwater activities to have the utmost regard to preserving whatever relics they may come across. As I said earlier, the Opposition supports the view expressed by the Minister in his second reading speech on this Bill. The 
Opposition hopes that the legislation will adequately serve the purpose of protecting an important part of our national heritage. 
-The amendment is straightforward. It is consequential upon the passage of the Historic Shipwrecks Bill. The Opposition concurs with the amendment. 
-The Opposition concurs with the amendments. I draw the attention of the Committee to clause 9 which, as a result of the amendment which substitutes the word 'or ' for 'and ' now reads: 

a person has possession, custody or control of an article; and 
a notice applying in respect ofthe article is published in the  Gazette  under section 5 or 6, the person shall, within 30 days after the date of publication ofthe notice in the  Gazette,  give the prescribed notice to the Minister in relation to the article. 
The other 3 amendments are welcomed by the Opposition. In another place Opposition senators,  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland, brought these matters to the notice ofthe Minister for Adminstrative Services  (Senator Withers).  It is good to see that the undertaking which the Minister gave there, that he would give consideration to the comments of the honourable senators, has been carried out and that these amendments have arisen from that undertaking.  Senator Cavanagh  in another place in relation to new sub-clause (4A) of clause 9, quite rightly drew attention to the fact that a person could have an article or object which had been handed down through the family or which had been given to him by another person. The owner of the article could be completely unaware that it was an article declared as being of historic value. That person could be completely innocent of any intention to contravene the Act. Even though it was pointed out in reply that advertisements would be published about such articles and so on, that is a valid point. I am pleased to see that the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  has taken this up and that new subclause (4A) of clause 9 takes account of that matter. 
Likewise, in relation to the amendment to clause 17, sub-clause (2), a reasonable proposition was put in the other place. People could have reasonable grounds for thinking that notice had been given to the Minister and that they had complied with the provisions of the Act. The amendment to clause 23, the insertion of new sub-clause (SA), arose from a reference to clause 23 which deals with the powers of an inspector. This matter was dealt with at some length. It is worth noting the powers that an inspector has under these conditions. If we look at sub-clause (2) of clause 23 we see that it states: 
Where an inspector has reason to believe that a person has failed to comply with a notice given to the person under subsection 11 ( 1 ), the inspector may make application to a Justice of the Peace for a warrant authorising the inspector, with or without persons and equipment to assist him, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the person has failed to comply with the notice- 
to enter any specified land or premises; and 
to search any land or premises so entered and to break open any cupboard, drawer, desk, box, package or other receptacle, whether a fixture or not, on the land or in the premises. 
It was in the context of discussion on that clause about the powers of the inspector that the Attorney-General has quite reasonably brought forward the amendment at which we are looking. It brings into legislative form the possibility of self-incrimination as a reasonable excuse for failing to answer questions asked by an inspector. Under the circumstances the Opposition welcomes the amendments and supports them. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he give the cost of running (a) The Lodge and (b) Kirribilli House for the period January- June 1976 as he did for the period July-December 1975  (Hansard,  24 March 1976, page 936). 
2 ) Why is the appropriation for 1 976-77 for furniture and fittings for official establishments twice as high as the expenditure on them in 1975-76. 
Will he give the separate cost of the furniture and fittings for (a) Government House, (b) Admiralty House, (c) The Lodge and (d) Kirribilli House in 1976-77. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he tell me in answer to Question No. 1078 that a warrant was issued by the High Court Registry, Sydney, for  Mr Richard  Cobden to travel from Canberra to Sydney to attend and record the discussions at a meeting at the High Court, Darlinghurst, of a small group formed by the Chief Justice to advise the Chief Justice on works of an for the High Court building being erected in Canberra. 
If so, is  Mr Cobden  a stenographer; if not, what special qualifications does  Mr Cobden  possess that made it appropriate for him to record the dicussions of the meeting. 
On what date, and at what time, did  Mr Cobden  travel to Sydney. 
On what date, and at what time, did  Mr Cobden  return to Canberra. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each of the members of the group who attended the mee ung. 
Which members of the group travelled to Sydney, and from where did they travel. 
On what date, and between what times, was the meeting held. 
Have other meetings been held on the same subject; if so, when and where. 
Why was  Mr Cobden  and  Mr Mollison's  travel not charged to the department by which they are employed. 
asked the Acting Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Has the Snowy Mountains Council purchased an aircraft to replace the one destroyed in the unfortunate crash on 20 May 1976. 
) If so, what is its type and registration number. 
From whom was it purchased, and what was the purchase price. 
Is the aircraft now in service, and has it been in continual service since purchase; if not, why not. 
What have been the costs of maintaining the aircraft since purchase. 
When is the next overhaul service due to be carried out on the aircraft, and what is the anticipated cost of the service. 
asked the Attorney-General upon notice: 
What was the date of the earliest transaction involving Lockheed Aircraft Corporation mentioned in the documents provided by the United States Senate Sub-Committee on Multinational Corporations to the United States Department of Justice and by that Department to his Department 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is a  Mr John  Malcolm mentioned in the documents involving Lockheed Aircraft Corporation which have been provided by the United States Senate Sub-Committee on Multi national Corporations to the United States Department of Justice and by that Department to the Australian Government. 
If so, on what date is he first mentioned. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1) Is a P. Mingrone mentioned in the documents involving Lockheed Aircraft Corporation which have been provided by the United States Senate Sub-Committee on Multi national Corporations to the United States Department of Justice and by the Department to the Australian Government. 
If so, on what date is he first mentioned. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is a  Mr Peter  Ingram mentioned in the documents involving Lockheed Aircraft Corporation which have been provided by the United States Senate Sub-Committee on Multi-National Corporations to the United States Department of Justice and by that Department to the Australian Government. 
) If so, on what date is he first mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Grants Commission take into account the disability suffered by the Brisbane City Council in providing an urban public bus service for Brisbane in its last assessment of the claim for financial assistance by the Queensland Government. 
If so, can he say to what extent that disability was taken into account in determining Queensland's claim for assistance. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 140 which was placed on the Notice Paper on 16 September 1976. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the position of Military Secretary at Government House abolished in 1 972. 
Has the position been now re-established at the rank oflieutenant colonel. 
For what reasons has the position been re-established. 
What duties does the Military Secretary perform. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that the Insurance Commission be asked to obtain relevant information from insurance companies in order to assist in the collation of statistics on road traffiic accidents. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many persons travelled by TAA from Canberra to Sydney on 20 May 1976 on tickets charged to the High Court of Australia 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What sum was paid under each category ofthe Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme during (a) August and (b) September 1976. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What sum was paid under each category of the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme during October 1976. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his Department sought a legal opinion on the cash balance of the Road Safety and Standards Authority which was noted on page 129 of the Auditor-General's Report for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
If so, what was the result of this action. 
If not, when does he expect his Department will seek a  legal opinion on this matter. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the committee inquiring into Government transport undertakings, chaired by  Mr James  MacNeill, submitted to him its report on Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas. 
If so, (a) what are its recommendations and (b) when will the report be tabled in the Parliament 
3 ) If not, when is it expected that the report on TAA and Qantas will be completed, and will he undertake to table it in the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the committee inquiring into Government transport undertakings, chaired by  Mr James  MacNeill, completed its investigation of the Australian Shipping Commission. 
If so, (a) what are its recommendations and (b) when will the report be tabled in the Parliament. 
If not, when is it expected that the investigation will be completed, and will he undertake to table the committee's report in the Parliament 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the committee inquiring into Government transport undertakings, chaired by  Mr James  MacNeill, completed its investigation into the Australian National Railways. 
If so, (a) what are its recommendations and (b) when will its report be tabled in the Parliament 
If not, when is it expected that the investigation will be completed, and will he undertake to table the committee's report in the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Minister explain why only 4 copies of the report entitled  Indicators of Community Well-being  have been made available to members through the Bills and Papers Office. 
Is this further evidence of the Government's determination to deny the Parliament important community information. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How many citizens band type radios were imported in each of the years 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76 and in 1976-77 to date? 
What was the value of those imports, and what was the total import duty paid in each of the same years? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Which units of the Regular Army and the Army Reserve of Field Force Command and Logistic Command were engaged or were scheduled to engage in exercises within Australia between 16 October and 16 December 1975. 
Which of these exercises were conducted or were scheduled to be conducted with live ammunition. 
Which units of the Field Force Command held or were scheduled to hold range practice during the same period. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are medical practitioners authorised to determine which doctors may visit individual nursing homes in the Electoral Division of Shortland. 
If so, what action can he take to ensure that patients in nursing homes in the Division retain their right to select the doctor of their choice to attend them in a nursing home. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name and address, and who is the proprietor of each approved nursing home in the Electoral Division of Shortland. 
What is the number of approved beds in each of those nursing homes. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many visits were made to each of the approved nursing homes in the Electoral Division of Shortland during 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
What sum was paid to individual medical practitioners for services to approved nursing homes in that Division during the same years. 
What is the name of each of the medical practitioners referred to in pan (2), and how many individual medical consultations were provided by each of those medical practitioners. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1) What amount was paid to the Queensland Government for each project that had previously been approved under the Federal Urban Public Transport Program for Queensland during 1974-75 and 1975-76 and in 1976-77 to date. 
What amount remains undrawn for each of the projects approved for Queensland under the program since its inception. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
On what occasions did the Queensland Government seek his permission to reallocate to alternative projects funds already approved to Queensland under the Federal Urban Public Transport Program during 1976. 
2 ) What was his decision on each occasion. 
For which projects did the Queensland Government seek to allocate funds, and what was the amount of reallocation sought for each project. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Queensland Government sought funding for the purchase of 75 buses by Brisbane City Council under the Federal Urban Public Transport Program during 1 976. 
If so, on what dates were the requests made. 
3 ) What was his reply on each occasion. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has Ansett Airlines been granted approval to operate a series of livestock charters between Australia anc; New Zealand. 
If so, what are the terms of each approved charter. 
What aircraft are expected to be utilised in the operation of the charters. 
When was the application for each charter made, and when did the Government make a decision on each. 
Were all applications approved. 
Has Trans Australia Airlines made application for similar charter services; if so, what action has been taken in respect of each request. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What were the terms of reference of the Aviation Industry Review Committee established in March 1 976. 
) What is the composition of the Committee. 
With whom has the Committee conferred. 
Are consumers of airline services represented on the Committee. 
Has the Committee completed its inquires; if so, when. 
Have any reports of the Committee been handed to him; if so, how many. 
What recommendations have been made to the Government, and what action has been taken to implement them. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he table in Parliament the reports of the Aviation Industry Review Committee; if so, when; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Aviation Industry Review Committee recommended to the Government that (a) the existing regional boundaries for civil aviation operations in his Department be redrawn and (b) the regional organisations concentrate simply on minor day to day matters with all major problems being handled by the central administration. 
If so, what action does the Government propose to take to implement the recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Aviation Industry Review Committee recommended to the Government that a separate Civil Aviation unit, headed by a Director-General reporting to the Minister, be established in his Department. 
If so, what action does the Government propose to take to implement the recommendation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did he tell me in answer to Question No. 1486 part (2), that publicaton of reports by the Commonwealth is not intended and release to other than Commonwealth Authorities is at the discretion of the State agency as indicated in the progress reports. 
If so, will he explain what he means by this statement. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
When will he be able to say when an announcement will be made concerning the extension of the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme to southbound cargoes. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
) Did he say on 2 November 1976, that he would be holding discussions with the Treasurer about aspects of payment made under the southbound freight equalisation scheme. 
If so, have these discussions taken place. 
If discussions have taken place, what was the outcome. 
If not, when does he expect they will take place. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did he say on 2 November 1976 that, following his discussions with the Treasurer about the southbound freight equalisation scheme, it was proposed that officers of his Department would travel to Tasmania to discuss aspects of the scheme with interested persons. 
) If so, have these discussions taken place. 
If discussions have taken place what are the names and classifications of all Australian Government officers who attended. 
What are the names and positions of all persons involved in the discussions with his officers. 
Where did these discussions take place. 
If these discussions have not taken place, when does he anticipate they will take place. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What roads are currently being funded under the States Grants  (Beef Roads Assistance) Act  1 968. 
What is the estimated date of completion of each of the projects. 
3 ) What is the estimated total cost of each of the projects. 
What is the annual cost of maintenance of each of the projects. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article appearing in the  Courier Mail  on 27 November 1976 in which it has alleged that he refused to re-impose a 12 hour embargo on pilots drinking alcohol before flight. 
If so, does he favour a 12 hour embargo or an 8 hour embargo. 
Has he refused to re-impose a 12 hour embargo; if so, why, and will he seriously reconsider his decision to reject the 12 hour embargo. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice 
1 ) Was he invited to address a public meeting of citizens, concerned about the Omega navigation system, at St Andrews Hall, Bairnsdale, Victoria, on 3 December 1976; if so, what was his response. 
Did 4 officers of his Department attend the meeting; if so, (a) what was the name, classification and salary of each and the purpose of their attendance, (b) from where did they travel to Bairnsdale and by what means, (c) if they travelled by aircraft, whose aircraft was used, and what was the type of aircraft used, (d) what was the estimated cost of travel for the 4 officers concerned and (e) when did they (i) depart for Bairnsdale and (ii) return to their place of departure. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he table in the Parliament the report of the Perth Railway Feasibility Study; if not, why not 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice 
1 ) When does he expect the report and recommendations of the study into privately operated urban route transport operations, as mentioned on page 62 of his Department's 1975-76 report, will be considered by the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
Will he table in the Parliament the report and recommendations of the study; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he consider publishing the report of the Parramatta Railway Study; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) When does he expect the Bureau of Tansport Economics to undertake an economic evaluation of a standard urban passenger bus, as mentioned on page 62 of his Department's 1975-76 annual report. 
When does he expect the Bureau's study to be completed. 
Will he table in the Parliament the Bureau's findings; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has a Strategic Planning and Resource Allocation Division been established in his Department. 
If so, is one of its functions to co-ordinate road financing reports and other modal financing reports before they go to him; if not, what are its functions. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he give an assurance that the expanded Bureau of Transport Economics will be able to examine and publicly report on current Government policies in respect of transport without prior vetting by the Department of Transport; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he give an assurance that the new Bureau of Transport Economics will be able to actively seek, from the public, individuals, community groups, State Government agencies and local governments, facts and opinions, that may be opposed to Government policies, and that the results of these investigations will be publicly reported; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he state in answer to Question No. 1422 that the retrospective payment of $50,000 in respect of 1974-75 financial year to Connair was approved by the Government and paid in April 1976. 
If so, is there a conflict between his answer and the information on page 40 of the Senate Estimates Committee's consideration of his Department which shows that additional subsidies were paid to Connair Pty Ltd for 1974-75 and 1975-76 of $50,000 and $83,333 respectively, as the result of Government decisions made in June 1 976. 
When were the subsidies (a) approved and (b) actually paid. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What studies have been carried out in recent years into the composition and reasons for variations in domestic air passenger traffic. 
Is he able to make available any of the results of such studies. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice 
1 ) With reference to the answers given to Questions Nos 1268, 1269 and 1270, when is it expected that the Advisory Committee on Safety and Vehicle Design will make recommendations on (a) stop lamp indicators, (b) vehicle colour selection and (c) reduction or fire risk. 
When is it anticipated that Australian design rules will be drawn up. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer provided to question No. 1239, by whom are restrictions being considered and when will the restrictions be made public. 
I think all honourable members in this House would join with the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  in the sentiments that he has expressed about young people in need. It is unfortunate that his colleagues in this place do not hold that same view. I hope that they will revise their outlook. I remind honourable members opposite of their great leader's famous statement that life is not meant to be easy. I hope that when the honourable member for Franklin returns to his electorate he wil say: 'I am sorry, boys. I want to help you but my leader says that life is not meant to be easy. I am sorry'. 
Earlier this evening we heard a bleating contribution from the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  who complained that bank managers are not telling the truth. Towards the end of last year the statisticians who were preparing the figures for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations could not produce the correct seasonally adjusted unemployment figures in Australia. Therefore, the Government decided to discontiue producing seasonally adjusted unemployment figures. As far as the Government was concerned, it was the Department's fault; the figures could not be relied upon. Now the consumer price index figures for December cannot be relied upon, because they wil not produce the kind of result that this Government wants to hear. Therefore, the basket of goods has to be changed. The Department now has to try to cook a set of figures which Will bring about the results that the Government wants to hear. We now have a back bencher from a marginal seat coming forward and saying: 'It is these terrible bank managers. They have not got sufficient backbone to tell the public what the Government is really saying'. If what the honourable member for Barton has said is accurate, it means that the new lending rate in his electorate has been cut by only 8 per cent. I should Uke to inform him that in my electorate bank managers have been instructed to reduce new lending by 50 per cent. That is the instruction which has gone out to bank managers. The bank managers themselves are very worried about small businesses. They predict a crunch on small businesses in the coming quarter. Surely there is no way this Government, with its iron clad policies, can off-load the blame on to the local bank managers. For heaven's sake! After all, the Bank of New South Wales is a major contributor to the making of the policy of the Government parties. It is a major contributor to their funds. Surely honourable members opposite should have the decency to stand up in this place and accept the responsibility for their policies. They should not try to off-load the blame on to the bank managers. 
We have heard much about inflation and devaluation from honourable members opposite. In the last couple of days we have heard the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  defending devaluation. I want to draw the attention of honourable members opposite to a statement attributed to the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  in the  Land  on 14 October, only 45 days before devaluation. The article stated: 
The  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party said that. The 4 Government leaders to whom I referred earlier said that it would only cause another spurt of inflation. Yesterday we were told by the Treasurer that devaluation is the answer to inflation. I put it to honourable members opposite that they ought to think seriously about this matter. I know that honourable members opposite do not like to raise in their own Caucus rooms matters that are contentious, but they should ask the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party what caused him to have such a reversal of opinion on what was the right financial policy for this nation. I repeat his words: 
Any immediate currency change would prompt another inflationary spun that would quickly offset any advantage it might bring exporters. ' 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he tell me in answer to Question No. 1232 that the Insurance Commission has :no authority under its Act to require insurers to supply road safety data and to request them to do so would not be connected with the administration of the Act. 
Did he also say that no approach had been made to the Treasurer for the Commission to obtain road safety data. 
In view of the statement made by the Expert Group on Road Safety and the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety that insurance offices collect such information, will he now request the Treasurer to initiate amendments to the  Insurance Act  1973 to require insurance companies to supply data on road traffic accidents, in order to improve the availability of road accident statistics; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the name of each completed project funded under the urban local roads category of the  Roads Grants Act  1974. 
What is the estimated total cost of each of the projects. 
What projects are currently being funded under this category. 
What is the estimated date of completion of each of these projects. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the location of each completed project funded under the urban arterial roads category of the  Roads Grants Act  1974. 
) What is the estimated total cost of each of the projects. 
What projects are currently being funded under this category. 
What is the estimated date of completion of each of these projects. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1) What is the location of each completed project funded under the rural local roads category of the  Roads Grants Act  1974. 
) What is the estimated total cost of each of the projects. 
What projects are currently being funded under this category. 
What is the estimated completion date of each of these projects. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1) What is the location of each completed project funded under the rural arterial roads category of the  Roads Grants Act  1974. 
What is the estimated cost of each of the projects. 
What projects are currently being funded under this category. 
What is the estimated date of completion of each of these projects. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to Question No. 1267, exactly what consideration is being given by the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance to the branding of retreaded tyres, and when will some recommendations be forthcoming. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the location and description of each completed project funded under the export and major commercial roads category of the National Roads Act 1 974. 
) What is the estimated total cost of each of the projects. 
What projects are currently being funded under this category. 
What is the estimated date of completion of each of these projects. 
What is the annual cost of maintenance of each of the projects, where applicable. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the answer to Question No. 1273, is he satisfied with the progress being made by the States in adopting the draft regulations of the Australian Advisory Transport Committee. 
How many States have adopted the regulations in full. 
3 ) Which States are lagging in adopting the regulations. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer provided to Question No. 1241, by whom are restrictions being considered and when will the restrictions be made public. 
-Earlier we heard the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  refer to trade pricing practices. 
-It would not make any difference whether you stood up. No one would recognise you were here from what you have to contribute. The honourable member for Franklin referred to practices within the petroleum reselling industry. Again here is a very clear example of somebody saying something for the home electorate, something to be run in the local Press, but at the same time subscribing to and supporting in this chamber a policy of dual standards in respect of petroleum retailing. For many months the service station associations throughout Australia have been seeking from this Government a decision on the recommendations contained in the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum concerning petroleum reselling. Honourable members opposite are extorting the motorist. Their funds are provided by the petroleum organisations which they seek to represent. They are extorting from the motorist funds that go into their Party's coffers. I wish to Heaven that they would be honest enough to admit it in this place because back in their home States - 
You prove it for me by your very words. 
That is about all we could expect from you. Today we heard the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  saying that he had a deep commitment to see that Australian motorists- Australian consumersreceived petrol at the cheapest possible price. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Griffith knows that no point of order is involved. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, this is not the first occasion in this chamber on which you have had to draw attention to the performances 324 REPRESENTATIVES 22 February 1977  Adjournment  of the  Deputy  Whip on the Government side. It is a very poor reflection on him, given his years of experience, that he still does not yet know how to conduct himself in this place. I am grateful,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you are here from time to time to provide some measure of protection from political vandals such as those who sit opposite and who are led by the  Deputy  Government Whip. 
All imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly, 

 -Again, Mr Deputy Speaker, may I express my gratitude for your wise and just ruling. To the honourable member for Griffith I say: If the cap fits, wear it. Today the Minister expressed the view that he had a deep commitment to providing Australians with the cheapest possible petrol. Why then has he not as the responsible Minister brought before this Parliament a recommendation? I notice that the honourable member for Griffith is now hurling items around the chamber. That, again, is highly disorderly. The Minister has a responsibility to bring a recommendation before this Parliament. It is absolute clap-trap for the honourable member for Franklin to talk about lower petrol prices when the Government has a recommendation from the Industries Assistance Commission. I would like the Minister, as evidence of good faith, to tell the Parliament what view he has been putting to the Cabinet in the discussions about the adoption of the IAC's recommendations on crude oil pricing, because what has been discussed by the honourable member for Franklin in respect of margins to resellers and prices- I suport him in the view that all resellers should have the same opportunity to buy at the same price- is in direct contradiction to the actions that have been taken by the Minister. I ask the Minister to tell the Parliament at the first opportunity what view he has put within the Cabinet in the series of discussions that have taken place on the recommendations of the IAC. Surely the people of New South Wales and all the motorists- not the industrial buyers but the motorists- are entitled to buy petrol at the best possible price. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the location of each completed project funded under the minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements (MITERS) category of the  Roads Grants Act  1974. 
What is the estimated total cost of each of the projects. 
What projects are currently being funded under this category. 
What is the estimated completion date of each of these projects. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the citizens band radio service. 
When was the service inaugurated, and by whom was it authorised. 
What band of frequencies is used by the service. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the name, classification and employing organisation of each State and Australian Government official attending meetings of the Railway Group. 
When and where did these meetings take place. 
3 ) What has been the outcome of these meetings. 
What specific issues have been raised at these meetings. 
5 ) Have any papers been prepared on these issues. 
Will he table in the Parliament the material produced at these meetings; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as claimed by the member for Sturt  (Hansard,  18 November 1976, page 2878), that his Department has established a working party to examine alternative methods of funding programs presently financed through Section 96 grants. 
If so, what are the specific objectives of the working party. 
What consultation has taken place between his Department and the States. 
When does he expect to receive the working party's report. 
Will he table the report in the Parliament; if not, why not. 
-We are all indebted to the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  for a rather entertaining, if somewhat agitated, contribution to the debate. To summarise his speech, I would say that it was remarkable for its naivety, if I had to specify one quality. The honourable member accused the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  of referring to the 1870s. It is my observation that, if it were Welshpool in the 1870s, he was certainly trying to drag the honourable member for Holt screaming into the 19th century. It was far too quick. It may be pertinent for the House of Commons but certainly for Australia most of what he said was not pertinent. He speech illustrated that on the Government side there is a complete lack of understanding of the trade union movement and of the role that working people play in the community. 
Honourable members opposite are still infatuated with the result of the election of December 1975. They still believe what the Treasury is telling them. They still believe what their great leader is telling them, although some senators are now coming to doubt it. So much for the honourable member for Holt. No matter how much honourable members on the opposite side want to describe this legislation as not being union bashing legislation, that is just not accurate. Previous speakers on this side of the House have identified section 45D of the Bill before us as being the most evil piece of legislation ever to be brought before this chamber. Government speakers talked about not wanting confrontation and about conciliation. Surely the role of the 
Government ought to be that of being the honest broker, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said, of being the bridge between employees and employers; certainly not of being the agent provocateur, of being the agitator. The trade union movement cannot interpret the Government's policy other than as one of deliberate confrontation. This is so when we look at this part of the Bill and when we look at the fact which is being secluded from the view of the public that the industrial section of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has now been re-established and is operating again. 
The operation of the ASIO spy force in the trade union movement must be some new kind of conciliation. We also see the projected establishment of an industrial relations tribunal. Our friend who is proud to have been a member of the National Civic Council is probably drawing on the resources of ASIO in that respect to support his own organisation, and good luck to him. But the establishment of an industrial relations tribunal- a euphemism for an industrial police force- again is conciliation, as I understand the honourable member for Holt. Do we expect the trade union movement to interpret the Government's reneging on its election promises in respect of Medibank as being conciliation? Can we expect the man who is now paying a health tax, whether to a private fund or to Medibank, to think that that is an indication of good faith or of a conciliatory attitude on the part of the Government? Can we expect the work force to interpret the Government's reneging on its election promises on wage indexation as being other than an act of confrontation? No matter how the poor back benchers on the opposite side of the House may be deluded by their Leader the stark facts are that this Government has set its course on blind confrontation. This is the most irresponsible legislation to come before this Parliament. It is an anti-strike law. 
I want to bring to the notice of the Parliament a couple of matters in support of that observation. Disguised as an amendment to the Trade Practices Act we have this piece of anti-strike legislation. Unfortunately and tragically for the Australian community, it seems that there is a sufficient number of honourable members on the Government side who are prepared to put sound economic sense to one side and to follow the blind ideological course that if you put enough people out of work you can force the whole of the work force to take a reduction in living standards. That is what this Government is about. That is what the Leader of this Government has been saying over and over again. It is not what honourable members opposite told the people in 1975, and this is where they will come undone, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh said earlier. 
The honourable member might regard it as clap-trap. Others do not interpret it that way. Let me turn to the gang of four. This Bill deals with the withdrawal of goods and services. Let me direct the attention of honourable members to the gang of 4 Government Ministers that recently went up to Japan. They went to Japan and said: 'If you do not buy more of our beef we will not give you a renewal of the use of our port facilities for your fishing vessels'. In fact, if my recollection is correct the annual agreement was renewed for only one month and then it was extended by a month. It was made very clear by the gang of four that went to Japan that unless there was an increase in purchases of Australian beef by Japan the port facilities in Australia would not be available to Japanese fishing vessels. Maybe honourable members opposite do not see that as a withdrawal of services but I am sure that every rank and file trade unionist does. 
Let me turn now to the despicable remarks which were made by one member of the gang of four, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  on  Monday Conference  a few nights ago. He had the indecency to quote a little bit of juvenile doggerel on national television in the expectation that he would amuse some people by highlighting the very extreme personal hardships of thousands of people in the Hunter region. I would think that the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0'Keefe)  would be with me on this point. I would like to read into  Hansard  these 2 limericks. The second limerick clearly defines the purpose of this legislation. The first one reads: 
There were some men from Newcastle Who got themselves into a rassle When I said ' No strike if you want work ' They called me a jerk 
They were right- 
And lost their jobs in the hassle. 

 Government supporters interjecting- 

-I am quoting the words of the Minister for Transport. I am sorry about the content of it. These are the words of the Minister. The second limerick reads: 
There was a man named Bob Hawke Who then came out with a terrible squawk I - 
That is, the Minister for Transport- said 'Their jobs will be fine 
If they stay on the line 
No strike will stop the decline ' 
That is what this legislation is all about. They are the words of a Government Minister. He quoted them 2 nights ago. If honourable members opposite want to disregard what was said by one of their own senior Cabinet Ministers let them go right ahead. Let us look at the response which came from the Hunter region. The  Newcastle Morning Herald  in an editorial headed 'Appalling taste' said: 
In an appalling exhibition of poor taste and judgment on ABC TV's Monday Conference the Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  recited verse he had written belittling the efforts of some men from Newcastle who called me a jerk and lost their jobs in the hassle over the State Dockyard. The verse demonstrated only the Minister's insensitivity to the plight of workers, be they labourers, tradesmen, technical staff, or management, put out of work by the winding-down of the dockyard.  His  remarks will alienate people of compassion whatever their politics. They are in keeping only with the Government's refusal to compensate, in any way those who have lost most heavily from Cabinet's decision to let the dockyard die. 
Let me compare that with the Government's decision on Fraser Island which affects the Maryborough district. Because the seat is held by the Government $10m materialised out of nowhere. It was said that it was not enough. 
The honourable member for Riverina has said that the people up there are workers. He implies that the people in the Hunter region and the electors in the divisions of Paterson and Lyne are not workers. I hope his remarks are recorded. Radio station 2NX in the Hunter Valley ran an open line program today asking people to telephone in for their own ditties, thenown anti-Nixon limericks, to illustrate the community's reaction to the attitude of the Government to the Hunter Valley and to the Newcastle dockyard. 
-I will get the transcripts for the honourable member for Swan and have them incorporated in  Hansard  at a later date. He thinks it is funny. They are only people. They only need a living. They only want money to pay their bills to avoid foreclosure on their house mortgages. If that is the attitude he has towards people in trouble he can go on the record as saying it; do not make a farce of it. The  Newcastle Sun  in an editorial headed 'Smart alec doggerel' said: 
If last night's effort is the best he can do,  Mr Nixon  is a rotten poet. 
We have heard about people who are poets and do not know it. Here is a fellow who is not a poet and still does not know it. The editorial reads: 
It is incredible that a Minister of the Crown could produce a composition in such execrable taste. 
Does  Mr Nixon  really believe that the desperate plight of the men who have been thrown out of work at the State Dockyard, and of their dependants, is a subject for smartalec doggerel? 
An initial reaction might be that he would do better to devote whatever intellectual capacity he may have to making some contribution towards the solution of the country's worsening economic crisis rather than to verse. 
On second thoughts, though, a legislator who has shown himself capable of such excruciating insensitivity to human considerations should hand in his resignation, get back to the farm and spend his spare time at his listed recreations of golf, duck shooting and chess. 
Unfortunately the  Newcastle Sun  left out one other recreation in which the Minister has proudly claimed in this House he indulges and that is bare-back riding. I have heard the comment of Lyndon Johnson about Gerald Ford playing too much football without his skull cap. Maybe the Minister for Transport has engaged in too much buckjump riding without his skull cap. Maybe that is the explanation. The Minister's remarks illustrate the contempt that this Government has for people who are in difficulty. This Government through this and other projected legislation is following a course of deliberately expanding unemployment in this country in the foolish hope, the tragic hope, that if it gets enough people out of work it can force a reduction in living standards. That kind of belief is tragic for this country. This Government is expanding unemployment. It is perpetrating the position. The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  agrees with that view and supports it. 
The shipbuilding industry is a major industry. It is surprising in view of all the hawks on the other side- quite a number of new hawks became members of this House in 1975- that in all the discussions on the shipbuilding industry, the need to preserve employment in Australia and the need for economic recovery, none of those hawks made reference to the second part of the submission by the Department of Defence to the Tariff Board in 1971 which said that in a long term international conflict a major shipbuilding industry was vital to our security. All I can assume is that our defence hawks on the other side of the House expect that any conflict in future will be a 48-hour affair. They will be wiped out or somebody else will be wiped out. 
This is vital and if you expect that you could use the plight of men in their 40s and 50s in the shipbuilding industry who have not been out of work for 20 to 25 years, skilled tradesmen and naval designers, and force them into the street and force foreclosure of the mortgages on their homes, as is happening in the Hunter region at the moment, it will not be very much longer before there will be a call in this Parliament for a moratorium on home loan repayments. If you believe that is the way to get the economy going you are making a very sad mistake, and you will not succeed in improving labour conditions in this country by introducing legislation of a coercive and snide nature such as that contained in proposed new section  45D  of this Bill. Why do you not be honest? I know that it is difficult for you to be honest. Why do you not try to be honest and say what your intentions are. You have tried to use the shipbuilding industry without any reference to plant renewal or capital investment, which is the major problem of the shipbuilding industry linked with the world wide slump in ship building. They are the major problems in the shipbuilding industry, not labour productivity, but you are using the plight of the shipbuilding industry to try to force a group of people into accepting some new kind of industrial relations contract. 
If you want a new type of industrial relations in this country you should have the dignity and the honesty, like the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  who, only a few minutes ago, at least had the dignity and the honesty, in his agitated way, to say that he wanted a 3-year labour contract, as they have in the United States. If that is what you are about, come clean and put your case to the trade union movement. But you are not doing that because that is only part of what you are about. To try to force a reduction in living standards you are seeking to crush and oppress a section of the community which is unable to defend itself. If you think you are going to force the 5000 jobless in my electorate and in the electorates of Paterson, Hunter and Lyne, thenwives and their children into the streets, you are not going to succeed. You are not going to develop any new kind of industrial relations, conciliation or good will in this country. 
We have a Minister who delights in infantile doggerel and in ridiculing people who are out of work, men of 55 years of age who have not been out of work for 25 years, skilled tradesmen that this country needs in a shipbuilding industry. We need those men for defence purposes. You are throwing them out into the street. Maybe that is your capitalistic way. You think that is your right. You think you have a right to oppress and crush people and you think you are doing something for Australia. You are not doing anything for this country. You are dividing the nation the way you divided it in 1975. If you think back in 1975 when you said to the average trade unionist that he should not withdraw his services - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I point out, not only to the honourable member for Shortland, that recently in this House it has become a practice for honourable members, when making their speeches, to say 'you did this', 'you did that' or 'you are responsible for something else'. An honourable member yesterday made a speech in which, if I remember correctly, the exact phrase used was 'you should put your tail between your legs and crawl out of the House'. Honourable members are supposed to address the Chair and, in strict terminology, that expression could have been classed as being uncomplimentary to the Chair. If honourable members could address the Chair instead of making personal comments to individuals, it would help. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I accept your advice. I used the word 'you' figuratively in reference to the Government. I specified certain remarks that I made to the honourable member for Holt but, as I think you will understand, it is a very easy habit to fall into. I return to the problem of the shipbuilding industry and the purpose of this legislation. As I said, the Minister for Transport a senior Cabinet Minister, has made it quite clear in this little bit of doggerel: 
When I said: No strike if you want work 
They called me a jerk 
And lost their jobs in the hassle . . . 
I said: Their jobs will be fine 
If they stay on the line 
No strike would stop the decline. 
That is not one of the unknown Government back benchers speaking. It is the coming Leader of the National Country Party who made that statement. He made it on national television. I could understand if it was a back bencher; I could understand if it was the honourable member for Holt because he is still back in the 19th century, but this is the 20th century and if this nation is to solve its economic ills and if we are to have some sort of good will and accord in the community, we need conciliation and good will and it does not do anything for those objectives if Government supporters embark on a program of confrontation and denigration of people who are unfortunate enough to be experiencing great personal hardship because they are unemployed. I sometimes think there is still a stupid belief among some of the Government back benchers 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) In respect of individual consumer products, has his Department given any consideration to detemining: 
what percentage of the final consumer prices is attributable to transport costs and 
what is the transport cost component of the final cost. 
Has his Department given any consideration to determining what percentage of input costs transport costs represent. 
3 ) What studies on this subject are currently underway. 
When are these studies expected to be completed, and will he table the results. 
Can he say what studies on this subject have been undertaken overseas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the location of each completed project funded under the National Roads Act 1 974. 
) What is the estimated total cost of each of the projects. 
What projects are currently being funded under this Act. 
What is the estimated date of completion of each of these projects. 
What is the annual cost of maintenance of each of the projects. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the fare per route mile charged by the major domestic airlines for each class of air travel. 
) What is the basis for those charges. 
What is the fare per route mile charged by Qantas for each class of air travel between Australian ports and ports in 
Papua New Guinea, (b) New Zealand and (c) Indonesia. 
What is the basis for those charges. 
What are the reasons for any differences between route mile charges by the major domestic airlines and charges for comparable distances on regional air routes serviced by Qantas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the process of consultation between his Department and the States on the overall aspects of road and rail pricing mentioned on page 59 of his Department's 1975-76 annual report. 
What meetings have taken place between State and Australian Government officials on these matters. 
Where did these meetings take place. 
What is the name, classification and employing organisation of each State and Australian Government official participating in the process of consultation. 
What has been the outcome of this process of consultation. 
What specific issues have been raised by the Department and the States. 
7 ) What does the term ' public service obligations' mean. 
Have any papers been prepared on matters raised during the consultation. 
Will he table in the Parliament the material produced on these matters. If not, why not. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, relates to a statement by the Minister on Tuesday that 'the Government has a deep commitment towards a marketing policy which will provide the Australian consumer with petrol at the lowest possible price'. Having in mind the heavy increases in petrol and oil prices and the consequent inflationary flow-on to all sectors of the transport industry if the Industries Assistance Commission's report on crude oil pricing were adopted I ask: In Cabinet discussions on crude oil pricing, in light of the Minister's statement has he opposed the IAC's recommendation? If not, what attitude has he expressed on the IAC's report in those discussions? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) When will a syllabus for the amateur operators ' novice certificate be available. 
Will he agree to examinations which have been set by Central Office being conducted and, in the case of the nonambiguous multiple choice type, marked by competent persons or officers of authorised educational establishments outside the Department. 
Will he attempt to further streamline the examination procedures, and consider making the present essay type  regulations ' section into a multiple choice type examination. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Are the officers who have the responsibility for the conduct of examinations and preparation and marking of papers of candidates at novice and amateur operators' certificate examinations the same persons who have carried out these tasks for the last5 years. 
) What are the qualifications of these officers. 
Has any officer involved in the examinations section any qualifications in education or educational techniques. If so, what are these qualifications. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did he tell me in answer to Question No. 1486 part (2), that publication of reports by the Commonwealth is not intended and released to other than Commonwealth Authorities is at the discretion of the State agency as indicated in the progress report. 
If so, will he explain what he means by this statement 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the location and description of each completed project funded under the  States Grants  (Urban  Public Transport) Act  1974. 
What is the estimated total cost of each of the projects. 
What projects are currently being funded under this Act. 
What is the estimated date of completion of each of those projects. 
What is the annual cost of maintenance of each of the projects, where applicable. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article published in the  Sun Heraldof  6 February 1977 relating to hepatitis. 
If so, is it a fact that (a) hepatitis can seriously affect a person 's drive, eating habits, disposition and socialising long after recovery from the illness (b) hepatitis effectively limits for a long time the intake of alcohol and (c) because viral hepatitis is caused by a virus it is therefore contagious. 
3 ) Is it also a fact that the following precautions should be followed when dealing with an infected person: (a) eating equipment, knife, fork, spoon, plate and cup should be isolated and scalded after cleansing it separately, (b) clothing should be washed separately and (c) reading material, such as books, magazines and newspapers, should be kept separately. 
Would it be a responsible gesture for people in the same work situation as a newly infected person to be advised immediately so that they can seek protective immunisation if a doctor deems it necessary. 
Is it also a fact that telephones, the interchangeable canteen cup and even typewriter keys can carry the virus. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Does he agree with the statement that unemployment in Australia is a myth? 
-The previous 2 contributions can best be described as apologist speeches. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  said that the Government was concerned about unemployment. I should remind him that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and the Minister Assisting the 
Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said that unemployment in this country is a myth; it does not exist. Surely the honourable member for Braddon ought to take notice of that. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  goes one further and says: 'Yes, there are some unemployed'. But when he was asked earlier today whether he agreed with the Minister Assisting the Treasurer he evaded the question. He sought to denigrate the people who are unemployed rather than to recognise the magnitude of the problem. It is very interesting that the Government uses past figures on the number of recipients of the unemployment benefit to criticise and to discuss the record of the Labor Government. But in regard to the contemporary situation it says that those figures cannot be relied upon. Surely, if the present figures are inaccurate the earlier figures must suffer from the same deficiency. This is another subterfuge by the Government to try to conceal the problem of unemployment rather than to recognise it and to have some compassion and concern for the people who are unemployed. 
Let us consider now the attitude of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to employees and unemployment.  His  attitude is known nationwide. He has told the people of the shipyard industry and the people of the Hunter region -I am pleased that the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0 "Keefe)  and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  are here to listen to and to share in the debate- that if they do not go on strike they will have work but if they go on strike they will have no work. 
-I think, and I believe that most fair-minded Australians would think, that what he recited was a ghoulish limerick. There he was on television seeking to entertain millions of Australians by denigrating people who were out of work. By his own deliberate choice he was putting these people out of work; yet he sought to gloat over them. That in fact is what he was doing: He was gloating over the people he had put out of work. I know that all honourable members opposite support that view. 
Honourable members opposite do support that view by their presence in this chamber. Government supporters support gloating over the people who are now out of work as a result of this Government's deliberate decision and deliberate policy to expand unemployment. The honourable member for Braddon has rapidly left the chamber, having opened this discussion on unemployment. The Government Whip  (Mr Bourchier)  is seeking to interject. I think the Government could do with a better Whip. We would have much more harmony and constructive discussion in the House if we had a change of Whip,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  At this stage I seek your protection from the Government Whip. If he is determined to enter the debate I suggest that he put his name on the list of speakers and enter the debate. He would be very welcome. 
The honourable member for Braddon sought to embroider the situation even more. As we follow what the Minister for Transport has done and said nation-wide and what the honourable member for Braddon has suggested, the following situation emerges: The Minister for Transport has put people out of work; the honourable member for Braddon now says: If those people who are out of work seek some level of assistance to pay off their homes to feed their children and to educate their families, is it not reasonable that they should go out and dig some holes in the road, clean up some parks, or do some other kind of public work? That is a very fine attitude to adopt towards men who have spent 25 years at the top level of our naval design staff, skilled artisans- people who have spent a whole lifetime with a pride in their career! As I said, the honourable member for Braddon now says to them: 'If you are out of work, even though we put you out of work if you do not want to starve you should go out and cut some lawns'. That is what the honourable member for Braddon indicated very clearly. That can be defined in one very small phrase- 'forced labour'. That is what this Government is about. 
Let us look at a few of the case histories involved. I know that honourable members opposite do not want to be frank about this subject. It upsets them to go back to their electorate offices and to face their constituents who are out of work and who have had problems with the Department of Social Security because of the understating of and the staff ceiling applied to that Department and the Commonwealth Employment Service. I know that when they go back to their electorate offices they do not like facing up to these problems. I know also,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that, like you and me, they have constituents who come to them when they need the assistance of their Federal member of Parliament. Let us look at some of the case histories of the individual people concerned, not at the generalities that honourable members opposite want to discuss. I draw to the attention of the chamber the case of a family with 4 children. The constituent concerned wrote to me and said: 'I have been employed for 20 years 5 months and 22 days and now, as a result of this Government 's policies, I am out of work '. 
I am pleased that the honourable member for Evans acknowledges the problem. 
-The matter I wish to bring to the attention of Parliament tonight relates to the continuing saga in the Sydney Press of the activities of people labelled as right-wing extremists in the Liberal Party in the Sydney area. I am looking at a report which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 5 March. In that report the Liberal member for Evans disowned his association with that kind of activity in Sydney area and in the same statement he disowns - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)There is no substance to the point of order. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, again the Liberal Party Whip has been a source of intimidation and disruption. I again seek your protection from him. 
I have pleasure in supporting the amendment to this Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  last evening on behalf of the Opposition. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  in his second reading speech, announced that the Government would continue assistance in 1977 at the same level as was given in 1976. He also went on to admit that the 1976 season had been plagued with falls in exports and lower prices. He said that those difficulties were expected to continue in the coming year. Yet in spite of the Minister having said that, the Government refuses to provide additional assistance to apple and pear growers to help them through what the Minister admits will be a difficult year. 
Nowhere in his second reading speech does the Minister face up to the problem of restructuring the industry. Instead, he blandly states that the industry will have to understand that it cannot receive assistance indefinitely. In effect, he is telling the industry that the Government supports the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation to phase out support to the apple and pear industry. He clearly states that there will be a reduction in the level of assistance for 1978. With assistance to the industry limited to the1976 levels and current estimates of inflation for1977 suggesting a 16 per cent inflation rate, the Government has engineered a16 per cent fall in support in real terms. More accurately, as the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  said earlier, the level of support would need to be raised to $3.58 per case of apples simply to offset the impact of increased costs and inflation since last year. Clearly the $3 suggested in the amendment by the Opposition is moderate and responsible. 
If the Government fails to restructure the industry and goes ahead with the LAC recommendation to dismantle the scheme, the effect on the Tasmanian economy will be devastating. I can do no better in this regard than to quote the words of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  who, like other Tasmanian members, is conspicuous by his absence from this debate. 
-The honourable member for Braddon suddenly surfaces and the honourable member for Denison interrupts while out of his place. But they are the only Tasmanian members in the chamber at present. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)There is no point of order involved. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Has his Department's investigation of the near crash of the Singapore Airlines jumbo jet at Tullamarine Airport on 17 December 1976 been completed; if so, what were the results of the investigation; if not, when will it be completed. 
Will he table in the Parliament the results of the investigation when completed; if not, why not. 
What are the names and classifications of the officers who carried out the investigation. 
Are there any similarities between this incident and that involving a Pan-Am jumbo jet at San Francisco in 1 97 1. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March, 1977: 
1 ) What payments have been made or are required to be made to each of the members of the Aviation Review Committee chaired by  Sir Lenox  Hewitt by way of (a) fees and (b) allowances. 
Which of the payments are (a) taxable income and (b) tax free income in the hands of the recipients. 
What was the nature and cost of each of the items of support services provided to the committee, e.g., travel of committee members and officers associated with the committee. 
On what days and at what places did the committee deliberate. 
From whom did it receive submissions, and with whom did it confer. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
Did any aircraft of the VIP squadron travel to points outside Australia during the period 1 to 9 March 1977. 
If so, what aircraft made these flights. 
From what airports did they depart and to where did they travel. 
What was the time of departure and arrival of each flight. 
What was the purpose of each flight to an from Australia. 
What goods were transported on each aircraft during the flights. 
What was the name and classification of each person carried on each flight. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
What was the cost of each flight made by the VIP squadron outside Australia during the period 1 to 9 March 1977. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. The Minister will recall the welcome increase in beef orders from Japan following his visit there with his colleagues a few weeks ago. However, my question relates to attempts by the Australian National Line to secure ore cargoes to Japan for its vessel, the Australian Prospector, and to current negotiations by Japanese steel interests in regard to iron ore and coal prices. I ask the Minister whether he, in association with the Minister for National Resources, will use his good offices to secure iron ore cargoes for the  Australian Prospector  during price negotiations with the Japanese steel industry? 
-We are debating the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads (Repeal) Bill 1977. Its purpose is to repeal the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads Act 1964, thus abolishing the independent statutory authority known as the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads to enable the establishment of a new and expanded Bureau within the Department of Transport to be known as the Bureau of Transport Economics. That larger Bureau attached to the Department of Transport will comprise the Bureau of Transport Economics originally set up in 1971 and the existing Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. The Opposition believes that the timing for the amalgamation of the functions of the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Bureau of Roads is appropriate. We agree with the concept of a strong multimodal transport advisory body but we believe that such a body should be established as an independent statutory authority along the lines of the Bureau of Roads under its own specific legislation. There are a number of sound reasons for our taking that view, and I shall return to them later in my remarks. Accordingly the Opposition is opposed to the Bill. 
Since the present corrupt, conservative Government came to office we have seen a succession of measures designed to reduce community access to the decision making processes of government and to reduce the public availability of information on the background to government decisions. Because this Bill deals with road funding investigations, evaluations and priorities, it affects the safety of our roads and the lives of motorists. It was only a few months ago that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who introduced this legislation, sponsored a similar Bill designed to abolish the independent statutory Road Safety and Standards Authority and to absorb it into the Minister's centralist empire of the Department of Transport. The pretext used on that occasionthe same pretext is used now- was that that action would save money. Yes, undoubtedly it would save a relatively small amount of money but that would be at the expense of the lives of motorists. This Bill is in a similar vein. 
Let us look for a few minutes at the origin and the reasons for the establishment of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. In his 1963 election speech the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, foreshadowed the establishment of an independent national roads authority. He said that such an authority would 'provide a focal point for the planning and development of a comprehensive system to help in co-ordinating the activities of Commonwealth and State governments in the roads field'. He continued: 
The nation would benefit from a thoroughgoing survey and appraisal of the existing roads system and of foreseeable road requirements. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport at that time,  Mr Freeth,  noted in his second reading speech: 
We have felt it is essential for us to have a body capable of investigating roads and road transport with a view to assisting the Government in reaching its decisions as to the nature of the financial assistance to the States for roads and road transport. 
He went on to say: 
Having decided on these functions we feel that they could best be undertaken by a statutory body, to be called the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, responsible to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
Since its establishment in 1966 the Bureau of Roads has acquitted its tasks well. I know of no criticism of the manner in which it has performed its duties, although the Opposition would have preferred that the tabling of its reports was an automatic process rather than being left to the discretion of the Minister, especially the present Minister. 
I mention that because 2 reports of the Bureau of Roads that have been completed in the last 12 months- one relating to alternative funding strategies for roads in 1976 and the other relating to alternative methods of funding roads under the Government's federalism policy- have not been presented to the Parliament, nor has mention been made of them. Yet in the public discussion on the methods of road funding and the priorities for transport generally they would be very important documents, and documents which would be necessary if an adequate and balanced public discussion were to take place. However, in the past decade the Bureau has earned a high level of credibility for its reports and a wide level of acceptance by all interest groups in the transport scene, from State governments, local government units, and motorists and transport organisations to individual members of the community. Honourable members will recall that in the preparation of its 1975 report the Bureau received in excess of 300 submissions from interested parties. 
If we are to consider the Bill in its proper perspective we must take note of the Government's style of operation. On 9 October 1976 Cabinet took a decision that legislation should not be introduced into the Parliament for the purpose of implementing its objectives where regulation would suffice. The decision was clear and explicit- government by regulation, not by legislation. Why? The reason was that it would enable the Government to surround its activities in greater secrecy and protect them from the glare of closer parliamentary scrutiny than would be the case if separate legislation were enacted. In the Department of Transport that style has been most evident. 
I mentioned earlier the abolition of the Road Safety and Standards Authority in the latter part of last year. Since the change in government we have seen the Bland Committee or Administrative Review Committee set up. Its deliberations and reports were kept secret. I hardly need to remind honourable members of how the Medibank review was conducted and how the reports on that were leaked. Next came the Aviation Industry Review Committee of Inquiry which looked into the cost recovery program. That inquiry was conducted by principals of the industry into the industry, and its deliberations and reports were privy to the Minister and to the aviation industry. The consumers of airline services, the air travellers- after all, they pay for everything- were not represented on the inquiry or allowed to see the report. Public discussion of the industry's problems is inhibited by the refusal of the Minister to table the report. 
Next came the MacNeill Committee of Inquiry into the operations and financial structure of Australian Government transport enterprises- the people's own transport enterprises. Again there were secret hearings and a secret report was presented, to which the Committee and the Minister had access but with which the Parliament and the public are not to be trusted. I must make this point in respect of that Committee of Inquiry: It was a case of competitors with and clients of publicly owned enterprises inquiring into the financial structure and efficiency of those publicly owned enterprises and that information being privy to those competitors and clients but not being available to members of this Parliament. The members of this Parliament, Government or Opposition, are not to be trusted, are not responsible enough to be made aware of the contents of the report of that Committee of Inquiry. 
Running through this Government's operations then is the continuing theme of suppression of information and a return to the closed shop style of government which was so prevalent prior to 1972. Given the Minister's record in government, how could any reasonable person place credence in his assurance that the new amalgamated Bureau of Transport Economics will function in the manner for which the Bureau of Roads has been renowned- with public hearings, public participation and political impartiality? I add to those things the Minister's promise of the ready availability of reports from the new Bureau of Transport Economics. Obviously the answer to that question is that any reasonable examination of the Minister's record and the Government's record will show that nobody can reasonably accept the Minister's assurances. 
I know also that many members of the Parliament have been receiving correspondence from motorists' organisations and local councils as well as local government organisations urging the establishment of the amalgamated Bureau by separate legislation. In a moment I shall read from page 66 of the September 1 976 issue of the  Australian Municipal Journal.  Numerous other articles have been published on this subject, some by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations and some by the respective State organisations. This generally sums up the background of the issue before us. In quoting Prime Minister Menzies, the journal states: 
The principal reasons for setting up the Bureau of Roads were: to have road needs presented to the Commonwealth by the States to provide an ability within the Commonwealth to check the States ' assessment to initiate enquiries about specific classes of roads, for example, freeways to ensure overall priorities in the application of resources to minimise State rivalries to avoid political 'horse trading' prior to the expiration of the normal five year Commonwealth Aid Road Agreements. 
The Association maintains that these reasons are still valid and in the best interests of local government to retain. 
The present position gives the Commonwealth an accurate assessment of roading requirements in its various forms, assesses State and local government capacity to meet part of the cost, and sets out policy options open to the Government. 
What is more it brings an enlightened approach to the general question of roading and apart from recommending the best use of resources is able to exercise control in this area which calls for joint governmental endeavour. 
Amalgamation and integration within the Department of Transport could destroy the main attributes of the Bureau. 
Attributes like independence from departmental and political influence are important. They give the Bureau credibility in the eyes of State and local governments. 
Indeed it is hard to imagine why the Federal Government would want to destroy a body which has so many elements which demonstrate co-operative Federalism at work. 
One only has to recall the new definition of cooperative federalism- coercive federalism. The latest announcement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on 25 February on road funding for 1977-78 makes quite clear this Government's definition of federalism. It is bleed the States of sufficient funds to force them to do what you want them to do'. The Minister has readily in the past indicated that he has been able to get his way with the States when he wishes. That is one of the reasons that in its existing form the Bureau of Roads is to be changed. The Bureau established credibility and acceptance because it was seen to be on the side of the Department, not a captive of the Department's priorities, management services and budget and, importantly, not subject to political horse trading. The Minister claimed in his second reading speech that the existing Bureau of Transport Economics had similar autonomy to the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. This is not so. The Bureau of Roads has had its own financial independence and its own division in the Appropriation Bills. It employs its own staff and has outside members on its board. These are all significant sources of autonomy in terms of task definition and performance. It has had a broad and continuing brief to make policy recommendations to the Government of the day on financial assistance to the States for roads and road transport. In its 1975 report, the Bureau of Roads stated: 
As the Bureaus is small, autonomous and free from the normal departmental function of administration of  legisation,  we are able to work closely with official and unofficial groups within the community. 
Equally we can, in a completely independent manner, express and evaluate the views of governmental, industrial and community organisations. Our experience has confirmed our view that the statutory authority has a very important role in open government. 
On the other hand, the Bureau of Transport Economics has primarly been involved in  ad hoc  project evaluations, whereas the Bureau of Roads has been concerned with road programs and policies, a much broader, continuing and integrating function. If the Minister wished to satisfy the sentiments expressed in the first 5 pages of his speech, the way to do so would have been to extend the role of the Bureau of Roads across all the modes. I do not wish my remarks to be misinterpreted as favouring the performance of one bureau as against the other because I have the highest respect for the existing Bureau of Transport Economics and the professional manner in which it has functioned since its inception. In short, the question at stake in this legislation is open government and public accessibility of information. I reiterate the quote from the 1975 report of the Bureau of Roads, after 1 1 years of practical experience. It stated: 
The Statutory Authority has a very important role in open government. 
That view has been supported widely by State and local government, by motorist organisations and by individuals. The best example I have seen of public participation in the decision-making process was the inquiry conducted by the Bureau of Roads in the Newcastle area about 2 years ago. That inquiry was appointed by the then Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  to his credit. It was an inquiry into the proposed route of the National Highway north of Doyalson to the north of Newcastle in New South Wales. I attended some of those public meetings to see what kind of reception the representatives of the Bureau received. I realised that a firm of consultants was also employed at the time. I sat in on some of those hearings to see what kind of people attended and what points of view were put. In the very early minutes of the meeting that I attended in the Newcastle City Hall it was quite obvious that the people at the meeting had confidence in the representatives of the Bureau and the consultants. It became quite clear that the people from the Bureau were there simply to listen to submissions, to receive submissions and, later, to make a report. They were not there as officers attached to a department considering the project put before the Department. There was a quite different approach. I have had enough experience in local government inquiries and in committees of inquiry by this Parliament to see the great difference in attitudes of the public who were present at that meeting. They were very quickly put at ease by the officers of the Bureau of Roads and they very quickly acknowledged that there was no bias and no partiality on the part of officers of the Bureau and their consultants who were conducting that exercise. I repeat that the view that I mentioned earlier that the statutory authority has a very important role in local government has been supported by State governments, by local government and by motorist organisations. What came out of that inquiry at Newcastle was that the people in the 
Hunter region were able to see, through the local Press, that the Bureau of Roads was operating, whilst responsible to the Minister, as an entity in its own right. The community was able to attach trust and credibility to the Bureau's activities. 
The Minister sought, in his second reading speech, to assure the House that the new Bureau, operating along the guidelines he has set out, would not detract from the methods used by the Bureau of Roads. In a question on notice I sought from the Minister an assurance- I quote from page 92 of  Hansard  of 1 5 February:  . . that the expanded Bureau of Transport Economics will be able to examine and publicly report on current Government policies in respect of transport without prior vetting by the Department of Transpsort; if not, why not. 
The Minister provided me with an answer that runs into about IS lines, but whilst there are a lot of words in the answer - 
It has been a liquid tea again, apparently. 
Is the honourable gentleman claiming credit for that statement. The answer neatly sidesteps the question which was posed and which was quite specific. I sought an assurance that there would be no prior vetting by the Department and the Minister was unable to give me an answer. He gave me an answer which seems to answer the question that was asked, but on close examination it does not answer the question. In short, he gave no assurance that the new Bureau would be able to examine and publicly report on current Government policies in respect of transport without prior vetting by the Department of Transport. As I said, the key words in the assurance sought are 'without prior vetting by the Department'. The pork barrelling exercises of the National Country Party on road funding- I sympathise with those members of the Liberal Party but as they go along with it, I suppose I should not give them any sympathyare renowned in Australia. What the Minister wants to cover up is his retention of the ability to buy country votes with road funds, even, I understand, for roads to Cape Corna. I indicated at the outset that the Opposition recognises the advantage to be gained from an expanded role for the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Bureau of Roads. It recognises that there ought to be a multi-modal approach to assessing the needs and future requirements of transport. Where we differ is in the way in which the amalgamated 
Bureau should be established and the degree of autonomy it should have on the one hand and the level of accessibility that interest groups should have to the Bureau on the other. 
Above all the Bureau in its activities should be placed beyond the political influence of the Minister. That will not be achieved simply by repealing the Bureau of Roads Act of 1964. Despite what the Minister has said in his second reading speech and despite what comments he may make in reply, the fact is that the Bureau will be downgraded to the limited status of the Bureau of Transport Economics rather than the amalgamated body being upgraded to the independent status of the Bureau of Roads, operating under its own legislation. 
Some mention has been made of savings to be made following the amalgamation. I point out that the Bureau of Roads appropriation- that is, division 659 in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) of 1975-76-was $ 1.717m while in 1976-77 it was $ 1.288m. Thus any savings considered in the full light of the Department of Transport budget would be relatively small. The Minister has said that the new Bureau of Transport Economics will be able to move with the times- that will be a change for the National Country Party- rather than be rigidly controlled through legislation. That in itself is a remarkable statement because the inference is that the new Bureau would be hampered and restricted in its functions if it were established under separate legislation. Yet in the next and final paragraph of his speech he went on to pay a tribute to the Bureau of Roads, its staff and members, for their invaluable contribution and particularly to the  Chairman, Mr Harold  Loxton- a glowing tribute to an organisation which has functioned under its own Act, under its own separate legislation throughout the 1 1 years of its existence. One would have thought that if an organisation were to have been rigidly controlled by legislation that would have happened to the Bureau of Roads but obviously it did not happen, because the Minister has paid a glowing tribute to its performance. I leave it to the House to determine which paragraph is sincere. But we note that the Minister made no criticism of the Bureau of Roads or its performance in his second reading speech and I think that speaks for itself. He made no criticism of its performance or of its legislation. 
-I agree with the Minister. We agree on that. I do not want to upset him but we agree on that. The Minister made no criticism whatever of it and one can only assume- the 
Minister has agreed- that the Bureau of Roads functioned adequately and efficiently under separate legislation. I see no reason why a separate amalgamated authority could not function under the same principles. This amalgamation, to the best of my knowledge, has not been discussed by the Australian Transport Advisory Council. We are told a lot by the Minister about how he liaises with the States and about this co-operative federalism, this transformation to coercive federalism. 
The Minister has done a little better than that. In that harmonious relationship he seeks to tell us about that he has with the State Ministers, even the National Country Party Minister in Queensland, no mention to the best of my knowledge has been made of the Government's decision or proposal not to establish separate legislation. The States are vitally affected here. Because of the torrid climate that has existed in the ATAC meetings where we have had State Ministers walking out and other Ministers accusing a Minister of not having had a marriage in the family for many centuries, I suppose that is understandable. But that is not the way to get good government for the people of Australia and that is not what the taxpayers pay for. To place an amalgamated body such as the new BTE under the Minister's wing, nice and comfy, where he can divvy out the goodies for the National Country Party will not improve the relationship with the State Ministers. 
In the debate on this Bill I should like also on behalf of the Opposition to take the opportunity of expressing our congratulations to the staff, the  Chairman  and those associated with the Bureau of Roads for the manner in which they have performed their duties during its period of operation and I think properly also to the outgoing Bureau of Transport Economics for the manner in which the officers of that Bureau have performed their duties. As I said earlier, we do not seek to draw a comparison or any kind of competitive relationship between the 2 bureaus. We believe that the proper way to establish a new bureau would be by separate legislation. The action encompassed in this Bill is a retrograde step. It is another blow against open government and pub- he participation by this Government. It deserves to be rejected by this House. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Did he tell me in answer to Question No. 1 140  (Hansard,  7 December 1976, page 3449) that the total cost associated with his trip to New Zealand from 26 April 1976 to 3 May 1 976 amounted to $3,362. If not, what was the total cost. 
What is the reason for the difference in the amounts shown in his answer and the amount of $ 1 1 ,356 shown in the Estimates of Receipts and Expenditure for 1976-77 of the Department of Administrative Services. 
Was this question first asked as Question 2029 on 17 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) What are the names, ages, classifications and salaries of all officers who have refused transfers to Canberra from the Melbourne offices of his Department and the Bureau of Roads from 1 January 1976 to date. 
Which of those officers have transferred to alternative positions within the Department's Melbourne offices rather than accept transfer to Canberra. 
Was this question first asked as question No. 2043 on 22 February 1977. 
Nr Nixon-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 42 positions in the Central Office of the Department were transferred from Melbourne to Canberra in the 1976 transfer program. 23 officers declined to transfer to Canberra. I believe that it would be an invasion of the privacy of the staff concerned to publish details of their names, ages and classifications. None of the staff of the Bureau of Roads was on the transfer program. 
11. 
The honourable member's question No. 2043 was placed on notice 2 days before the House rose in the last Session of this Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) How many resignations have occurred from the Department of Transport Melbourne offices, including the Bureau of Roads, from I January 1976 to date. 
) What were the reasons given for each resignation. 
) What were the names, classifications, ages and salaries ofthe officers who resigned. 
What action has been taken to fill the resultant vacancies. 
Which vacancies still remain unfilled. 
Was this question first asked as question No. 2044 on 22 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Have the proper studies and comparison of cost recovery program of other transport modes, which are being carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics and to which he referred on 19 November 1976 as being well advanced, been completed. If not, when will they be completed. 
If they have been completed, will he make the results of the studies available to the Parliament in the interests of informed public discussion on the cost structures ofthe various transport modes. If not, why not. 
Was this question first asked as Question No. 2046 on 22 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) What detailed studies have been carried out by his Department into the implications of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission on Crude Oil Pricing for (a) the average motorist, (b) the road transport industry, (c) national and state railway systems, (d) the shipping industry and (e) the aviation industry. 
If studies have been carried out, will he make the results available promptly to the Parliament for the benefit of the Australian community. 
Was this question first asked as Question No. 2047 on 22 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the airline  Merpati  operate passenger freight services to Australia. 
If so, between what airports in Australia and overseas does it operate. 
What type of passenger services does it provide, i.e. charter or scheduled services. 
What is the frequency of its services. 
Who are the proprietors of  Merpati 
What type of aircraft does it operate. 
When did it commence its services to Australia. 
How many passengers has it carried to and from Australia each year since its commencement. 
How much freight has it carried to and from Australia each year since its commencement. 
Was this question first asked as question No 2048 on 22 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Is he able to say what will be the basis of future funding in the next triennium for financial assistance to the States for road construction and maintenance. 
If not, when will he be able to supply this information. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1 977: 
1 ) What are the names and classifications of each officer who comprised the Interdepartmental Committee established to examine alternative methods of funding programs presently financed through Section 96 grants. 
What is the name of the  Chairman  of the Committee and from which Department was he a representative. 
What consultations have taken place between his Department and State officers specifically on matters raised during the course of the Committee's deliberations. 
What consultations have taken place between his Department and State officers on the report ofthe Committee. 
When will he make a statement to the Parliament on the contents of the report. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) What airlines and individuals have sought approval to operate scheduled or charter airline services from the Pilbara region of Western Australia to Bali from 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
On what date did each first seek approval for the services. 
What action has he taken in respect of each application to date. 
What representations has he received from third parties either in support of or in opposition to each of the applications. 
Was this question first asked as question No. 2082 on 23 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) On what public or private transport companies and statutory authorities does the Commonwealth Government have representation. 
What is the name, classification and salary of each representative as at 23 February 1977 and when does the term of appointment of each expire. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each representative as at 1 1 November 1 975. 
Was this question first asked as question No. 2083 on 23 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) What goods, foodstuffs, including oysters, or articles were picked up from, or delivered to, Mount Gambier by VIP flight (a) HS 748 on 1 1 March 1976 and (b) BAC 1-11 on 15 March 1976. 
To where were the items delivered. 
Who authorised the transport of the items. 
To whom did the items belong and from whom were they obtained. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
What progress has been made by the Bureau of Transport Economics in the preparation of freight movement estimates for 1975-76. 
When is it expected the estimates will be available to the Parliament. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) What was the purpose of his visit to Tokyo on 1 7 and 18 January 1977. 
What are the names, classifications and salaries of each member of the party who accompanied him. 
) What are the names of the places visited. 
What official consultations were undertaken. 
What was the cost for each member of the party for (a) travel both between Australia and Japan and within Japan, (b) accommodation and (c) other incidentals. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) What payments have been made or are required to be made to each of the members of the Committee of Inquiry into Australian Government Transport Undertakings chaired by  Mr James  McNeill by way of (a) fees and (b) allowances. 
Which of the payments are (a) taxable income and (b) tax free income in the hands of the recipients. 
What was the (a) nature and (b) cost of each of the items of support services provided to the committee, e.g. travel of committee members and officers associated with the committee. 
On what days and what places did the committee deliberate. 
From whom did it receive submissions, and with whom did it confer. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Did he tell me in answer to question No. 1706  ('Hansard, 9  December 1976, page 3740) that he received the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Four Australian Transport Business Undertakings on 2 December 1 976. 
In the part of the report that deals with matters of commercial significance, what is the nature of the matters that he has stated are not appropriate to make public, e.g. are they matters that relate to restraint of trade or fare schedule agreements. 
Has he now evaluated the report's contents. 
If not, how long does he anticipate he will need. 
5 ) Will he table the report in the Parliament. 
Was this question first asked as question No. 2084 on 23 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 March 1 977: 
Has he instructed his Depanment to examine the implications for the coastal operations, particularly in Queensland, of the Australian Shipping Commission of the judgment of 17 December 1976 of the High Court of Australia in the case of the Minister for Justice for Western Australia at the relation of Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd v. Australian National Airlines Commission and the Commonwealth of Australia. 
If so, what has been the result of the examination. 
) If not, will he cause such an examination to commence forthwith. If not, what are his reasons for not wishing such an examination to be conducted. 
-In the few minutes available to me this evening I want to say something to the Parliament of the ruses and the ploys that have been used by the present Government to try to distract public attention away from the real issues that face the nation. Those real issues are runaway inflation and record unemployment. Despite all the wishing of the Ministers assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  by the Treasurer himself and by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  those problems will not be wished away. I thought that the remark made in the chamber last Wednesday about the wishing-well policy of the Prime Minister in relation to the prices-wages freeze was an excellent way of describing what he was about. The nation faces a very difficult time. In particular, those people who are unemployed, who are unable to get work, who have families to support face a far more difficult time than other persons in the community. At a time like this what is needed more than anything else is a government, an administration and legislators with compassion and understanding for people in difficulty. 
I think that everybody in the nation recognises that irrespective of the government, whether it is a State government or a Federal government, governments have problems in trying to find solutions to the difficulties that beset our nation and people. But all of those people would like to think, 'particularly at the Federal Government level, we had administrators who had some compassion and some concern for the difficulties people find themselves in and for which they have no responsibility whatsoever. The contrast to be drawn is, on the one hand, people looking for compassion, looking for understanding and looking for sympathy and on the other hand a government that is devoid of compassion. There is no need for the Government and Government back benchers including the oncers to be callous in their approach to the needs of the community. 
I mentioned in my opening sentence the ruses and the ploys that have been used by the present Administration in trying to direct attention away from those difficult problems of unemployment and inflation. Last year, we had the first big diversion- the threat from the Indian Ocean. The hordes were, going to row across in their rowing boats and invade our western shores. That exercise went on for some time until it was disputed in the Government ranks as to whether or not that threat existed. But it was a callous exercise in directing attention away from the real problems. 
Then we have the continuing saga that has gone on from the 1880s and 1890s of unionbashing. Down through the decades, whatever ails the nation is the fault of the unions. Despite this, the capitalists and the nation have become wealthier. The wealthy families have done better. The nation has progressed. We have fought in a number of international wars. The unions have developed. But the trade union movement has always been said to be at fault. 
Now we have the latest brainwave. I do not know whether this idea came from the McKinsey stable or whether it came from Treasury advice. It seems to me that the Prime Minister oscillates from the advice given by McKinsey and Co. Inc., the management consultants, on the one hand, to that given by Treasury on the other hand. I would be very interested to know whether this week will be McKinsey week or whether it will be Treasury week. I am sure that the Government back benchers and oncers would like to know. 
The most cruel, inhumane and callous exercise of all is that conducted against those people who are continually unemployed, those people who through no fault of their own do not have any say over the job opportunities that are available to them, who have families to keep and who are persecuted by the Government and its back benchers as being some kind of bludgers. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that if we are to deal with people who cheat, let us look at the tax cheats- the supporters of honourable members on the Government side- who have got away with far more revenue than the minuscule amounts obtained by those people who are less honest than they should be in making claims for assistance in times of difficulty. I ask honourable members opposite to have some sort of compassion and some kind of sensitivity for the people in desperate need today who need a government with compassion and concern, not a government that is based on a callous attitude towards its material possessions and gains in the community. 
-In the seconds remaining might I refute the tirade of hysterical abuse from the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  A Government's role is to resolve problems, not create them. I say to Government supporters that if this is the way they set about managing Australia it is no wonder that Australia has problems. They do not convince or win the support of anybody in that way. 
-The matter of public importance for discussion before the 
House, raised by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  is: 
The growing inadequacy of Brisbane Airport. 
I am grateful to the honourable member for Lilley for the large amount of technical information that he brought to the attention of the House during his contribution. I am not being facetious when I say that. I think that that kind of information needs to be brought up for public discussion, particularly when the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who is responsible for decisions on the airport, is present in the Chamber. The Opposition, although the honourable member for Lilley did not enunciate those numbers or members of the Opposition who recognise the growing inadequacy of Brisbane airport, likewise recognises that problem. The Opposition, when in Government, sought to do something about it. However, I have to say that the honourable member for Lilley, when a Minister of a previous conservative government, did nothing about it. I find is a little difficult to attach sincerity to the matter he has brought before the House this afternoon, given the history of his involvement over the past years and given the fact that the Party, of which he is a supporter and in which he was a Minister, has been in government for 25 of the past 28 years. I do not think that the matter he has brought forward can be treated in any way as a reflection on the 3 years of Labor Government. 
It is a surprising matter to be brought before the House by 2 Government backbenchers. The immediate question that it raises is: Where is the Minister? I accept that the Minister is in the chamber but surely this is a matter that ought to be raised by the Minister or raised in the Party room or a matter on which the Minister himself ought to be speaking and giving some answers. The honourable member for Lilley has given no indication whether the Minister supports the information that he has put to the House. I think that he does not. I will quote some of the honourable member's earlier remarks in support of that. Has the Minister given an undertaking in response to the matters raised by the honourable member for Lilley, the honourable member for Bowman (  Mr Jull),  the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  or the other 15 members who represent Queensland? The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  also now joins the honourable member for Lilley, who has made this very serious subject a political perennial in this Chamber. It is a very serious matter to the people of Queensland, particularly the people of Brisbane. 
I am surprised in a way that the honourable member for Lilley should have been a party to a political exercise such as the one he has initiated in this House this afternoon. The problems of the airport, particularly concerning access to it, are indeed serious. For residents noise problems exist in the vicinity of the airport. They are genuine and serious problems and they need serious treatment. Surely from a Government of which the honourable member for Lilley is a supporter we should have been able to hear something in support of this matter. What I think is happening is that, because there is such large conservative representation in Queensland, that State is being taken for granted in air transport in the same way that it is being taken for granted by this Government in urban public transport. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Did he state at the Aviation Press Club on 19 November 1976 that both the airlines and the travel industry have strongly supported the Government's moves to stamp out discounting and marketing malpractices. 
What breaches of the new regulations have been brought to the notice of his Department, and what action has he taken in respect of each to date. 
Was this question first asked as question No. 2042 on 22 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 7 March 1 977: 
1 ) What progress has been made between State and Federal governments in relation to eligibility to rebate for patients in State administered psychiatric centres. 
) What is the Government's intention in this regard. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. He will recall his decision of about 26 April to order an inquiry into an incident involving 2 airline pilots at a Melbourne hotel and that the inquiry that was to be conducted should be completed in 2 days. I ask: Firstly is he able to give the House any information on the results of that inquiry; and secondly, in the interests of maximising the safety of the air travelling public will he now give further consideration to increasing the alcohol abstention period for airline pilots to 12 hours before departure time? 
-The purpose of the Australian National Railways Amendment Bill 1977 is to amend the Australian National Railways Act 1917 following the transfer of the South Australian non-metropolitan railways and the Tasmanian railway system to the Commonwealth. Honourable members will recall that the transfer was commenced by the Australian Labor Government. Complementary legislation has been enacted in the South Australian Parliament, and I understand that the Tasmanian Government will introduce its complementary legislation early in the Budget session of the Tasmanian Parliament. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. However, there are a number of points on which we will be seeking some clarification during the Committee stage at which time I understand that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will be moving an amendment relating to the disallowance of the by-laws. In the second paragraph of his second reading speech the Minister gave the impression that this Bill is the finalisation of the transfer arrangements of the State railway systems. That is not so, as there are several issues yet to be resolved, particularly with the South Australian Government. I emphasise that this Bill then is another stage in the transfer arrangements and that all issues in abeyance will have to be resolved before a declaration date can be set. 
The Opposition recognises the complexity of the task facing the Australian National Railways Commission, the South Australian Government and the Tasmanian Government in working up a formula that is acceptable to all parties and which at the same time makes provisions for the [&gt;roper interests of all parties involved, particularly the employees of the 3 railway organisations concerned. The task is a formidable one, given that there are 24 unions and associations involved in discussions which cover 26 different awards and about 600 wage classifications. Clearly it is essential that goodwill and cooperation be shown by all concerned. 
Having that in mind, there seems to be a contradiction between the Minister's earnest request in his second reading speech for 'those involved in the discussions to co-operate to the fullest extent to enable the remaining unresolved matters to be finalised' and his statement in the explanatory memorandum on clause 1 1 of the Bill. In referring to clause 1 1 he states: 
The clause has been based on the agreement reached with South Australia in anticipation that a similar agreement will be reached with Tasmania. The Tasmanian legislation will, however, have to be consistent with these provisions. 
It seems that the Minister seeks co-operation on the one hand and, on the other hand, dictates to the Tasmanian Government what it must do. 
The major thrust of the legislation encompasses the conditions and rights of employees of the State railway systems transferring to the Australian National Railways Commission. The replacement of the Public Service Arbitrator by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- a condition requested by the unions- is covered by clauses 10, 14 and 19. Superannuation rights and entitlements of transferring employees are set out in clause 12. It should be noted that on the declared date transferring employees will have a once only option to remain in their respective State schemes or to transfer to the Federal superannuation scheme. Provision is made in clause 12 for the establishment and operation of promotion appeals boards and a disciplinary appeals board. The provision of by-laws to govern those boards will be a matter further mentioned at the Committee stage. Likewise clause 13 which repeals section 46(2) of the principal Act which is related to the retirement age of employees, will be mentioned during the Committee stage. 
The Government has taken the opportunity also in clause 5 of the Bill to amend section 23 of the principal Act by removing the necessity for ministerial approval of contracts in which the Australian National Railways Commission receives in excess of $100,000. That is a condition which seems to have been included inadvertently in a previous amendment to the principal Act. The Opposition has no objection to that clause, nor to clause 4 which removes the necessity for ministerial approval for leases of land in excess of 10 years by the Commission. 
The provision of an adequate and efficient national railways system is vital to our economic performance and has always been a matter of high priority with the Australian Labor Party. While recognising that the present Government, when in opposition, did not oppose the enabling legislation of the then Labor Government which brought about the transfer of the nonmetropolitan South Australian railway system and the Tasmanian railway system to the Commission because the legislation flowed from agreements reached between the States concerned and the Australian Government, the Opposition deplores the attacks that have been made by government spokesmen on the transfer agreements. I am surprised that no honourable members from Tasmania have seen fit to criticise their own Government in that regard. Ours is a vast continent whose population is located mainly on the seaboard fringes. Hence it is imperative that we have a national railway system that can transport our products and population quickly, efficiently and as cheaply as possible. It is a condemnation of our political system that those conditions do not yet exist 77 years after Federation. 
When the present Government came to office it sought first in a snide way to escape from its obligations under the rail transfer agreements by briefing  Mr Aicken  Q.C., now  Mr Justice  Aicken, to study the agreements in order to see whether an escape could be found. When that ploy failed the Minister then appointed  Dr Joy  to investigate the Tasmanian railway system and the AdelaideCrystal Brook standardisation project in an attempt to evade Commonwealth liability. The reports which resulted from those investigations are now available to the public. 
I mention also that on 21 July 1976 the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  told the Department of Transport that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  wanted to hand the railways back to the States. The Minister for Transport during a radio interview on 10 August 1976 said that he had wanted to get out of the railway transfer agreements but that it had been found that the agreements were valid. So now we have a government responsible for part of a national railways system which it would prefer to disband or from which it would prefer to escape liability. Despite all its election promises the Government has succeeded in doing the following: Firstly, closing down the North Australian Railway; secondly, setting a course to reduce substantially the operations of the Tasmanian railway system; thirdly, frozen construction of the Adelaide-Crystal Brook standardisation project; fourthly, slowed the rate of construction of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs rail link by reducing the funds sought by the Commission for construction this year; fifthly, cancelled the second rolling stock program of 800 wagons which would have given a much needed lift to rolling stock manufacturers and the heavy engineering industry as a whole as well as providing much needed rail wagons. 
It is 1 1 months since the financial year 1975-76 ended and we have yet to see the annual report of the Australian National Railways Commission. The Minister stated in his second reading speech that the Tasmanian and South Australian regions of the Commission incurred a loss of about $45m. This comprised a loss of $14. 9m on Tasmanian operations and $30m on South Australian operations. I understand that the Commission in its other activities incurred a loss of $ 10.5m, in all a total loss of $55.4m. It is high time that the Commission's report for 1975-76 was tabled in the Parliament so that its operations could be examined by all members of the Parliament, not just the Minister and his cronies. 
I appreciate that accounting difficulties could delay the amalgamation of the 3 sets of accounts but 1 1 months in my view is ample time to overcome those difficulties. Much public criticism by opponents of and competitors with the railway system has been made of railway losses and for this reason alone the Commission's accounts should be tabled as soon as possible. Much of the criticism is made, I suspect, tongue in cheek. I recall that  Sir Peter  Abeles used to complain bitterly that trans-Australian rail freight rates were undercutting his company's shipping operations to Western Australia despite the fact that the rates charged returned a sizeable surplus to the Commission. When the Commission increased its trans-Australia rail freight rates by 7 per cent last year following the withdrawal of  Sir Peter  Abele's shipping service to Western Australia  Sir Peter  then complained that the rail freight rates were too high, no doubt because his company Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd wished to use those rail freight services. As I said, I suspect much of the criticism of the rail systems and their rates was made tongue in cheek by the competitors and users. 
Although the number of passengers carried on railways has gradually decreased in recent years the railways have become increasingly important for freight. In 1963-64 Australian National Railways carried 338 414 passengers, 2.517 million tons of freight and earned $ 15.2m. Ten years later in 1973-74 it carried 253 962 passengers, 4.020 million tons of freight and earned $37.2m. In 1974-75- the last year for which figures are available- ANR carried 230 695 passengers, which is a substantial decline from the figure of 1963-64. It carried 3.857 million tons of freight and earned $4 1.4m. 
To facilitate a rational public discussion of railway systems and the results of their operations it is essential that we have available sufficient and comparable information. For that reason I would like to compliment the Commission on the detail provided in the statistical information it prepares despite the fact that the latest publication covers 1974-75. Because of the political aspects of rail charges and services it seems that the various State government railways are able to prepare their railways accounts with particular political objectives in mind. I suspect also that first they determine the results they want to show and then they set about creating a means in their accounts of showing that result. I am told it is nigh impossible to ascertain from the State rail authorities the actual cost of transporting one tonne of goods from point A to point B because of the varying methods followed by the State rail systems in apportioning capital, maintenance and operating expenditure. 
The subject becomes more complex when one attempts to differentiate between costs associated with passenger services as distinct from costs associated with freight services. Likewise, rail systems are called on by governments to provide concessional rates particularly in times of natural disasters, whether drought, cyclone or famine. Losses incurred in the provision of these and similar services, which are in effect social services, should be able to be accurately identified so that proper comparisons can be made then of the costs and efficiencies of rail services as compared with other modes of transport. I mentioned the detailed and useful information made available by the Commission. This shows that for the year ended 30 June 1974 operational expenditures and earnings were as follows: On the trans-Australia railway service, a surplus of $2.882m; on the central Australia railway service, a loss of $3.967m; on the north Australia railway service, a loss of $2.538m; and on the Australian Capital Territory railway service, a loss of $0.260m. Taking those losses, less the surplus shown on the trans-Australia service which in fact is overshadowed by the loss on passenger services, and adding to those figures other expenditure as distinct from operational expenditure of $ 10.597m, gives a total loss for the year ended June 1 974 of $ 14.48m. 
Further examination of the heads of expenditure and earnings provided by the Commission enables at least some comparison to be made of the passenger and freight operations. The importance of accurate information on costs of the various transport modes to our manufacturing industry has been highlighted by the call from the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association for an Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into the transport industry and its impact on cost disabilities of Australian manufacturing industry. This has been reinforced in a recently reported statement in Perth by  Mr McKinnon,  the  Chairman  of the IAC. I quote from the  Manufacturers Monthly  of 15 April in which  Mr McKinnon  is reported as saying: 
The true economics of the relative modes of transport are not easy to determine. But until this area is scrutinised fully to estimate the total costs, both private and public, of each mode, it is impossible to say whether or not the community's interest might best be served by subsidising interstate shipping. 
The relevance of shipping there is that often we hear that the loss of general cargo from coastal shipping has gone to rail. I think that it has since gone both to road and to rail transport. But again because of the importance of shipping and because we are an island continent it is important that we look at accurate information, that we make a proper comparison of the 3 different modes of transport to see what advantages can be derived from better co-ordination and from a better and more efficient use of the modes themselves. 
According to the same article the request for the IAC inquiry is now with the Department of Transport for report. Perhaps the Minister for Transport could tell us at a later stage what progress has been made with that request. It is reported in the same article that the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs is opposed to the inquiry proceeding on the basis that union bashing by Government Ministers and supporters negates any advantages that such an inquiry might bring out into the open. I will refer to that a little later. Fortunately at last it seems that public attention is being directed to the importance to our economy and particularly to the manufacturing and export sections of transport costs. I hope that public interest will grow and that we will see increasing attention by governments- possibly in a joint approach- to the costs of the various modes of transport. Certainly the Australian Transport Advisory Council is supposed to discuss things like that. Looking at the history of ATAC and considering the speed with which it moves and with which decisions are made and the acrimony that presently exists at its meetings, I am quite satisfied there ought to be some sort of alternative method of going about such an inquiry and going about a co-ordination of the modes of transport. 
I reiterate now what I have said on a number of previous occasions- that selective union bashing by Government ministers exacerbates the transport industrial situation rather than remedies it. I am satisfied that the Government has a vested political interest in creating industrial disputes in the transport scene so as to present the trade union movement as a scapegoat for its own incompetence and failures. The cost of this in terms of social and economic disruption is borne by all the community, not just the employees involved in strikes. The Government quite clearly is prepared to use the unions, and the transport unions in particular, to hold the rest of the nation to ransom for its own selfish political interests. The economic costs of that action have to be borne by the taxpayers, consumers and industry at large. I think the strongest evidence of that at the moment is the vigorous campaign that is being waged by the aviation industry unions against the Minister for Transport, who is at the table. It is creating a very unpleasant atmosphere in the aviation industry. It also bodes ill for the other transport unions in our nation. I hope that there can be some kind of resolution and conciliation. As I have said also on many occasions I see the role of the Minister for Transport and the Government as being that of conciliator, not of agitator. 
I turn now to the other matter that is especially relevant to railways as well as to all other forms of transport. That matter is the need for energy conservation. There is ample evidence to show that rail transport and shipping are both far more efficient users of energy than other forms of transport, particularly in urban environments. The Government still is considering the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission on crude oil pricing. At no stage, however, has the Minister spoken out on the implications of those recommendations for the transport industries, from either the cost aspect or the energy consumption aspect. I have asked questions of the Minister on the implications of the IAC report but I have been unable to get a worthwhile response. I think it is important that the Minister should make some statement on that. Any future examination of the transport industries must take into account not only the costs and the efficiencies of the various modes of transport but also the energy consumption characteristics of the various modes of transport. It is a big task because of the constitutional problems involved, particularly where some of the transport services are operated by the States, but it is a task that must be tackled. 
Alternative sources of energy for transport must be examined. For example, it seems that no consideration has been given by this Government or any of the other conservative governments that have been in office in this nation for 25 years of the past 28 years to the electrification of the mainline rail system. I think that also was made evident by the Minister's answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  in the chamber last Thursday. It is an issue which I cannot over emphasise. If the Government has not done something about it or if the report has been completed, again I hope that the Minister will bring forward that report as soon as it is completed for the benefit of the Australian community. We must concentrate on this issue much more than has been done in the past. The alternative, particularly the alternative of electrification of mainline rail systems, must be investigated and is an urgent matter. 
I mentioned earlier the increasing public attention being given to rail systems. For decades until 1972 we witnessed a gradual diminution of Government priorities for expenditure on railway systems. I am not saying that is a fault of this Government but it is a fact of history. The results of declining priorities for expenditure on railway construction and maintenance have been sheeted home by the tragic Granville disaster. Out of the horror of that terrible accident some good may come in that governments, particularly Federal and State governments, and the community will upgrade their priorities for expenditure on railway maintenance. Railways throughout Australia represent a huge public investment and must be maintained in first class operating condition to protect rail passengers and to operate efficiently and economically as part of our national transport system. This Bill marks another stage in the development of the nationally operated railway service that the Australian Labor Party is committed to develop for the benefit of all Australians. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
I second the motion for dissent from your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Shortland be not further heard. 
-There are a number of points ranging over clauses 1 to 13 on which I seek some assurance from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I refer firstly to clause 6. Whilst the explanatory memorandum is fairly specific in pointing out that the purpose of this amending clause is to preserve the rights of those users of South Australian rail to any advantages that they were enjoying with freights at the time of the transfer, I draw the attention of the 
House to that part of the South Australian Railways Transfer Agreement which reads: 
The Commission will ensure that, in general, fares, freight rates and other charges in respect of the non-metropolitan railways and services shall be maintained, on and after the commencement date, at levels not less favourable to users than those levels generally applying on the railways of States other than South Australia and where, in general, fares, freight rates and other charges at the commencement date have established a relative advantage to the users, that advantage shall not be diminished. 
It seems fairly clear that that is the intent of the amending clause in the Bill. 
I turn now to clause 1 1 which provides for procedures to be followed in the collection of superannuation contributions whether in respect of State funds or the Federal superannuation scheme. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that in the complementary South Australian legislation, the Superannuation Act Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 sets out that the reimbursement by the Commonwealth to the States shall be equal to: 
the Commonwealth liability in relation to each prescribed contributor; 
the excess amount payable in relation to each prescribed contributor; 
annual amounts agreed upon between the Treasurer of the State and the Treasurer of the Commonwealth as being the reasonable cost of administering this Act in relation to each prescribed contributor and each pension payable under this Act to or in relation to prescribed contributors. 
The point I wish to make is that there do not seem to be complementary conditions in the amending clause now before the Committee, although I understand from inquiries I have made through the Minister that correspondence has been exchanged between the Australian Treasurer and the South Australian Treasurer. Perhaps at the time I discussed this matter with him it had not reached the South Australian Minister for Transport. I simply seek an assurance from the Minister that those conditions will be agreed to and that the information will go ahead in the manner which was intended in the first place. 
Clause 12 of the Bill deals with the repeal of section 53 of the principal Act dealing with the qualifications of and procedures for appointment of the  chairman  of a Promotions Appeal Board and the  chairman  of a Disciplinary Appeal Board. The question that comes to mind is: Would it be possible in some circumstances for the same person to be appointed  chairman  of each of those boards - 
-There is a considerable difference in what the Minister has stated and the conditions as they exist for South Australian Railway employees. Section 54 of the principal Act, which is being repealed, states: 
Every employee shall retire from the Railway Service on attaining the age of sixty-five years, but any employee who so desires may, with the permission of the Commissioner, retire from the Railway Service at any time after he has attained the age of sixty years. 
It is quite clear from looking at that section of the principal Act that the practice of the Commission has been that if the employee wished to retire at age 60 years he must have the permission of the Commissioner. In respect of the South Australian employees, as a right of employment they are entitled to exercise an option to retire at age 60 years. The 2 propositions are in direct contrast. I think it is rather important to the members of the South Australian Railways who are transferring and it is also important to the harmony of the arrangements that the Minister should give an assurance that the employees will not be disadvantaged by losing that entitlement. 
I ask the Minister for Transport why the notice paper shows that the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill is before the Parliament. It does not have the prefix 'Commonwealth'. I must say that I admire the Government's choice of the word 'Commonwealth'- since 'commonwealth' is a very old and well-established socialist word -in preference to the word ' Australian', but I fail to see the reason for the fine distinction. 
-The Opposition welcomes the amendment. As the Minister pointed out, the amendment provides for the insertion in the Bill of the provisions contained in sections 48 and 49 of the Acts Interpretation Act to replace the old section 4 of the principal Act. That section provides that all by-laws should be laid before both Houses of the Parliament within 30 days after the making thereof. Under that provision there is no opportunity for the Parliament to reject or to disallow the by-laws. The amendment provides an opportunity for points of difference to be discussed or raised before the by-laws come into operation. It gives the Parliament an opportunity to examine them and it provides that very important right of the Parliament to disallow them if the Parliament is so disposed. The Opposition welcomes and supports the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill-by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
What are the nature and cost of the works of art for the High Court building on which Messrs Mollison, Cobden and Shannon are advising the Chief Justice  (Hansard,  19 October 1976. page 2005 and 9 December 1976, pages 3702 and 3730). 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1 977: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 1859  (Hansard,  15 February 1977, page 92) on what date was a submission first put to Cabinet for the payment of additional subsidies of (a) $50,000 and (b) $83,333 to Connair Pty Ltd. 
On what date did Cabinet approve each of the payments. 
On what date was each of the cheques for payment drawn. 
On what date was each of the cheques cleared through the Department's bank account. 
Was this question first asked as question No. 2045 on 22 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
1 ) Has he received a proposal for a corridor study into the north-south link between Mildura and Darwin. 
If so, what are the names and employment agencies of the individuals who made representations to him seeking this study, and when were the representations made. 
Has he agreed to undertake this study. 
If so, (a) who will be undertaking the study, (b) when will he make available to the Parliament the terms of reference for the study and (c) when does he expect to receive the report of the study. 
Has his attention been drawn to reports of concern in Alice Springs that the proposal would mean circumventing the Stuart Highway and consequently take tourist trade and business away from the city. 
asked the Minister of Transport, upon notice, on 27 April 1 977: 
What are the names and classifications of Australian Government representatives on statutory transport authorities who are employed by the Australian Government. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
1 ) Did the person launching the Australian National Line vessel  Australian Progress  in Hamburg on 6 April 1977 receive a gift from the Blohm and Voss shipbuilders. 
) If so, what was the nature and value of the gift. 
If the value of the gift is in excess of $100, will it be paid for by the recipient in accordance with the guidelines announced by the Prime Minister in March 1976. 
What is the present location of the gift. 
Was the person launching the ship asked to nominate the nature of the gift. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
What flights for any purpose were undertaken by each aircraft of No. 34 Squadron during the period 1 to 9 March 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
Has a new arbitrator been appointed to replace  Sir John  Spicer in the dispute between MacRobertson Miller Airlines Pty Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines: if not, is he able to say when an arbitrator will be appointed. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Why has he refused to travel by Australia's own international airline on his latest international safari when scheduled flights by Qantas Airways Limited are available for his return trip? Is it because he has decided to leave a day early to enable him to stop overnight in Singapore or is it because travel by international airlines will be subject to less financial scrutiny by the Parliament? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) How many resignations have occurred from the Department of Transport Melbourne offices, including the Bureau of Roads, from I January 1 976 to date. 
2 ) What were the reasons given for each resignation. 
3 ) What were the names, classifications, ages and salaries of the officers who resigned. 
What action has been taken to fill the resultant vacancies. 
Which vacancies still remain unfilled. 
Was this question first asked as question No. 2044 on 22 February 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 29 March 1 977: 
1 ) Has Qantas indicated its desire to withdraw from any (a) regional or (b) international air services since 11 November 1975. 
If so, (a) when was such a desire communicated to him and (b) which regional and /or international air services were nominated. 
3 ) What action has he taken in respect of each case. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
What sum was paid under each category of the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme during (a) December 1976 and (b) January 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
<para pgwide="yes">What sum was paid under each category of the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme during (a) February and (b) March 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
Are foreign airlines permitted to fly passengers between Australian cities in competition with domestic airlines. If so, which airlines are involved, and between which cities are they permitted to transport passengers. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Is he able to say what borrowings have been made abroad by the Broken Hill Pty Company and its subsidiaries during each of the years 1970-71 to 1975-76. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 May 1 977: 
Is he able to say which charter aircraft firms or commuter airline firms are owned wholly or in part by medical practitioners. 
-The purpose of this Bill is to provide Western Australia with an additional $3.2m by amending the National Roads Act and the Roads Grants Act. The Bill also seeks to amend those 2 Acts and the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act and the Transport (Planning and Research) Act so that where the State increases expenditure on road works in the form of payroll tax that expenditure will be eligible for funding under each of the Acts. The Bill provides for additional financial assistance for roads in Western Australia of $3.2m, bringing the total for Western Australia for the year 1976-77 to $58.8m-that being the same amount as it received in 1975-76, which in real terms represents a reduction of 14 per cent. The Bill will bring the total allocation to the States-the nation as a whole-for 1976-77 to $436.7m. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  referred in his second reading speech to consultation with the State Government; yet the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, has become one of the most consistent critics of the Fraser Government's federalism policy and its road funding program for the States. In a letter leaked to the Press in January of this year the Premier warned the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of the danger of confrontation between the Federal and State governments. He said that the policy of the Fraser Government was 'dictated by the views of the centralists' and that it was acting contrary to Liberal principles.  Sir Charles's  criticism is even more significant when it is considered that he was once a champion of the cause of Fraser federalism. It is clear from  Sir Charles's  call earlier this year for the Fraser Government to increase its spending 'by a modest amount' to stimulate the economy that he now realises that the new federalism policy is a fraud. What he failed to grasp at the outset was that while the new federalism policy meant that the Federal Government would hand over more responsibilities to the State governments it also meant that the State governments would receive less financial assistance. 
The new federalism policy is the Fraser Government's means of abrogating its responsibilities for providing community services and forcing the States into introducing State income taxes. The road allocation announcement of 25 February by the Minister for Transport, who I notice is again not present during a debate involving his portfolio, brought this message home well and truly to  Sir Charles  Court and all other Western Australians. The Premier, in another leaked letter to the Prime Minister, described the Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting in February as a serious blow to Federal-State relations and the credibility of the Prime Minister's federalism policy.  Sir Charles  said: 
There appears to be a complete misunderstanding in Canberra of the road situation in Western Australia or I have to assume there is a deliberate attempt at either ministerial or departmental level to reduce our program to unrealistic proportions. 
The February proposals will mean that Western Australia will receive an increase of only $1.9m on the $58.3m that it received in 1976-77, to $60.2m in 1977-78-an increase of only 3.2 per cent. That represents in real terms a dramatic fall, considering that there has been an inflation rate of 14 per cent. 
The total road funds to all States will increase by only 8.8 per cent. The proposals of the Fraser Government have slashed the grant to Western Australia for urban arterial roads by more than 45 per cent. I welcome the Minister for Transport to the chamber. The $475 m for road grants in 1977-78 announced by the Minister was some 68 per cent of the $704.5m recommended by the Bureau of Roads for expenditure in 1977-78.  Sir Charles  Court was reported in the  West Australian  of 28 February as saying: 
An increase of only $1.9m in funds for 1977-78 would severely retard Western Australia's road progress. Many major projects of vital importance to the State's economy and development would have to be deferred or slowed down. This would lead to a significant increase in unemployment, which would have a serious economic effect. 
The Western Australian Minister for Local Government,  Mr Rushton,  foreshadowed an increase in rates by some local authorities as a result of the cut-back in funds. The lack of Federal finance for roads will result in many local authorities simply having to reduce their road programs. In March of this year the Minister for Transport made it perfectly clear how the Fraser federalism policy would work when he told  Sir Charles  that if he wanted more money for the Kwinana Freeway he could go out and raise it himself.  Sir Charles  Court, a former staunch advocate of the Fraser federalism policy, responded by saying: 
It is time that  Mr Nixon  and some of the Western Australian Federal members of Parliament realised that Western Australia has urgent road needs and will continue to fight for more road funds and fight hard. 
The Western Australian Minister for Transport,  Mr Wordsworth,  was equally disappointed with the Minister's refusal to allocate more funds. It is interesting to note that there was not one Western Australian member of Parliament in the chamber when this debate commenced and at last two have shown up. 
-It was enough to flush both of them out. The Western Australian Minister said that the development projects in the State depended on good roads and other means of transport. He went on to say: 
If the Australian economy is to recover these projects will have to get off the ground, backed up by positive road building programs, particularly in the north. 
The Bill before the House seeks to pacify the Western Australian Government. It withdraws a decision made by the Fraser Government to refuse to classify payroll tax paid by State road authorities as road expenditure. If the Fraser Government had decided to go ahead with this measure, the States would have had to raise more finance to meet the matching money requirements imposed as a condition of its road grants. The former Western Australian Minister for Transport,  Mr O'Connor,  forecast that a 100 per cent increase in the State's vehicle licence fees would be required if Western Australia had to meet the matching grant money scheme. But the concessions go only so far in releasing the Australian Government of its responsibility of allocating road funds to the States. It must now be abundantly clear that the Fraser Government's cut-back in funds will mean the emasculation of many of the State's road building projects. The Pilbara and the Kimberleys would be especially hard hit by the Government's stringent control of funds. The inadequacy of Federal funds aggravated the attempts by State authorities to build safe roads and reduce accidents and fatalities. The amount also reveals the Fraser Government's intentions. It wants to return to the inadequacies and deficiences of the Commonwealth Roads Aid Act and reduce Federal funding of road programs. 
The Government's legislation to remove the independence of the Bureau of Roads was further evidence of its designs to downgrade the priority of road planning and road funding in the national accounts. Fraser federalism will destroy the integration and co-ordination of transport expenditure, or integration that would embrace efficient use of public moneys in road planning and road construction. The Australian Labor Government's roads legislation recognised the need for Australian governments to become more involved on a co-operative and consultative basis in the provision of finance to the States for road development as contrasted with the 'take it or leave it' approach of the present Minister for Transport. The legislation represented a major step forward from the Liberal-National Country Parties' Commonwealth Roads Act under which Federal governments were able to abdicate all responsibility for national road planning. With road maintenance and construction authorities as major employers, the Government, through a cut back in road funds, can continue its policy of deliberately expanding unemployment and lowering community living standards. The Government's reduction in road grants is just the beginning of its massive attack on expenditure on other government commitments that will culminate in the August Budget. 
I turn now to clause 12 of the Bill. This is concerned with payroll tax. Clause 12 seeks to amend the National Roads Act 1974, the Roads Grants Act 1974, the Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974 and the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969 retrospectively by providing that where a State or State authority incurs expenditure in the form of payroll tax in connection with road works, such expenditure shall be eligible expenditure by the State for the purposes of those Acts. The need for this amendment arose from a decision by the Government to withdraw its earlier advice to the States that it would not recognise payroll tax paid by the State road authorities as expenditure on roads. 
It appears that some uncertainty had arisen in the Government's view that payroll tax payments were eligible State expenditure for the purposes of road legislation. After receiving legal advice on the matter, the Commonwealth informed the States that, in terms of existing roads legislation, payment of State payroll tax which had been levied since 1971 was not eligible State expenditure for the purposes of the legislation. Strong objection to this decision was taken by the State Premiers and Transport Ministers. It was pointed out that when payroll tax was first introduced in 1941 it was a federal tax and as such every road authority had to pay this tax to the Commonwealth. It was then accepted by the Commonwealth as expenditure qualifying for matching purposes and nothing had occurred since then to change that principle. 
The Minister will be aware that the subject of payroll tax had been canvassed extensively at recent meetings of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. He will be aware also that at those meetings the State Ministers, in putting a case for the inclusion of payroll tax expenditure, requested that operating and overloading policing costs should similarly be treated as  bona fide  payments by the States for matching requirements. It seems, however, that a decision on these payments has not been made by the Government. As a result of the State representations the Government subsequently reversed its earlier decision and clause 12 of the Bill ensures that past and future payments of payroll tax by road authorities were and shall be classified as eligible expenditure by the States for the purposes of road funding legislation. It means that there will be no change in the States' practice of including payroll tax. 
The $3.2m appropriated to Western Australia by this Bill is apportioned as follows: $1.2m to construction of national highways; $0.1 9m to construction and maintenance of export and major commercial roads; $0.4 lm to construction of rural arterial roads and development roads; $ 1.23m to construction and maintenance of rural and local roads; and $0.17m to construction of urban local roads. As I said earlier, this brings the total allocation to Western Australia for the current year to $58.8m. I have already mentioned that the total road funds to be made available to Western Australia in 1977-78 will be $60.2m and the difficulties this will create for road construction authorities in Western Australia. 
The Minister, in Opposition, was most critical of the relations that his predecessor, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  had with the States. However, with the Labor Government the States had ample notice of funds they would receive and accordingly were able to plan their road programs. For over 12 months now the Western Australian Government has without success sought clarification on how future road programs would be funded. All the Minister has given is an undertaking that $60.2m will be made available in 1977-78. What his Government refuses to recognise is that long lead times are involved in road planning, construction and funding. It is essential, therefore, that Western Australia has as early notice as possible of future road funding. It requires information on how much money will be available, from what sources and under what conditions. Here the Minister has failed completely. 
Several Australian Transport Advisory Council meetings have been held to discuss future road funding but all have broken up in disarray because of the dictatorial attitudes of the present Minister. The Minister's announcement of 25 February that $60.2m for Western Australia for next year was released in Canberra unbeknown to the meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council that was taking place in Hobart at the very same time. It is a contemptuous way in which to treat sovereign States, especially Western Australia, and it is an irresponsible way to conduct the affairs of this nation. It is another example of the same intimidatory and inflammatory tactics of the Minister who recently put all domestic airlines on the ground for a week. 
This leads me to note what earlier had been the extreme paucity of speakers from Western Australia in this debate. The Bill is important for Western Australia. The amount of money involved in the legislation has commanded a great deal of attention at several levels of government in Western Australia- from local government, from the Premier and from his Ministers. I noticed last night, when the Bill was originally listed to be debated, that there was not even a  speaker  listed to speak from Western Australia. I notice from today's new speaking list that one member from Western Australia is listed to speak. This highlights the open hostility that has arisen between the Premier of Western Australia and the Fraser Government over its coercive federalism policy and its inadequate funding for Western Australian road programs. 
At this stage it is appropriate to recall the warning of  Sir Charles  Court since some more Western Australian members have come into the chamber. He said: 
It is time that  Mr Nixon  and some of the Western Australian Federal members of Parliament realised that Western Australia has urgent road needs and will continue to fight for more road funds and fight hard. 
The Minister did not bother to enter the debate until I drew his attention to the fact that the debate was on. Nor was one member from Western Australia was present. 
I am sorry for the Minister but he should have been here. As I said, not one member from Western Australia was listed to speak yesterday. Today one member out of nine is listed to speak. I notice that now a few more members from Western Australia have come into the chamber. They are getting a little upset. We saw further evidence of the dispute between Western Australia and this Government last Saturday when, as a result of the efforts of  Sir Charles  Court, the Prime Minister was denied his most desperate need- an extra 6 months before the next Senate election must be held. 
The Minister has refused to give any indication to Western Australia of how its road funds will fare under this Government's policy of enforced federalism. This policy of enforced federalism will be the rock upon which this Government will perish as did its New South Wales counterpart last year. The Opposition welcomes the additional $3.2m which is to be appropriated to Western Australia for road funding in the current year. It does not oppose the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 April 1 977: 
1 ) What has been the cost of providing Commonwealth cars in Sydney to personnel associated with the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation to date. 
Who are entitled to use the cars. 
3 ) Who authorises the use of the cars. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
1 ) Will he outline the circumstances in which a Qantas aircraft had to take evasive action to avoid a collision with an Air France aircraft near Manila on 4 February 1 977. 
Did the captain of the Qantas aircraft obtain the name of the officer in control at Manila airport at the time of the incident. 
Were there any defects in aircraft control at Manila airport that contributed to the incident. 
What action has been taken to ensure that a repetition of the incident will not occur. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
1 ) Has he had his attention drawn to an incident involving an aircraft operated by Skyway Airlines which was reported in the  Sun Herald of  24 April 1 977. 
If so, what information can he provide on the circumstances of the incident. 
What action has been taken by his Department in respect of the incident. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade. Is the demand for oils and motor spirit by the transport industry in Australia elastic or inelastic? If the price of crude bil were to increase by 50 per cent, by what percentage would the demand for this energy form decrease? If the demand is inelastic, what steps does the Government propose to take to alleviate the impact of the increase on users of this energy form particularly in the field of transport, for whom there is no alternative form of energy? 
-The Bill before the House-Supply Bill (No. 1) 1977-78- is an important one. Its purpose is to provide interim finance appropriations for the service of the Government for the period from 1 July 1977 to 30 November 1977, during which period the 1977-78 Budget and the accompanying legislation will be introduced. It is appropriate at this stage to recall the traumas to which this nation was subjected by the present Government, then in Opposition, each time a Supply Bill or Budget was introduced by the 2 previous Labor administrations. We need to recall how the nation was forced to an unnecessary election in April 1974 by the unprecedented deferral of the passage of the Supply Bills at that time by the conservative majority in the Senate. The new Labor Government was subjected to further unprecedented obstruction by the conservative majority in the Senate, which culminated in the deferral of the passage of the 1975-76 Budget by the Senate and the Governor-General's appointment of the first Fraser Government. 
That Government and its successor, the present Government, came to office on a campaign founded on corruption, conspiracy and deceit, the story of which is gradually unfolding as the months pass. Most recently we have seen the role of  Mr Wiley  Fancher, the National Country Party's stooge in that campaign, being gradually revealed and we have heard about his unpaid telephone bills. This man, who claimed direct contact with the present Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  during the term of office of the first Fraser Government, has now been disowned by his former principals. He is the man whom the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  described in this place last week as a screwball. To his credit the 
Minister, who is now at the table, again acknowledges that description- and I agree with him. 
However, Australians are yet to be told of the activities and relationship of the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  during 1975 with the elusive  Mr Khemlani  and his now bankrupt, discredited and deregistered legal adviser,  Mr John  Licardy. Eventually the Treasurer's dealings with  Mr Licardy  's office and staff, the telephone calls between them, and the letters dictated by telephone from the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's office to  Mr Licardy  's staff for submission to the Senate will be revealed. Sooner or later the story of the whole sordid business of money payments and dealings and the orchestration of  Mr Khemlani  's appearances must be told. It certainly will be only a matter of time before the rats desert the sinking ship and the truth comes out. 
The economic standstill and malaise brought about by the conservatives in their desperate grab for power in October-November 1975 have yet to be overcome. At a time when this nation is suffering from record unemployment, an entrenched high level of inflation and a record deficit, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has flitted overseas to escape the problems at home, being more concerned about the quality of his sleeping accommodation on an international airliner than about the awesome difficulties being faced by the 350 000 Australians who are unable to get work and who are trying to provide for their families. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who is the shadow Treasurer, has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of this Bill, which reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House, noting the failure of the Government's economic strategy, condemns its rigid resistance to feasible and constructive alternatives such as cutting indirect taxes and initiating selective stimulatory spending'. 
I support that amendment. The Treasurer has criticised the result of the 1975-76 Hayden Budget, which he described, upon its presentation, as an economic disaster but which from 
II November 1975 he saw fit to administer as the most appropriate financial document for the remainder of that financial year. He has compared the deficit of that Budget with the record deficit as at January 1977. The dishonesty of his Government is illustrated by the fact that he and his colleagues have sought to conceal the fact that the 1975-76 and 1976-77 deficits are not comaparable. They are not comparable because, on 26 June 1976, $250m was paid to the States for health services to be rendered in 1976-77 and clearly belonged to the 1976-77 national accounts. In the current year $200m was raised in loan funds on the open market by Telecom Australia, which was a departure from the previously established financial practice, in order to keep that amount out of the national accounts for the current year. Those 2 items constitute a difference of $700m in the comparison between 1975-77 and 1976-77. 
Medibank payments were forced back into the private health funds, which again changed the impact on the national accounts. Again, part of the purpose of the exercise was to conceal the true impact on the community and to reduce the amount to be shown in the national accounts. In other words, the books have been juggled in an attempt to make this Government's financial record look better than that of 1975-76. If these matters that I have mentioned and other matters, such as the $36.7m that the Australian National Line has been forced to refinance overseas for the purchase of 2 vessels from Europe, were to come into the national accounts for the current year the deficit this year would be much worse than the true deficit and the deficit appropriate to operations in 1975-76. 
Let us look back a little at the performance of this Government as it has lurched from brainwave to brainwave since November 1975. During the debate on the 1975-76 Budget we were told that overseas borrowings would be a disaster and that they would mean the ruination of our economy. With the change of government in 1976 the present Government borrowed more that $ 1 billion abroad. It would have borrowed another $1 billion and not devalued in November 1 976 but for its hang-up over overseas borrowings and the myth it had propogated in 1975. As I have said, the present Government promoted the 1975-76 Hayden Budget as being an economic disaster but found it to be the most suitable financial course to follow. 
In 1976 came the Lynch Budget. We were told that it would be the answer to everything, that all financial problems would be solved and that this nation would return to the land of milk and honey. At least that is what the Government thought. Unfortunately many of our business people, who ought to know better, thought the same thing. But that Budget and that brainwave lasted only a matter of a few weeks because overnight, on 28 November 1976, came devaluation. We then set sail on a new course. It was said that that new course would be the salvation of our economic ills, and the Lynch Budget was thrown overboard. 
Along with devaluation came the enforced federalism proposals. Federalism, as we all know, was promoted by the Liberal-National Country Parties when in Opposition, even since they have been in Government as something that has the support of the States. The fact is that the States were hoodwinked at the Premiers Conference at the beginning of 1 976. Only now are they starting to realise the load that has been placed on their shoulders. It was after a week of bickering and very bad Press for the Government earlier this year when the Premiers and the Prime Minister met to discuss this new policy of enforced federalism and enforced financial responsibility for the States that the new brainwave was hatched- a wage-price freeze. It was said that this now would be the answer, that surely after all the problems this would be the ultimate solution. We were told that if only we could have a wage-price freeze and a consensus everything would come right by itself. But no sooner had that brainwave been dreamed up than it started to dissipate. As has properly become known now, the wage-price freeze developed into a wage-price fiasco and the onslaught of pent up price increases is now only starting to be felt in the community as each week several hundred items of household supplies rise in price, some rising substantially. 
In describing the wage-price fiasco, I must recall the naivity of the Prime Minister in this House on the second day after the announcement of the wage-price freeze. When he was questioned as to how he would ensure that all price makers and sellers would follow the price reeze, he made that very simple statement that given good will and intention on the part of those involved, surely the administrative machinery would find a way. When questioned further in this chamber as to what would happen at the end of 3 months, how would these pent up price increases be spread across the economy and what would be the result, he again said that given goodwill and intentions surely the administrative machinery would find a way. There is the essence of his naivity in economic affairs; he just does not know what it is all about. It is an illustration of the born to rule syndrome of the ultra conservatives of this country; the belief that they alone are born to rule and that if they make a decision it is up to the Public Service to sort out the problems. 
I want to turn for a few moments to the impact of this Government's management on the Department of Transport, the Department's record of bumbling incompetence and the heavyhandedness of the Minister for Transport  (Mr 
Nixon). We all have seen the deterioration in the quality of service provided by Government departments to the community and to industry as a result of the staff ceilings that have been implemented by this Government. We all have seen the claims made by the Prime Minister about how many public servants he has been able to dispense with. But nothing has been said by the Government about the disastrous impact this has had upon the quality of service provided to the community. 
I would like to deal specifically with the Department of Transport. A few months ago I asked, by way of a question on notice, how many members of the Public Service were employed by the Department of Transport in Melbourne and how many had resigned in the previous 12 to 14 months. I received an answer in writing- it is recorded in  Hansard-  indicating that the number was 1650 and that calculations showed that 10 per cent of those officers had resigned from the Service in the previous 12 to 14 months. Such a massive outflow of most experienced personnel in key safety areas of a major department such as the Department of Transport shows a disastrous record of mismanagement. I shall come to the effect of that position a little later. 
Only last week I had a further letter from the Minister for Transport advising me that the answer he gave me some weeks ago was incorrect, that the Department of Transport was a dynamic department and that its numbers fluctuated from day to day. He said that the answer he gave me in respect of 1650 staff being employed in the Department of Transport in Melbourne was incorrect, that in fact there had been 1980 staff at the end of June 1976. But my question was not asked at the end of June 1976; it was asked earlier this year. What that letter from the Minister reveals- it has since been incorporated into  Hansard  by the Minister- is that the Department itself, never mind the Minister, did not know how many officers it had employed in Melbourne. It is not a bad kind of mistake to make- it had 330 more officers in Melbourne than it told the Parliament it had. Surely it must really be a dynamic department when it can multiply like that. But the result of the decline in the numbers in the Department of Transport has been a deterioration in the service offered to the industry. This has been revealed in 2 ways. Firstly, let me instance the fact that air navigational aids were not serviced for quite a period several weeks ago because officers of the Department in Melbourne could not receive travelling expense allowances to go and service them or check whether they were operating. The procedure being followed was to wait until a navigational aid went out of service and for that defect to be reported before ultimately on officer was sent to repair the unit. 
I am not the only person raising this matter. I want to draw the attention of the Parliament to the campaign being conducted by the aviation industry union. These are not rabid militant left wing unions; they are the conservative unions in our society whose members are, in the main, the better paid members of the workforce. These unions are waging a very serious campaign against this Government. They are asking the Government only to adopt its own 1975 election policy promises. They are seriously concerned about the safety standards being followed by the Department. This is a very serious matter. I have raised in the House before the matter of safety standards as they relate to air travellers, and I am loathe to do so again. When I raised it in the Parliament some weeks ago the Minister saw fit not to give me a response. There is something wrong when the Minister cannot see fit to respond to the wide campaign being waged by the unions because the air travelling public needs to be reassured that safety standards are being maintained or that changes are being made to the standards themselves. 
This leads me to the event that should not have happened- the air traffic controllers strike. We are told by honourable members opposite that if secret ballots were held strikes could not occur. We are told that that is all we need to have. I am satisfied that the air traffic controllers strike occurred as a result of intimidation and abuse of the membership and the officers of the union by supporters of the Government. The Government wished to create a climate that it thought would be favourable to the introduction of the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  smiles at my remark. I made that remark in all seriousness. I had a long discussion with some members of the executive of the air traffic controllers union a few days prior to the strike and a few days prior to the ballot being taken. Even the most mild mannered conservative member of that association felt affronted by some of the things that were being said about them in this place and outside it by supporters of the Government. Members of the air traffic controllers union,' a union that is not affiliated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions or the Australian Labor Party, voted by way of secret ballot against the recommendations of their own executive to go on strike. Only a small majority of members decided to go on strike, and I am quite satisfied that the members who represented that small majority who decided to strike were influenced and aggravated by the abuse that had been dealt out to them in the past by supporters of this Government. As a result of the strike massive losses were incurred by the industry. Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia, each lost about $5m, and Qantas Airways Ltd lost about $10m. The tremendous dislocation and inconvenience caused to travellers from overseas within Australia as well as to the Australian community is something that should not have occurred and the responsibility for it lies at the feet of this Government. It was an exercise in industrial heroics and industrial irresponsibility by this Government. 
The next matter to which I refer is in the estimates for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation found in Supply Bill (No. 1 ) under the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. We see in that Bill an additional amount of $3.6m. That brings the total for that Organisation up from $7.8m which was the amount in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) included in the Budget documents last year. If one makes a comparison between the projected figures and the total figures for this year one finds an almost 20 per cent increase in expenditure over the year 1975-76. I know that honourable members opposite- these conservatives- are beleaguered by the belief that there are communists and subversives under every bed and behind every toilet door. In this case I instance what I see as an irresponsible waste of taxpayers' money in my electorate. I do not know the parties involved but I do know the facts which I am going to relate. On 27 February in my electorate a dance was conducted at the Charlestown community hall by a group called the Young Socialists. I do not know who they are and who they comprise. I am not interested in knowing. That hall belongs to the Lake Macquarie Municipal Council and is operated on a rental basis for that Council by an estate agent. That estate agent's staff was instructed by a member of ASIO to report to ASIO on whoever made bookings for the hall and when the bookings were made. 
Subsequent to that dance the mother of a girl who went to that dance contacted my office and complained that her daughter had been given a Young Socialist membership ticket. When I made inquiries from the rental agent and from the police station I found that on the Friday prior to that first dance being held an officer of ASIO stationed in Newcastle had been sent to the letting agent to find out who had rented the hall, the address of whoever rented the hall and what that person was doing. If that is all the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has to do in this nation and if that is why we provided $7.8m this financial year, then it is about time that ASIO members went back to school. It was a young peoples dance. If we are going to indulge in schoolboy exercises like this, it seems to me that priorities in matters of grave national security in this nation are very low. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
1 ) For how many days and in what ports has the  Darwin Trader  been delayed due to industrial disputes since entering the service. 
What was the prime cause of each industrial dispute and which unions were directly involved on each occasion. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
1 ) What is the basis of freight charges made to Broken Hill Pty Ltd for the shipment of manganese from Groote Eylandt. 
What are the tonnage rates charges to Broken Hill Pty Ltd. 
Is the carriage of manganese a profitable operation for the Australian Shipping Commission; if not, what is the extent of the loss per tonne incurred by the Commission. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
Recalling that the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  agreed in December 1 974 to an extension of the deployment to the Royal Malaysian Air Force base, Butterworth, of two Mirage squadrons of the RAAF, and that a further review would take place by the end of 1976, has a review occurred; if so, what were its conclusions. 
Have there been subsequent reviews; if so, what were their conclusions. 
Was one purpose of the deployment to perform a training role with the Malaysian and Singapore air forces. 
If so, is this role still being performed now that both air forces have put into service modern tactical fighters. 
Since the Malaysian Government is now using Butterworth as a base for operations against dissident forces in the Malaysian-Thai border area, does he see any risk of Australia becoming involved in an internal Malaysian security situation. 
Does the company of Australian infantry stationed at Butterworth conduct any reconnaissance activities outside the perimeter of the base. 
Is the Australian infantry company under any orders to return or not to return incoming fire such as rocket or mortar attacks. 
Is he satisfied with the arrangements made by the Malaysian armed forces for the physical security of the base against incursions or attack by dissidents. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 May 1 977: 
1 ) From which addresses is the Department of Transport presently operating in Melbourne. 
What section or division of the Department is operating at each address. 
What is the cost annually of each of the premises occupied by the Department in Melbourne. 
What is the total annual cost of all premises presently occupied by the Department in Melbourne. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
1 ) Is his Department negotiating for the lease of office space in Nauru House, Melbourne; if so, what space is being sought, and for what purposes. 
Which sections or divisions of his Department could be housed in the space available at Nauru House. 
-The States Grants (Roads Interim Assistance) Bill 1977 has been presented by the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  on behalf of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who is absent overseas. The Bill in form is a short one and the Opposition does not oppose it. It is, however, a significant Bill for a number of reasons. Firstly, the haste with which it has been presented and is now being debated indicates the contempt that this Government has developed for the parliamentary process. Whilst I appreciate the courtesy extended to the Opposition by the Minister for Productivity in making available a draft copy of the Bill last Monday evening and the advice given to me by the Minister for Transport last Friday afternoon that the Bill would be introduced, the point is that the subject of how to fund the next road triennium was under consideration when this Government seized power 1 8 months ago. 
The Bill was introduced yesterday. Only a brief time has been given to discuss it- a matter of hours before the Parliament rises for the winter recess. There is no valid reason for the Government's long delay in presenting the Bill and for allowing such little time for its consideration. Secondly, the Bill, because it provides only temporary financial arrangements for road funding, is clear evidence of this Government's failure to develop and to maintain a sound, responsible and conciliatory relationship with the State governments and the respective State Ministers in the full area of federal funding of transport initiatives. Thirdly, and most importantly, it is obvious from this Bill and the telex advice sent to the States in the last few days, setting out the principles to be followed in the major road funding legislation to be introduced in the Budget session, that the progressive concept of an integrated national transport budget has been abandoned by this Government. The Bill before us then is an interim funding measure pending the introduction of the principal legislation. 
Honourable members will recall the Minister's announcement of 25 February this year that $475m would be made available for 1977-78 to the States over the range of categories of road construction and maintenance, 1977-78 being the first year of the next triennium. The States are unable to fund the first quarter of next year's programs from their own funds, hence the $1 18.5m being provided in this Bill will meet that need. The amount of $ 1 1 8.5m is one-quarter of the $475m announced by the Minister and is apportioned to the States as follows: New South Wales, $38. 45m; Victoria, $24. 725m; Queensland, $25m; South Australia, $ 10.1m; Western Australia, $ 15.05m; and Tasmania, $5.425m. In each case the amount provided to each State represents exactly one-quarter of the full allocation for the year as has been announced by the Minister. 
The Minister for Productivity, who is at the table, in his second reading speech, stated that extensive discussions had been held with the States on future road funding. As I have already mentioned, those talks have not been conciliatory or in fact very fruitful. From the view of the States, the Minister has taken his own decision, irrespective of the cases put by the States. I ask honourable members to look back at the record of those discussions. Discussions were already in progress on the next triennium and an integrated transport budget when this Government came to office 18 months ago. However, 13 months later- that is, in December 1976- a special meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council was held to discuss funding for the next triennium. It broke up into a name-calling shambles without decisions being made. A Commonwealth and States officers committee had already been established to develop arrangements for that integrated transport budget, yet under this Government it has not achieved anything worthwhile. A second Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting was held in Hobart on 25 February this year to resume discussions on future road funding. Whilst it was meeting, the Minister released in Canberra, without the knowledge of the States a statement setting out the $475m that would be made available. The States have a reasonable claim when they say that the ATAC meeting in Hobart was an insult to the States and that the Minister's decision was a unilateral one, without their views and arguments having been considered. A week later, a third ATAC meeting was held to enable the States to put a case for reconsideration of their claims and the $475m announced by the Minister. This meeting also broke up in disarray amid dissention and, again, name-calling. This then is the quality of the so-called consultation and discussion that has taken place at the last 3 Australian Transport Advisory Council meetings that were the lead up to this legislation and the proposed legislation in the Budget session. Unfortunately, it is evident also from the arranged questions to the Minister in this chamber and his answers- I emphasise that they were arranged questions and prepared answersthat the Minister delights in denigrating and intimidating State Ministers. He has said at the table that he is proud of it.  His  is hardly a record of co-operative federalism, of harmony and consultation between State governments and this Government, which is what is so essential to ensure that priority transport needs are met and that the taxpayer gets value for his dollars- the dollars that governments spend. 
However, the acrimony that has developed in this Government's financial relations with the States goes to the core of the gigantic problem it has created by trying to force increased financial responsibility onto the States through its policy of coercive federalism. Because of the magnitude of the moneys expended on transport by all governments and the major share that road expenditure forms of that expenditure, it is fundamental to this Government's federalism objectives that the States be forced to accept a greater share of responsibility for road funding. That is what the ATAC arguments have all been about. By tightening the tap on State road grants, the Government hopes to force the States into the position where they will have to reintroduce a State income tax. 
Because this legislation is interim legislation, it is to be expected that there be broad powers for the Minister to ensure that funds to be made available during the period July to September 1977 will be utilised in the manner proposed to be set out in the principal legislation later this year. Again, as the Minister stated in his second reading speech, the Bill contains some general provisions which have the effect of allowing, by the exercise of ministerial discretion, the proposed arrangements to operate virtually as if the legislation to be introduced in the Budget session had in fact been passed. The Opposition cannot comment on the principles of that new legislation until it is presented to this Parliament and can be examined. But the Opposition will be vigilant to see that the Minister's discretionary powers being provided in this Bill are not used for the pork-barrelling exercises for which the National Country Party is so renowned. This Bill, then, is a stop-gap measure made necessary by the Government's own tardiness and its deliberate obstinacy and argumentativeness. 
I turn now to the broader aspects of road expenditure and the importance of a national approach to priorities in transport expenditure. Because of the manner in which our relatively small population is dispersed across our vast continent, it is vital to our standard of living and our export and import industries- primary, secondary and tertiary- that the massive public investment in transport modes be utilised efficiently so as to give value for money and to ensure adequate transport services. This places a much greater financial burden per capita on Australians than, for example, people in the United States and the United Kingdom. In Australia there are about 9 times as many miles of road per head of population as in the United Kingdom and 3 times as many as in the United States. In Australia there are about 2V4 times as many miles of railway tracks per head of population as in the United Kingdom and about twice as many as in the United States. The impact of this is highlighted when we recall that the population of the United States is about 15 times that of Australia; hence the importance of ensuring that transport investment and expenditure is used in a rational, responsible and efficient manner. 
More recently, the need to ensure energy conservation further emphasised the need to have a national approach to transport- an approach that should and could be developed in a cooperative and consultative way with the States, given goodwill on the part of this Government. Transport services are responsible for approximately 27 per cent of our total energy consumption. Of that 27 per cent, a major share, approximately 56 per cent, is used by various forms of road transport, be it trucks or private motor vehicles. 
The Australian Labor Government recognised the importance of an integrated transport budget and the establishment of co-operative planning procedures. It initiated work on the preparation of an integrated transport budget aimed at providing, amongst other things, a reference framework for resource allocation within the transport sector and to integrate federal financial assistance for roads and urban public transport. The 
States were attracted to these responsible initiatives and, but for the change in government, I am confident that the legislation for an integrated transport budget would have now been operative. Instead, we have before us a piecemeal form of legislation which will ensure a continuance of the  ad hoc  funding of roads which created the shameful state of our roads systems by 1972, after 23 years of successive conservative administrations. 
It is enough to upset somebody like you. Under those conservative administrations, many vital decisions on transport expenditure, especially on roads, were made on the basis of political opportunism instead of on economic rationality and safety. How else could Australia's major national highway, the Hume Highway, have been allowed to deteriorate into a goat track with a consequent heavy and unnecessary loss of human life? It was the Australian Labor Government that accepted that the Federal Government should bear full responsibility for a national highway system and provided funds to reconstruct the Hume Highway. This Government has been forced into following the Labor Government's lead on national highways. The Hume Highway provides also an excellent example of the need for an integrated approach to transport expenditure and the need to consider public investment in railways as well as roads where they are competitive and /or complementary. 
Fifteen months ago the Minister for Transport tabled the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics on the evaluation of options for the upgrading of the Melbourne-Sydney rail link. That report showed that upgrading the link by the introduction of centralised traffic control and the construction of more and longer crossing loops could be done at a cost in 1973 prices for the New South Wales section of $2.4m with a calculated rate of return on the investment exceeding 30 per cent and for the Victorian section of $ 1.52m with again a calculated rate of return on the investment exceeding 30 per cent. So for something like $7m in current prices one could have expected a return of over 30 per cent on the investment on that upgrading of the rail link. The report went on to state: 
The social benefit to cost ratio of upgrading the SydneyMelbourne rail link, ignoring congestion effects on the Hume Highway if the rail is left in its present state, is expected to be in the range of 1 .7 to S.2, depending on the discount rate and traffic growth. 
The Minister's response and this Government's response to that report has been to leave it to the 
States, despite the national importance of the investment in upgrading the Hume Highway and in upgrading the rail link. This is probably the best national example of the need for coordination in transport investment and for examination of the public investment in each of the two modes of transport instead of it being left to one level of government- whether it be the Victorian Government or the New South Wales Governmentto try to find a priority in its Budget and for the Federal Government to be doing another thing in its way and established on its set of financial priorities. The strange thing as far as the taxpayer is concerned is that his money is being spent in this respect by three different governments in three different ways and he is not being given service as efficient as he should be getting, and is providing competition rather than coordination between the two modes. 
I advert now to the Press release that the Acting Minister made today. In a section of that Press release the Minister points out that the Commonwealth's appropriations for 1978-79 and 1979-80 will be maintained at a real level at least equal to the $475m which it has already been announced will be made available for 1977-78. I have already related to the Parliament the reaction of the Australian Transport Advisory Council to that proposition and how it was determined. But I want to relate that amount of $475 m, if that is to be established as the real level of expenditure on roads, to the expenditure during the previous triennium. If one takes into account the fact that the 1975-76 indexation grant of $64m was something like one-half of what was recommended as an indexation grant by the Bureau of Roads and the 1976-77 indexation grant of $35.8m, which is to be compared with the $157m recommended by the Bureau of Roads as the appropriate indexation grant, and adds those together one will find that the amount for the coming triennium will be substantially less in real terms than the amount for the previous triennium. I have not taken into account in the figures I have mentioned the fact that, given the projected inflation figure for the corning year, it would seem that the $47 5m will be a reduction in real terms of something like 8 per centsomewhere between 7 per cent and 8 per cent. So the garden is not as lovely as the Acting Minister seeks to point out in the second paragraph of this morning's Press release. In effect, there is to be a substantial reduction in real terms in the coming triennium as compared with the previous triennium. 
I move on now to a later paragraph of his statement which relates to this Bill. It is appropriate because it is an announcement on the legislation. In a later paragraph- I am taking it out of context- the Acting Minister said: ... I must repeat that funding for roads is a responsibility of all 3 levels of government. 
I think that is like a motherhood statement. Everybody is aware that the 3 levels of goverment make a contribution. 
-You would not know. 
-For New South Wales it is 64 per cent. You can dispute it if you like. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  I would suggest to the honourable member for La Trobe that he should leave his reply until the stage when the Chair calls him to make his speech. 
-Thank you for your protection,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The responsibility of the 3 levels of government is taken for granted. But the statement, if one looks at it in that context and without reading all of that paragraph, implies that there is an irresponsibility on the part of governments other than the Federal Government. What has to be taken into account is the capacity of the other 2 levels of government to raise the funds that are needed and the priorities of the other 2 levels of government. I do not think that it does anything to achieve the kind of objective that we want to achieve in relation to transport for one arm of government or one level of government to hive out of the discussion and say: 'It is up to the other 2 governments to find the money that is needed. This is all we are providing. You find your own'. 
I want quickly to advert to the response of the leading Conservative Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court. What was his reaction to the announcement about the allocation of the $475m? He accused the Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  of juggling road figures and said that he had adopted a carping, critical attitude over road funds. I repeat again for the benefit of the honourable members opposite for Western Australia that he also said: 
It is time that  Mr Nixon  and some of the West Australian Federal members of Parliament realised that Western Australia has urgent road needs and will continue to fight for more road funds, and fight hard. 
That was his response to what has been presented to the Parliament as a generous grant for the coming year.  Mr Rafferty,  the Minister of Transport in the other Conservative State Government- the Victorian Government- said when speaking after the third ATAC meeting that the States had seriously to consider withdrawing from Council meetings, which were a farce and an exercise in futility. He went on to say: 
We have been concerned for some time about the complete lack of consultation with the States by  Mr Nixon. 
I think that the reference to the way in which the Press release of 25 February was released in Canberra while ATAC was meeting in Hobart is a very clear example of the lack of consultation. The Minister for Transport in New South Wales had this to say in the New South Wales Parliament: 
The Prime Minister wrote to the Premier saying: 'Make certain that you reach the quota that has been set for New South Wales-$ 1.47m'. 
He went on to say: 
That is an intolerable situation particularly in view of the so-called new federalism policy emanating from Canberra. The Federal Government is adopting standover tactics to try to get the Labor Government of this State to change its position. It refuses to do so. 
There we have the 2 most populous States in our federation and the most isolated State in our federation, which have a major responsibility for roads and a major need for road maintenance and construction, all echoing the comments of each other. Surely the Government, if it is seriously to consider the problem of transport in this country, must take some notice of that. Surely that is not a party political presentation from the 3 gentlemen concerned. I do not have time to look at the position in each of the States, but I do want to say in detail as far as New South Wales is concerned that the Prime Minister told New South Wales that it should spend $147m whereas its expenditure was in excess of that figure. New South Wales has consistently pulled its weight in road funding and has always spent well in excess of the quota. The Commonwealth, in contrast, has consistently fallen short. The estimated total expenditure on roads in New South Wales by the New South Wales Government from all sources in 1976-77 will be $ 189m. This is greater than the Bureau of Roads recommendation of $ 186.8m and over 40 per cent more than the quota required under the Roads Grants Act. The Commonwealth grant is $ 137.3m or only 76 per cent of the Bureau of Roads recommendation of $ 180m. For 1977-78 the forecast total expenditure on roads in New South Wales through all State sources is expected to be in excess of $200m. This will be about 85 per cent of the Bureau of Roads recommendation of $238.6m and, again, 35 per cent more than the $ 147.7m now proposed. This is contrasted with the Commonwealth grant of $153m or only 64 per cent of the Bureau of Roads recommendation of $238. 6m. 
State road funds in New South Wales are already providing for rural areas, with about 75 per cent going to country areas. The proposals for 1977-78 Commonwealth grants will mean that about 72 per cent of the $153.8m will go to rural areas. Naturally, in the framework of the State budget and its road construction force this will cause a serious imbalance in its internal funding and deprive high need urban areas of essential road development. On the other hand, the national highway emphasis of the proposed Commonwealth grants, without providing urgently needed funds for mainline upgrading, which I mentioned earlier, and other areas of public transport, will further add to the State's financial burden. Here again we come back to this contradiction, this idiocy of different governments spending the same taxpayer's money each in competition with each other and without regard to the overall objective which ought to be to provide adequate and efficient transport services, particularly interstate transport services. On the one hand the Federal Government will be spending more money on one mode of transport. On the other hand it refuses to participate in funding for railway line upgrading because it sees that as the responsibility of the States. It may well be the responsibility of the States. I am not disputing that. What I suggest is that a transport system as important as the link between Sydney and Melbourne ought to be above the petty politics of State and federal confrontation. The objective of the Federal Government ought to be how it can best provide the kind of system that is needed, how it can best improve the quality of highway that is used, how it can best ease the burden on that highway and how quickly can it do it. As I mentioned earlier, much of the problem could be eased for something like $7m. There is no doubt that there has been obstinacy on the part of this Government. There has been a deliberate confrontation approach by this Government because of the Minister's performances in this place. The Minister prides himself in being able to intimidate and agitate the State Ministers. Because of that kind of approach the majority of Australians are not getting the kind of services that they need. 
The freight charges being imposed are probably higher than they would be if the rail services were improved as has been suggested, if there were some sort of co-ordination in respect of expenditure on road and rail and if there were goodwill between State governments concerned and the Federal Government. I suggest to the Minister that he should take up this matter. He should not treat the matter simply on the basis of avoiding a relatively small expenditure. This matter should not be left to the States. It is important from a national aspect that the Federal Government should take the initiative. After all, it was the Federal Government that took the initiative and called for the Bureau of Transport Economics study on the Melbourne line to Adelaide. The Bureau's report on this line is very similar to its report on the Melbourne to Sydney line. There is in this case a need for someone to take the initiative. It is preferable that the Federal Government should take the initiative by inviting the States to participate in consultation and co-operation so that something can be done. By taking this action we could then provide some sort of relief in respect of road systems. 
In conclusion I point out, as I said earlier, that the Bill is a stop gap measure. The Opposition hopes that the Minister will not use his discretionary powers provided under the Bill to do other than would be clearly set out in the terms of the principal legislation when it is introduced. It is unfortunate for the interest of transport in Australia that the Government has seen fit to use transport as a means by which it hopes to be able to pressure the States into introducing State income tax. Federalism has nothing to do with transport. This would be a most unfortunate action irrespective of which government was in power. Transport items which involve relatively large sums of money always seem to come in for one of the early chops when the Treasurer is doing his snipping and cutting because it is relatively easy to take out a small number of items and a large amount of money in this area. I hope that in the coming Budget the allocation for transport will not be cut back in the same severe way it was in the current Budget. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 21 April 1977: 
What was the turnaround time of the Australian National Line vessel  Darwin Trader  on each of its visits to the Port of Darwin since it commenced calling at that port. 
What was the comparable turnaround time of the  Darwin Trader on  each of its visits to the ports of Sydney and Melbourne. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports of unease in the aviation industry at the failure of the Government to make public the Aviation Review Committee's Report. 
) If so, will he now table the report. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) What was the Federal Government's allocation for the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway line for the year 1 976-77. 
) How much of this amount has been spent. 
What is the current projection of expenditure to June 1977. 
Is his Department considering revising the estimates for the project for the year 1 977-78. 
If so, will he guarantee that these revisions will not delay the completion of the rail link beyond 1979. 
-In the few minutes available to me I should like to make some reference to the plight of the Australian shipbuilding industry, and in particular to the interim report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on industrial support for defence needs and allied matters which was presented today. As a preface to my remarks I remind the House that this is the industry that has been sentenced to death by this Government. I want to bring to the attention of the House some of the human heartbreak and difficulty that has been experienced by families of employees who were previously employed at the Newcastle State Dockyard. I should like to mention 2 instances. The first concerns a family man who has to travel to Sydney each week where he pays $40 a week rent. The family is in desperate difficulty because this man who is well qualified has had to take a much lower paid job. The other example concerns a husband who has left his family because he is simply unable to support his family in the unemployment benefit. 
I should like to commend the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the justice of its report. I should like to read into the  Hansard  a few paragraphs from the report. Paragraph 7.86, in part states: 
It considers therefore that steps should be taken urgently to ensure the retention of large shipbuilding facilities in Australia which in the normal course would appear to be almost certain to cease operating in the near future. 
This is the only fair and balanced description of the problems of the shipbuilding industry that I have seen. Paragraph 7.87 of the report, in part, states: 
It - 
That is the Committee-  is of the opinion that poor productivity and high costs in the past have stemmed primarily from inadequate work load, outdated plant and bad industrial relations. An important contributory factor has been the inability of the industry to offer ship buyers terms of payment as attractive as those on offer from overseas. 
That is a very correct description of what brought about the problems of the shipbuilding industry, leaving out the politics of the matter. I urge the Government seriously to consider and hopefully to accept the recommendations of the Committee which are:  the industry to be rationalised; the existing ship construction facilities at Whyalla and Newcastle be retained; there be an injection of capital at both yards on a shared basis, sharing being between the Commonwealth and NSW governments in the case of Newcastle, and between the Commonwealth and the SA governments and BHP in the case of Whyalla, the amount of capital to be that needed to bring the physical capability of each of the yards to a standard matching that of overseas shipyards of similar capacity; there be workload on a continuing basis for the rationalised industry resulting from a 'build in Australia ' policy for Australian ships; 
The final section of the paragraph states:   . . subject to a suitable manning productivity understanding with the maritime unions, and Australian flag policy for a proportion of overseas trade; 
In general I believe that the recommendations of the Committee are practical. I believe they would be acceptable to the people involved in the industry. I believe that they would ensure that we as an island and as a maritime nation would retain a shipbuilding capacity. If the cost of updating the plant is to be shared between governments and the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and there is rationalisation- 
I have read the rather acrimonious dissenting report of the honourable member for Higgins. I dismiss that along with the one page dissenting report of the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short).  However, given his Treasury background that was to be expected. But in general I think the report gives a fair and balanced picture. There have been problems in the industry and I believe that for the first time all of those problems have been correctly identified. They have been put into perspective. 
I now want to mention the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission on shipbuilding, namely, that in the event of the industry not continuing, special facilties be provided by the Government to assist employees who would be displaced. A great deal of suffering is occurring in the Newcastle and Hunter regions as a result of the IAC report and the Government's apparent acceptance of the report. On behalf of those people who are suffering I ask the Government, if it is not going to act on the shipbuilding industry in the near future, at least to implement the recommendations of the IAC in respect of providing special facilties for people in hardship and special facilities for the relocation of the people who are now unemployed as a result of the Government's decision on this matter. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
What were the operating results of the Australian National Line vessel  Darwin Trader  in each of the years it has been in service to Darwin. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 April: 
1 ) What was the cost of charter aircraft made available to each Minister during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 31 December 1975, (b) 1 January 1976 to 31 December 1976 and (c)1 January 1977 to 31 March 1977. 
For what purposes are charter aircraft made available to Ministers. 
Must each request for the use of a charter aircraft be made separately and approved separately by the Minister. 
Does any Minister have standing approval for the use of chaner aircraft without making separate requests; if so, who are the Ministers, and why do they have standing approval. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) What has been the Federal Government expenditure on (a) maintenance, and (b) sealing of lengths of road for the Stuart Highway between Alice Springs and Port Augusta for each of the years 1 965-66 to 1 97 1 -72, for the period June 1972 to December 1972 and December 1972 to June 1973, and for each of the years 1 973-74 to 1 976-77. 
) What distances were sealed for each of these years and periods. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
I ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas, or is scheduled to travel overseas, during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by him, (ii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iii) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
2 ) What charges were made against his Department 's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in pan ( 1 ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and subdivision numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid, showing division and subdivision numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments received, and when. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 April 1 977: 
1 ) Has he undertaken to consider the funding of urban and non-urban public transport projects where they are properly supported by evaluations 
) Has a benefit/cost analysis been carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics in conjunction with the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales on the GosfordNewcastle electrification project. 
If so, were the results favourable. 
Did the New South Wales Minister for Transport and Highways write to him in December 1976 regarding the prospect of Federal funding for this and other projects; if so, what has been his response. 
What prospect is there of Federal two-thirds grant being made available for this work. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
What was the date of acquisition of each work of art lent to Government House and Admiralty House since his answers on 23 March and 27 April 1976  (Hansard,  pages 928 and 1653). 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
What cabotage or fifth freedom entitlements has Qantas received in other countries in return for any Australian concessions to international airlines involving entitlements to Australian domestic passenger traffic. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 May 1 977: 
1 ) Has he had inquiries made into the reported incident on about 15 April 19/7 at Johannesburg Airport concerning a Qantas 747 jet and a South African Airways Airbus. 
If so, what was the result of those inquiries. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Can he say whether the firm Kerr-McGee Australia Ltd operates in Australia. 
If so, is its New South Wales Agent a firm called Quadland Pty Ltd of 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 
Is he able to say if Kerr-McGee Australia Ltd's directors in 1976 were Messrs Dean Anderson McGee, Frank Criner Love, Lynn Adams, David Albin Watkins, George C. Hardin (Jnr) and Harold J. Kleen all of Oklahoma, U.S.A. 
Is he also able to say if George C. Hardin (Jnr) was the same George C. Hardin, a vice president of Ashland Oil Inc., who admitted to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 1975 that he was involved in irregular contributions to Congressional campaigns out of his own funds but was later reimbursed by the Corporation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Did he tell me in answer to question No. 787  (Hansard,  4 June 1976, page 3127) that companies in Australia, both domestic and foreign, are required to operate within the framework of Australian law. 
If so, is he able to specify those provisions within the framework of Australian law which govern the conduct of foreign based companies in Australia who have acted or may act in collaboration with or as agents for the United States Central Intelligence Agency. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Is he able to say which United States companies that operate in Australia either directly or through a subsidiary or an associate company have admitted to activities overseas associated with the United States Central Intelligence Agency. If not, will he initiate action to identify these companies. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 May 1 977: 
What specific provisions exist within the framework of Australian law to protect Australian citizens from breaches of their privacy by the activities of United States corporations which operate in Australia, either directly or through subsidiaries or in association with other companies, and who have admitted having acted in collaboration with or as agents for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1) Can he say whether Ashland Oil Inc. of U.S.A. is a part owner of Valvoline (Australia) Pty Ltd and Australian Carbon Black Pty Ltd. 
ls he also able to say if this is the same Ashland Oil Inc. of U.S.A. whose auditors advised the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on 9 August I97S that it was paid $98,968 by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency between 1 968 and 1 973 for undisclosed purposes. 
Is he also able to say if the $98,968 paid to the Corporation was reimbursement to the corporation for employment of U.S. Central Intelligence Agency agents abroad as part of an agency deep cover operation as reported in the  Washington Post of 9 lAy  1975. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 May 1 977: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether Ashland Oil Inc of U.S.A. was a joint owner of Australian Carbon Black Pty Ltd and Valvoline (Australia) Pty Ltd in 1975. 
Is he also able to say whether the  Chairman  of Ashland Oil Inc of U.S.A. was a  Mr Orin  E. Atkins in 1 975. 
Is he also able to say whether this was the same Ashland Oil Inc. of U.S.A. that admitted to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 1 975 that it had carried on gross malpractices in domestic and foreign business dealings and had provided a cover for covert U.S. Central Intelligence Agency operatives outside the United States. 
Can he also say if  Mr Orin  E. Atkins is the same  Mr Orin  E. Atkins who said he felt what he was doing was being done generally. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Can he say whether the firm Australian Carbon Black Pty Ltd carries on business in Australia. 
Is he able to say if its directors were Messrs H. J. Warren, J. Andrews, S. Bennett, S. Coco, W. Greeley, E. A. Von Doerstan, R. E. Yancey and A. G. Aliotti in 1 976. 
Is he also able to say if its alternate directors were Messrs P. C. Trumble, R. E. Dicker, F. S. Detheridge and R. M. McDonald in 1976. 
Can he also say if the company is owned jointly by Ashland Oil Inc. of the United States and The Cabot Corporation U.S.A. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Can he say whether the firm Valvoline (Australia) Pty Ltd carries on business in Australia. 
If so, is it owned jointly by Ashland Oil and Refining Coy, U.S.A., and Total (Aust.) Ltd. 
Were its directors in 1976 Messrs Harold Victor Quinton, Oscar G. Meyer, Harry J. Warren, Alan Streichenberger, Zala C. Tatton and Edward J. Lacey. 

 Mr Anthony (Acting Prime Minister)- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Two of the shareholders of the company are Ashland Valaust Inc. (U.S.A.) and Total Holdings (Aust.) Pty Ltd. 
MrOscarG. Meyer was a director of Valvoline (Aust.) Pty Ltd in 1976. 
International Airlines: Competition with Domestic Carriers (Question No. 924) 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
Have any aircraft operated by Masling Airlines suffered engine failure whilst in service during 1976 and 1977. 
If so, what were the circumstances and date of each failure and what action has been taken by his Department to investigate the causes of the failures. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
1 ) Did he tell me in an answer to question No. 725  (Hansard,  25 May 1977, page 1894) that the policy under normal circumstances is that foreign airlines are not permitted to fly passengers between Australian cities in competition with domestic airlines. 
If so, under what circumstances are foreign airlines permitted to fly passengers between Australian cities in competition with domestic airlines. 
What foreign airlines have been permitted to fly under these circumstances and between which cities have they flown during 1976 and 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
Is he able to say what factors have led to the Galston area being again investigated as a possible site for Sydney's second major airport by the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What amount was paid or expected to be paid, to each of the States, under each category of expenditure as provided in (a) the  National Roads Act  1974, (b) the  Roads Grants Act  1974, (c) the  Transport (Planning and Research) Act  1974, (d) the  Roads Acts Amendments Act  1976, (e) the  Roads Acts Amendment Act (No. 2)  1976, and (0 the  Roads Acts Amendment Bill  1977 during the years 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
What is the remainder expected to be of the appropriations under each of those Acts by State and in total as at 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by the Minister, (iii) overseas visits by any other Minister and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in pan ( 1 ) by way of ( a) cost of travel, ( b ) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Foregin Affairs, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1973 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iti) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( 1 ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Depanment, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 1 June 1 977: 
1 ) What in the name and classification of each officer of his Depanment who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 197S to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the cater.gories listed in pan ( 1 ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature, if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his depanment who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 197S to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
) What charges were made against his Depanment 's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( 1 ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Depanment, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
Did he say in Kuala Lumpur on 22 April 1977, as reported by Australian Associated Press, that the Australian Government was not immediately planning any review of the existing deployment to the Royal Malaysian Air Force base, Butterworth, of two Mirage squadrons of the RAAF. 
If so, did his statement mean that no consideration is currently being given to the re-deployment of any of these aircraft back to Australia. 
In view of the present strategic environment, does he consider that the deployment to two RAAF squadrons to Butterworth remains relevant to the needs of both Malaysia and Australia and relevant to the realities of the region. 
Does the Government consider that the RAAF squadrons should be available to assist the armed forces of Malaysia or Singapore in the event of external aggression against either country. 
Is it considered that any significant armed attack would be likely to involve substantial internal security operations. 
Would Australia's assistance in repelling such armed attack be contrary to the principle of non-involvement in internal security operations declared by successive Australian Governments. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 1 June 1 977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( 1 ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and subdivision numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and subdivision numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of the Department of Veterans' Affairs who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by the Minister, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against the estimates for the Department of Veterans' Affairs in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( 1 ) by way of (a) cost of travel, ( b ) cost of accommodation and ( c ) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and subdivision numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and subdivision numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department received and when. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Did the Grants Commission take account of the loss incurred by the Brisbane City Council's street public transport undertaking in assessing Queensland's expenditure needs for 1974-75. 
If so, was this the first occasion on which the Grants Commission has taken account of the loss incurred by the 
Brisbane City Council's street public transport undertaking in assessing Queensland 's expenditure needs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Was the assessed special grant for Queensland for 1974-75 increased over what it would otherwise have been because the Brisbane City Council 's street public transport undertaking deficit in that year, modified for the relevant policy differences, was taken into account. 
Was the amount of Queensland's assessed needs met from other Commonwealth grants for 1974-75 increased over what it would otherwise have been because the Brisbane City Council's street public transport undertaking deficit in that year, modified for the policy differences, was taken into account. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) By what amount was Queensland 's assessed special grant for 1974-75 increased on account of the Brisbane City Council's street public transport undertaking modified deficit being taken into account. 
By what amount was Queensland 's assessed needs met from other Commonwealth grants for 1974-75 increased on account of the Brisbane City Council 's street public transport undertaking modified deficit being taken into account. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
Are Commonwealth car drivers required to have regular medical checks; if so, what is the nature and frequency of the checks. 
Are Commonwealth car drivers required to have security clearances; if so, what is the nature and frequency of these security clearances. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) I July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( 1) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 1 June 1 977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( 1 ) by way of ( a ) cost of travel, ( b ) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of the Department of Industry and Commerce who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) I July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by the Minister, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against the estimates for the Department of Industry and Commerce in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( I ) by of (a) cost of travel, ( b ) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of the Department of Education who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976, and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by the Minister, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and 'iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against  '*&lt;  estimates for the Department of Education in respect ' ' ~'.i of those officers under the categories listed in part . ' '.)' way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November I97S to 30 June 1976 and (b) I July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect or each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( I ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature: if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of the Department of Social Security who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) II November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) I July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by the Minister, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against the estimates for the Department of Social Security in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in pan ( I ) by way of (a) cost of travel. ( b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
4 ) Were funds set aside in the Department 's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments. including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) I July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and ( iv ) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in pan ( I ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
I ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) I July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits For any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( I ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 June 1 977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 197S to 30 June 1976 and (b) I July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part (1) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on I June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the period (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on dudes associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( I ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and ( c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1 977: 
1 ) Has he received the report of the study into the 3 airports given 'black star' ratings by the International Federation of Airline Pilots in April 1977. 
If so, when will he table the report in the Parliament. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) II November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) I July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii ) overseas visits by any other Ministers and ( iv ) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
2 ) What charges were made against his Department 's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( I ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and ( iv ) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
2 ) What charges were made against his Department 's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( 1 ) by way of (a) cost to travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 1 June 1 977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimate in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( 1 ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
What is the name and classification of each officer of the Department of Administrative Services who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by the Minister, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against the estimates for the Department of Administrative Services in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( 1 ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature. If so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( 1 ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature. If so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
What is the name and classification of each officer of the Department of Science who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) II November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by the Minister, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against the estimates for the Department of Science in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in pan ( 1 ) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature. If so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) Has he undertaken to consider the funding of urban and non-urban public transport projects, where they are properly supported by evaluations. 
Has a benefit/cost analysis been carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics in conjunction with the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales on the GosfordNewcastle electrification project. 
If so, were the results favourable. 
Did the New South Wales Minister for Transport and Highways write to him in December 1976 regarding the prospect of Federal funding for this and other projects; if so, what has been his response. 
What prospect is there of Federal two-thirds grant being made available for this work. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
What amount was paid, or is expected to be paid, to each of the States under the provisions of: 
the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974; 
the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974; and 
the Urban Public Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974 during the years 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
What is the remainder expected to be of each appropriation under each of those Acts by State and in total as at 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
Who determines the manning scales of Australian ships and what are the detailed procedures followed in assessing the size of the crew. 
Is he required to approve the manning scale for each vessel. 
Is he able to provide any detailed information on manning scales for vessels of comparable trading nations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
Do some 'flag of convenience' ships traversing Australian waters operate at times on an unmanned bridge basis during (a) daylight and (b) night hours; if so, is he able to say what steps are taken to ensure that safe operating procedures are followed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1 977: 
1 ) Is he able to say of the number of qualified personnel required to serve on 'flag of convenience vessels operating to Australia is the same as that required on Australian registered vessels. 
What are the crewing requirements and qualifications necessary for Australian National Line vessels carrying ore from north west Australian ports to (a) overseas destinations and ( b ) domestic ports. 
What are the comparable crewing requirements and qualifications necessary on overseas vessels operating in the same trade where applicable. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
1 ) How many incidents or accidents at sea involving (a) Australian, (b) 'flag of convenience' and (c) other overseas vessels have occurred in each of the years 1970 to 1976 inclusive. 
What information is he able to provide on the nature of each of the incidents or accidents. 
3 ) What action was taken by his Department in respect of each incident or accident. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
What is the type and registered number of each aircraft operated by his Department. 
For what purpose is each aircraft used. 
What was the number of operational hours accrued by each aircraft for the periods (a) 1 January 1975 to 11 November 1975 and (b) 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
Where is each aircraft normally based. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
Did he tell me in answer to Question No. 1702  (Hansard,15  February 1977, page 87) that he does not consider it appropriate to table the reports of the Aviation Industry Review Committee. 
If so, will he explain why he considers it inappropriate to table the reports. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
1 ) Has he completed his examination of the recommendations of the Aviation Industry Review Committee. 
If so, did the Committee recommend that (a) the existing regional boundaries for civil aviation operations in his Department be redrawn, (b) the regional organisations concentrate simply on minor day to day matters with all major problems being handled by the central administration and 
a separate Civil Aviation unit, headed by a DirectorGeneral reporting to the Minister, be established in his Department. 
If so, what action does the Government propose to take to implement the recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
1 ) What sum was paid, or is expected to be paid, under each category of the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme during (a) April 1977, (b) May 1977 and (c) June 1977. 
Will he provide details of the total amount paid or expected to be paid, under each category of this scheme during 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
What are the classifications and salaries of the 23 officers who refused transfers to Canberra from the Central Office of his Department from 1 January 1976 to 19 April 1977. 
What are the classifications and salaries of the 11 officers who transferred to alternative positions within the Department's Melbourne offices rather than accept transfers to Canberra. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
What consultations have taken place between the Federal Government and the State governments to ensure adoption of the Draft Regulations of the Australian Advisory Transport Committee. 
-I join with previous speakers in paying my tribute to Rex Connor, the man I knew and with whom I worked. As a new member of the Parliament in early 1973 I appreciated Rex Connor when I came here. Like all other new members I arrived not knowing where to start nor how to go about things. It was from Rex Connor that I received the hand of welcome. He gave me advice and guidance and reassurance when things became difficult. Rex was described by the media as a big man. He was a big man physically and he had a big heart but I found him a very humble man. That was the Rex that came across to me in my dealings with him. I found him to be a man with a great love for his country. It seemed to me that that was the crime for which he paid the penalty of being maligned and smeared as no man in my memory has been smeared by the media of this country. Lesser men would have yielded, would have weakened, under that onslaught. All it did to him was to strengthen his resolve, his determination and his dedication to see that his efforts and the efforts of the Australian Labor Party in this place were directed towards ensuring that the resources of this country and the wealth of this country were developed in a way that would ensure that they were shared to the best advantage of all Australians, not just to some Australians and some people outside this country. 
Last evening I was grieved and became angry when I heard on the  PM  program a rebroadcast of an interview that apparently had been recorded during the height of the so-called loans discussion. I thought nothing could be more inappropriate when Rex had barely passed on, had barely left the world of the living. That recording was resurrected not in reverence for the man or in respect of his efforts and ideals but simply for its media value. The words and questions that related to a contrived series of events were resurrected simply for media consumption. Following that there was a man commenting on the past and the performance of this great Australian. Towards the end of his commentary that man said: 'It seems that we will never really know what transpired in the loans affair'. If there was a way of denigrating the memory of Rex Connor, to my way of thinking that was it. I am sorry it happened. I wish it had not happened. Rex Connor was a great Australian. As the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said, it is strange that in the media of our nation great men are recognised only after their death and not in life. I convey to members of his family my deepest sympathy and condolences at their loss and Australia 's loss. 
-The purpose of the Air Navigation Amendment Bill 1977 is to provide parliamentary approval to the ratification of the protocol adopted at the twenty-first session of the assembly of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. The session was held in Montreal, the headquarters of ICAO, and the effect of the protocol was to amend Article 50A so as to increase the membership of the ICAO Council, which is its governing body, from 30 to 33. The basis of the decision was that the membership of ICAO had increased to 140 states and hence an increase of three in the size of the Council was appropriate. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill nor does it wish to delay the passage of the Bill. ICAO is a substantial and important body in international aviation and operates as a specialised agency of the United Nations. Australia has been a member of ICAO since its inception in 1947 and has played an important role in its deliberations and activities. We were represented on the first management committee of the Council by  Mr R.  W. Gross and at the world conference in 
Montreal in April of this year our delegation was ably led by  Mr J.  Rowland. Given that there are 140 members of ICAO, it is to Australia's credit and a recognition of the vital nature of aviation in our transport systems that member states have seen fit repeatedly to re-elect Australia's representatives to the Council. I do not think that any country has as great a dependence on efficient, safe and reliable air services, both domestic and international, as Australia. The development of those services has enabled our nation to develop as an international trader much more quickly than would have been the case in the absence of aviation services. While the Bill before us is not a controversial one nor is it in dispute, I am disappointed that it has taken three years to get here. In his second reading speech the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  noted that at 1 July 1977 only 52 member states of ICAO Had ratified the protocol and that 86 member states needed to ratify it before it would come into force. 
I do not wish in the course of the debate to give a long explanation of the purposes and functions of ICAO, but I think it is relevant to mention something of its objectives and the magnitude of its activities. At 31 December 1973, and these are the latest figures I have been able to obtain, ICAO employed 657 persons in the secretariat in Montreal, 132 persons in its regional offices, and 180 in professional categories in the field on UNDP projects, a total work force of over 1,000 persons of 57 different nationalities. Its 1973 budget- and its budget is based on the calendar year rather than on our fiscal year- showed total appropriations of $US 13.0 10m. Contributions from member states totalled $US 10.092m, with the major share of that amount coming from the United States, Soviet Russia, the United Kingdom, France and West Germany. Australia's share, as appropriated in last year's Budget, was $240,000 but the actual payment was only $2 15,135. 1 do not know why there is a discrepancy in those amounts, and perhaps the Minister will enlighten us later in the debate. Without impinging on the Budget debate now before the Parliament, I note also that $260,000 has been provided in the current Budget for our contribution this year. 
The aims and objectives of ICAO are to develop the principles and techniques of international air transport so as to ensure the safe and orderly growth of international civil aviation throughout the world; to encourage the arts of aircraft design and operation for peaceful purposes; to encourage the development of airways, airports and air navigation facilities for international civil aviation; to meet the needs of the peoples of the world for safe, regular, efficient and economic air transport; to prevent economic waste caused by unreasonable competition; to ensure that the rights of contracting states are fully respected and that every contracting state has a fair opportunity to operate international airlines; to avoid discrimination between contracting states; to promote safety of flight in international air navigation; and to promote generally the development of all aspects of civil aeronautics. 
I mentioned a few moments ago that membership of the Council is the subject of this Bill, the Council being the governing body of the organisation. The world conference of ICAO, which as I mentioned was held in April this year, was the first full world conference of the organisation held for 30 years. It is worth noting that the major issues discussed were those of capacity of international airlines, the development of nonscheduled air services and, in particular, charter air services. I bring that matter before the Parliament because it is the subject of much debate in the Australian community at the moment. Whilst recently I welcomed the decision of the Minister to conduct a review of Australian domestic air transport services, I did express my disappointment that that review was not being carried out publicly. 
It seems to me that in Australia the aviation industry is in many ways a private club. It is a club of industry and government, but the industry depends upon traffic and upon the carriage of persons and the carriage of freight. When it is recalled that in the financial year just ended 1,023,000 Australians travelled overseas, most of them by air, it is clear that there ought to be a vehicle through which they can express their views on the types of transport services provided, the frequency of air schedules, the fares, and the quality of services provided. Until such time as government and the aviation industry in this country open up these sacred chambers of discussion to the community, the community is not going to be best served. 
We hear many complaints from individuals who use the airline services. We hear complaints from organisations and from businesses on the cost of air fares. As a Parliament we do not provide any means by which the community can express those views or justify the views that they put. That is why I mentioned a few weeks ago, when the Minister set up the review of Australian air transport services, that it would be inadequate unless the inquiry was public and unless there was a clear opportunity for people to go along and  listen to the  submissions and be able publicly to put their own submissions about the kind of services they wanted, the quality of the services, what they were prepared to pay, and what people in the industry thought would be the best type of service to meet Australia's needs, both domestically and internationally. I think it would be to the advantage of Australia if the scope of the inquiry was widened to include international air services. The time is long past when the average Australian thought of air services simply as services within Australia. All of the major international airlines which operate out of Australia seek to increase their traffic by advertising and by promotion campaigns. Sections of the tourist industry seek to encourage Australians to travel abroad, but nobody bothers to ask people what kind of services they want, what kind of holiday package they would like to have. All of that is heightened by the recent visit to Australia of  Mr Laker  and his proposal to the Government and to the Select Committee on Tourism to introduce charter fares. I will return to that a little later. Also involved in that same scene is the recent decision by  President  Carter to authorise Continental Airlines to operate a Pacific service to Australia when it is claimed that such an act would provide a significant overcapacity on that route. It will also be recalled that it is not so long ago that Qantas withdrew from certain routes in the Pacific because of overcapacity and that a little earlier American Airlines had withdrawn from the same service because of over-capacity. 
Let me return to the people who are really important, the consumers of air services, the people who want to travel overseas.  Mr Laker's  proposals, on the face of them, must appear very attractive to those Australians who would like to go abroad. They must appear more attractive to those three million Australians who were not born in Australia, those who have very strong and continuing links with their families overseas or whose families overseas would like to visit relatives here. I think that this matter is one of great importance to Australians and should not be dealt with just by industry and by government. The Opposition would like to see a vehicle created whereby the people, the consumers themselves, would have an input into aviation industry decisions, particularly on capacity and on fare structures. I said earlier in a statement on behalf of the Australian Labor Party that one of our objectives in aviation would be to establish consumer councils  so that such a mechanism  could be created and government would be aware of who wanted to travel and how much they could afford to pay. Those desires could then be taken into account when trying to assess the capacity of our own international flag carrier, Qantas, and when trying to fit a low cost-type air travel into scheduled air services.  Mr Laker's  proposals have been very well promoted by the Press and I must congratulate him and his organisation on their capacity and on the quality of their presentation. I do not know of any other airline operating into Australia- 
-The Minister says 'hear, hear! ' and I agree with him on that point. Credit should be given where credit is due.  Mr Laker  and his organisation have presented a better case over a longer period than any other international airline wishing to fly in and out of Australia. I must confess that the Opposition is a little intrigued about how  Mr Laker  can give an assurance that he can bring in and take out full aeroplanes. The suggestion is that he would not intrude on traffic out of Australia but would bring additional traffic into Australia. We would all like to see that happen, and particularly so the Australian tourist industry and the other airlines operating out of Australia because, if that were the situation, travellers being what they are, from time to time there would be a flow-over from those charter flights to some of the scheduled services or other flights for the return journey when the travellers who have arrived in Australia wish for one reason or another to change their schedules. 
I come back to the central point. What do the people of Australia want, what are they prepared to pay and are they prepared to travel, as  Sir Lenox  Hewitt puts it, with six toilets instead of 14, with three 9 hour travelling stints, pay a lower price and land at an airport 3 hours journey away from London on the trip to the United Kingdom or would they prefer to pay a higher price and have a service more readily available when they want it so that they can pick and choose when they want to go. These are some of the factors that need to be taken into consideration. However, there is another side to it. I find here a conflict which is difficult to resolve in the attitude of sectors of the Australian tourist industry. On the one hand there is a sector of the tourist industry which put to the previous Government and is putting to this Government the suggestion that because of what it calls the depressed state of internal tourism in Australiathat is, Australians travelling within Australiathe Government, which means the taxpayer, should in some way subsidise capital investment and renovation programs of the tourist industry and the establishment of facilities in other areas to cater for tourists. That is one side of the equation. 
On the other side of the equation is another sector of the tourist industry which supports  Mr Laker's  proposals for low price air fares to and from Australia through charter or non-scheduled services. On the information available to me at this stage- and I would be interested to hear the Minister's comments because I think this is important to the Australian community-I do not believe that, if we are to drop air fares substantially the incoming traffic that  Mr Laker  assures us there will be will more than offset an increase in outgoing traffic. It could well be that the Australian tourist industry as a whole in terms of both its internal and its external operations, could be the loser. So although the tourist industry is saying that it needs Government assistance to improve its facilities, part of the industry is saying that we ought to make fares cheaper so that more people can travel overseas. Over the last 2 years there has been continual criticism from sectors of the Australian tourist industry that its main competition has come from overseas package tours, particularly those to Asia. I suggest not by way of criticism but in a sincere way to the tourist industry that it ought to determine its priorities before it approaches the Parliament, so that parliamentarians will have a clear understanding of what the tourist industry wants. 
In recent weeks  Mr Laker  appeared before the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism and some members of the Committee were very impressed with the proposals he put forward. But I must come back to his original claim that he can give an assurance to bring full aeroplanes to Australia and take full aeroplanes out of Australia. In other words, he will not be decreasing traffic presently available out of Australia but will increase the tourist potential within Australia by bringing in more persons from overseas. Before Parliament makes a decision on this matter much more information needs to be brought out into the open not by way of claim but in the form of solid evidence. 
That brings me back to my earlier comment in respect of the 3 million Australians who were not born here and who have very strong ties overseas. As a nation we have a responsibility to those people to facilitate travel to their relatives. In many cases these people left Europe for Australia 15 to 25 years ago and their parents and grandparents in Europe have now reached a considerable age. It is a matter of great emotional significance to them that they be able to travel to Europe to see those relatives in their declining years. For that reason, I hope that the Minister can develop some way to include in the present review of domestic air transport services a review of international air transport services, so that we can look at the whole picture. We all understand the on-carriage which occurs in Australia as a result of airlines coming into the country. People who come into Australia do not necessarily wish to stay at the point at which they arrive. They might arrive at Brisbane, Melbourne or Sydney but the odds are that they will want to travel on to some other point within Australia. So in that sense they can add to the potential of domestic air traffic. We have a responsibility to those people to try to do something to broaden the discussion and to base the discussion on facts rather than on the claims of those who wish to market the services. 
I do not want to labour the Parliament by reading into  Hansard  the agenda items or recommendations that were adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organisation conference but I simply advert to the conference in this way. Unfair trade practices or, to use a better term, malpractices in ticket selling and the under the counter deals with some airlines that the Minister has referred to in this Parliament were raised. I mention that aspect to show that it is not simply a domestic matter in Australia; it is a matter concerning civil aviation throughout the world. If people simply wish to take the short term advantage of getting a cut price rate for travel to some place, that is all very well, but everyone expects whether they are travelling overseas or within Australia that there will be an efficient, safe and reliable air service which will operate with reasonable frequency to take them wherever they want to go. Cut prices or bargain basement rates at certain times are not compatible with a reliable quality air service. Somewhere there has to be a reconciliation of those two objectives. I hope that the Minister will be able to add something to my comments. The Opposition does not wish to delay the Bill. We do not oppose it. 
-This evening, I would like to support the remarks made last evening in this chamber by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  on the national highway in the vicinity of Newcastle. The section of the highway in dispute runs from Doyalson to Swansea. The impact of traffic on that section bears most upon my own electorate. The section leads directly into Newcastle and has been the subject of dispute between the Department of Main Roads and the Federal Department of Transport for something like 18 months to two years now. On 27 August last year a meeting was held at Swansea of the local Federal members, State members, representatives of local governments, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the New South Wales Minister for Transport and  Mr Sexton,  the  Deputy  Commissioner of the New South Wales Department of Main Roads to exchange views and to try to develop some sort of consensus. 
Unfortunately, throughout the period of this dispute, the Newcastle Chamber of Commerce has promoted the view that that section of the Pacific Highway, which is presently classified as part of the national highway, ought to be upgraded as requested by the Department of Main Roads- that is, to four lane standard. Unfortunately the Chamber of Commerce holds the outdated view that the more traffic that comes into the inner area of Newcastle the more business there will be for its members and, apparently it thinks, for the people of that area. The truth is that the opposite is the case. 
The strip of land between Swansea and Newcastle in the main is a fairly narrow peninsula. It is fairly heavily developed and is in the process of further development. It is very heavily trafficked. Because of the problems associated with that region and in the vicinity of the Blackbutt Reserve at New Lambton Heights in my electorate, in January 1975 the then Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle, asked the Bureau of Roads to conduct a study into where the national highway should go in the vicinity of Newcastle and to take into account public expressions and public views. The exercise carried out by the Bureau of Roads was the best I have ever seen in terms of public participation and public input. Various proposals were explained by the Bureau of Roads representatives and a large number of residents and groups gave evidence before the representative of the Bureau. The report of the study group was tabled in the House last year. It is titled: National Highway Linking Sydney and Brisbane (Newcastle Area). 
The recommendation of the study group was that the national highway in the vicinity of Newcastle should be on the western side of Lake Macquarie. Meanwhile under section 2.1 (c) and 2.1 (d) of this report the group recommended that the section between Nords Wharf and Swansea- Nords Wharf is a little north of Doyalson should be upgraded in a limited way to provide for increases in traffic until such time as a new route west of the lake diverts substantial traffic from the Pacific Highway. The report recommended that this upgrading of the Pacific Highway to a lower standard of geometric design than if it were to continue to be a national highway should be carried out as a matter of urgency. Since then the Department of Main Roads, as it has done under previous governments in New South Wales, has stonewalled on this proposal. The matter really in dispute is how much money it can get from the Federal Government. The Bureau of Roads has recommended $2m based on 1975-76 prices. The proposition which the DMR wants would have cost more than $13m. Since then consultations have been held between officers of the State and Federal Departments of Transport. I understand that a figure of $10. 7m has now been developed. 
The point that the honourable member for Newcastle and I want to emphasise is that, if $ 10.7m is spent on upgrading the DoyalsonSwansea section of the Pacific Highway, the national highway on the western side of Lake Macquarie will never be built. We appreciate that there is an urgent need to upgrade the existing section of the Pacific Highway. Lives are being lost. The cost of upgrading is rising continually. We ask the Minister for Transport to discuss with the Minister for Transport in New South Wales further alternative propositions which will lead to an immediate urgent upgrading of that section at some figure between that recommended by the Bureau of Roads and that which the Department of Main Roads is seeking. We ask the Federal Minister for Transport to impress upon the New South Wales Government the urgent need to commence the national highway west of Lake Macquarie. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Transport relates to the wide media coverage which has been given to proposals for cut price air fares between Australia and Europe and the considerable confusion that has arisen as to the possible impact of such proposals on the price, quality and frequency of international air services. I ask: Has the Minister been approached by the governments of the nations in which the proposers are located? If so, what has been his response? In the interests of air service consumers, will the Minister expand the current review of domestic air policy to embrace the price, provision and availability of international air passenger services? If so, will he ensure that the review be by way of a public inquiry so that all the facts involved can be made available to the community? 
I immediately refute the claim of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  that technology exists to dispose of nuclear waste. That is the same irresponsible claim that was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during a national broadcast on 28 August. It is completely untrue. The honourable member for the Northern Territory, the Prime Minister, the Government and its supporters know it to be untrue. That claim is indicative of their approach to the quality of this national discussion on what is in reality the most important subject ever to be discussed by politicians or parliamentarians in the history of the universe. The discussion about uranium is about survival, about whether there is to be a human race in the years to come; about whether the people who now live on this globe and who have access to control over uranium resources and the benefits which may flow from the mining and marketing of them are to benefit in their lifetimes at the expense of the survival of generations in the future. 
The remarks made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory were in line with the hypocrisy of the National Country Party members when talking about left wing pressure. It is claimed that every view that the Opposition takes which differs from the National Country Party view is the result of left wing pressure. I do not know how the honourable member for the Northern Territory would describe the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  Is he a left wing communist supporter of the Government? He sat on the Government side. He was a Minister in a Liberal and National Country 
Party government. Perhaps a Government supporter will answer that question for us later in this debate. 
The honourable member for Hotham is far more humane than any member of the National Country Party. At least he has some concern for people and the possibilities for this globe in the future. 
The Opposition has developed its policy in the light of increased knowledge and understanding and a reassessment of national objectives in relation to uranium. How do the National Country Party and members of the Government explain away the election issue on uranium in Sweden? There was a change of government in that country. Uranium and the development of nuclear power stations was an issue at that election. It was not a socialist government that survived; it was a socialist government that was defeated. Where was the left wing influence, the smearing that is advanced in place of sensible argument, on the result of that election? Where is the explanation of developments in France? If there is one nation which is said to be dependent on the use of uranium it is France. How do Government supporters explain away the development within France where there is so much higher national awareness of the need for new energy resources? How do honourable members opposite explain away opposition in France to the expansion of nuclear technology? 
How do they explain away the development in West Germany, one of the most industrialised nations, of the campaign against continued use of nuclear power? The Labor Party does not hold the power in that country. We are not influencing the German community. That debate has been developed and carried on in Germany not by the rabble-rousers, as the National Country Party in this place would like to call all its opponents, but by people who can reasonably be classified as the upper middle class, the intelligentsia of West Germany. Why is fear being expressed by that level of the community, not by the uneducated but by those who are articulate and have access to education and access to information? They are leading the movement in West Germany against the development and continued expansion of nuclear technology. Why is the debate developing in the United States of America on similar lines? 
If in each of those nations public concern and fear is developing about a continued expansion of nuclear technology then surely in Australia we should be re-examining all the factors involved in the mining and usage of uranium and the disposal of nuclear waste. A Country Party leader in earlier years warned the Country Party to stop selling the farm, but the attitude of the National Country Party in respect of uranium at present still conflicts with that advice from one of its former leaders,  Mr McEwen.  Members of the National Country Party would still sell the farm. They would still sell this land as long as they could get a dollar out of it in their lifetime. They are not concerned about the long term benefits to the people. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  which said: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: this House rejects the Government's precipitate decision, without sufficient public debate in Australia and negotiation overseas, to renew the mining and export of uranium by Australia in the absence of: 
commitments by customer countries to apply effective and verifiable safeguards against the diversion of Australian uranium from peaceful nuclear purposes to military nuclear purposes, 
international safeguards which will ensure that the export of Australian uranium will not contribute to the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the increased risk of nuclear war, 
procedures for the storage and disposal of radioactive wastes which will eliminate any danger posed by such wastes to human life and the environment, and 
adequate measures to safeguard the environment and national parks and protect Aboriginal rights and interests. 
I want to draw your attention,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to a remark made by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for the Northern Territory. He referred to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs as the Department of Ab. Affairs. The title he used was not correct, but the National Country Party seems to have little regard for Aborigines. Like other honourable members I have agonised long and hard over the advantages and dangers of the mining and use of uranium. On balance I believe that the policy adopted by the Australian Labor Party, the Opposition, is sound and that it puts the interests, particularly the long term interests, of all people of our country and the world before the material interests of the relative few who stand to benefit in the short term from the mining and use of uranium. 
On 25 August we witnessed a ministerial extravanganza when various Ministers presented their policy statements. I have no doubt that the majority of the community would have liked to have known much more about the dangers of uranium before the Government made a decision. The course followed by the Fraser Government has been to pre-empt adequate public discussion by announcing its decision to authorise the export of uranium. In the iterim we have seen an extensive media campaign mounted by the Uranium Producers Forum in an attempt to convince people that there are no real dangers involved in the use of uranium, that it is just another energy source, or in the disposal of nuclear waste: that the mass of the people will benefit from uranium by increased employment opportunities, by social welfare benefits and economic activity. Much of what has been broadcast has been downright deception and downright dishonest. It does little credit to the public figures who allowed themselves to be used in those advertisements put on by the Uranium Producers Forum. To add insult to injury it is probable that by one means or another the cost of those advertisements will be claimed as tax deductible expenses by the companies concerned. In effect the taxpayer is paying  42Vi  per cent to  46  per cent of the cost of the campaign being waged on television and in the newspapers by the UPF. The uranium debate boils down to the simple conclusion that it is the greed for material gain of a small number of people in their lifetime taking precedence over the risk to survival of the human race. It is as simple as that, and to the people in the street who have taken the time to think about it, it is as simple as that. Increasing numbers of Australians are recognising the issues. 
There are serious hazards involved in the peacetime use of uranium. It may be that the peacetime use of uranium is inevitable but before that decision is taken we must identify and overcome those hazards. The Fraser Government along with the industry have sought to play down the dangers associated with the peacetime use of uranium. They have by means of" jazzy advertisements sought to lull people into a false sense of security. 'It is no different from switching on an electric light' is the kind of thing one is asked to consider when comparing uranium with electricity. That is the impression that advertisements seek to give. The Government has made the choice of material gain for a few in their lifetime at the risk of the lives of many in generations to come providing, of course, that the present generation survives. Honourable members opposite have adopted a sell now, worry later policy 
One of the most serious problems in the debate is the disposal of nuclear waste. The Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community 
Development  (Mr Newman)  abdicated completely any responsibility he had in this matter when he said on  25  August in this chamber, as recorded at page  670  of  Hansard: 
The disposal of nuclear waste and the potential environmental problems which this could pose have been matters of public concern. The responsibility for disposing, in an environmentally responsible manner, of waste arising from nuclear power generation in countries abroad, is a matter for those countries which generate electricity by nuclear means. There is no intention of Australia storing other countries' radioactive waste. 
In other words, we will take the money and they will take the worry. We are not concerned with the problem of disposing of the waste. If they want to buy uranium they can worry about disposing of the waste. It is a most irresponsible attitude for the Minister to take. He has wiped his hands of concern for the future of humanity. However, the Prime Minister went one step further in his national broadcast on  28  August when he said in relation to nuclear waste disposal: 
Let me emphasise as forcefully as I can that here the scientific knowledge does exist. The technology does exist. The scientific knowledge and technology have been applied to the problem of waste. The technology is known. 
That was a deliberate untruth. It was a selective quote from the Commission's report. He has deliberately sought to misrepresent the true position regarding the disposal of nuclear waste. The disposal of waste from the use of uranium is an issue which goes to the fundamental survival of the human race, but the Prime Minister is prepared to deliberately misrepresent the facts on this subject. His claim is refuted by the finding of the Commission which stated: 
There is at present no generally accepted means by which high level waste can be permanently isolated from the environment and remain safe for very long periods. 
Like the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Prime Minister emphasised that Australia would not store nuclear waste. As I said earlier, we are prepared to take the money from the sale of uranium but we are not prepared to accept any responsibility for the disposal or neutralisation of the nuclear waste from the use of uranium. 
I turn now to some of the fallacies that have been developed in the case put by the Government and those in the UPF. A great deal has been said about the position of Japan. It is said that Japan must have nuclear energy if Japan is to survive. I think that the most important consideration on this globe is that humanity survives. That has to be the predominant consideration. Certainly Japan would like to buy nuclear energy but what Japan is really seeking to do is to diversify on the one hand her types of energy and on the other hand the sources of those various types of energy. Nuclear energy happens to be one of those types of energy. Some may ridicule what I am saying in this regard but I base my views on information I gathered on a recent visit to Japan. There are 11 nuclear power stations in Japan, only three of which are operative. Let us place ourselves in Japan's position. After having been through the 1973 energy crisis when Japan was held to ransom by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Is it not reasonable and responsible from the Japanese point of view that Japan should seek now to diversify her types of energy so that she will not be too much dependent on any one type of energy or on any one country or group of countries for a particular type of energy? That is what Japan is seeking to do. It is responsible and we can understand it. But it is irresponsible to try to put a case in this country that we have to market and mine uranium because Japan has to have it and cannot survive without it. It is just one of the options available to Japan and other countries but there is a much wider decision to be made and many other factors have to be taken into consideration. 
I deplore the statements made by members of the National Country Party in this Parliament to the effect that if we do not sell uranium to Japan, Japan will come and get it. I am sorry for the members of the National Country Party because that is not the view that was taken by other members of the National Country Party m years gone by. It is a reversion to the views of governments similar to this Government in earlier years when we had statements such as 'AH the way with LB J', and the statement of former Prime Minister Gorton 'If I lay down and you tickle my tummy you can have whatever resources or investment in this country you want'. The Opposition does not subscribe to that view. We believe that Australia has to put a view in relation to our resources that best protects the interests of Australians in the future. To propose that if we do not sell uranium to Japan, Japan will come and get it indicates such a degree of subservience and such a complete lack of national character that those who make that suggestion ought to have a good look at themselves. 
It has been said that underdeveloped countries need uranium. Underdeveloped countries may need energy but uranium will be a high priced form of energy, so it is fallacious to suggest that we will be helping underdeveloped countries by mining uranium. The profits from uranium mining will not go to underdeveloped countries. Such countries will not be able to afford to buy it, so that argument is fallacious. I have been impressed over recent weeks by comments made to me by ordinary people. I have been surprised that they have come generally from people in the higher age group who tend to be conservative in their views. They have expressed their very serious concern for the welfare of their children and their grandchildren and for the future of humanity. I am influenced to a great degree by their views. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  attempted to describe the attitude of the Opposition to some measures of the Government as contemptible, particularly the action, I assume, of the voluntary health insurance funds in distributing information in relation to the Government's proposed measures to withdraw the private hospital subsidy and to increase rates of health insurance in respect of nursing homes. It is interesting to recall that they are the organisations that helped to get this Government into office. If my recollection is correct, they worked very hard for the National Country Party of Australia and provided that party with staff and material. 
I am rather suspicious of the attack today by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  upon the private health insurance funds of Victoria and Tasmaniahe forgot to mention New South Wales because the same thing is happening there. It would seem, given the very close association of those funds, the National Country Party and senior members of the present Government, that there is definitely some truth in the claim of those private health insurance funds that the Government does propose to withdraw the subsidy for private hospitals and to increase the rates of contribution for health insurance or insurance cover in respect of nursing homes. 
-If that is the opinion of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  of the National Country Party I am quite happy to accept his remark because I am referring to the past performance and relationships of that party of which the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is the leader. The Government is responsible for the state of the economy and it does not help the people who are in need or who are unemployed to hear the kinds of remarks that were made by the honourable member for Isaacs. After all, we are now in a period of newspeak', where the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  uses the words 'reform' and responsible' with a new kind of meaning. Reform' is a word that has a good connotation about it. It indicates the development of something progressive, some new move that brings benefit to the community. But 'reform' used by this Government is a euphemism for regression, a euphemism for turning back the clock. That is happening in respect of the tax changes the Government has described as tax reforms. In effect the changes represent a major shift in the burden of taxation from the higher income groups to the lower income groups. The Prime Minister is the best example of a person in the higher income group. He benefits by $60 per week in reduced tax commitment as compared with a man on $ 1 47 per week who receives about a $1.80 a week reduction in tax. Those figures are the Government's own figures, not the Opposition's, and that is the kind of tax reform introduced by the Government. The Government's interpretation of the word 'reform' is opposite to the meaning described in the Oxford Dictionary. 
The other word used by the Government is 'responsible'. For that word it has substituted something meaning insensible and insensitivity. Both of these words will fit although they each have different meanings. How any Government supporter, particularly the honourable member for Isaacs, could genuinely claim that the Government is aware and sensitive of the needs and hardship that it is creating in the community is beyond belief. I wish Government supporters would go to some of the outer metropolitan areas of the cities or to Newcastle and talk to some of the unemployed shipyard workers who are now walking the streets looking for work. They should talk to some members of the broken families who are now unable to get work, where husbands and wives have separated because the family income has dropped so low they cannot meet commitments and they have no prospect of getting work. They should talk to men who have never been out of work in their lives before. 
I would like to instance one other matter that came to my notice a few weeks ago as a result of the Government's reform of the school dental health scheme, a scheme that was intended to provide dental care for all children up to 1 5 years of age. The scheme that was implemented by  Dr Everingham  as Minister for Health in the Whitlam Government to provide dental clinics in schools and to train nurses to staff the clinics has been severely cut because of the withdrawal of government funding and because the present Government has reduced the share of the cost that it wishes to bear. 
I mention the case of a constituent, a young woman with two children. This woman is separated from her husband because of a breakup that occurred after the husband became unemployed. The woman 's four-year old son has a pain in his mouth. The mother thought he had a sore tooth so she went to a private dentist. He examined the child's mouth and told the mother that the child had an abscess and that the cost of treatment would be $140. She did not have $140 nor could she enter into debt for that amount. She did not know what to do and the child had to suffer for three days. After three days she learned that there was a school dental clinic in Newcastle, a clinic that is being wound down as a result of the Government's programs. The child was taken to the clinic and the abscess removed. This is the kind of thing about which the Government is so insensitive and about which it claims to be responsible. 
In addressing my remarks to this debate on the 1977-78 Budget, the second Budget of this Government, I want to emphasise that never in recent political memory has a Budget been so quickly exposed for the sham and fraud that this one is and so quickly repudiated by the Australian community. This Budget reinforces the strategy of the first Fraser Budget that has brought higher inflation, higher taxation, record unemployment, reduced real incomes and depressed economic activity. At every stage this Government has sought to create scapegoats, to blame its own ineptitude and incompetence on someone else or some other group as it has bumbled along. The trade union movement, the latest anti uranium movement, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the Prices Justification Tribunal, and the Industries Assistance Commission are some of those bodies the Prime Minister has sought to blame for his own incompetence and that of his colleagues. Along with that the Prime Minister has sought to blame certain individuals. 
It needs to be remembered that this Government came to office on a campaign of deception and divisiveness designed to set Australian against Australian. The Government is a corrupt government and in office it has continued its campaign of divisiveness and provocation. We need only to recall how the Australian domestic airlines- and it is coincidental that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is at the table- were grounded for a week by the deliberate acts of provocation by the Prime Minister and by the Minister at the table which brought about the air traffic controllers strike. This was a strike that was never intended to happen, a strike that never should have happened and a strike that would not have happened but for the decided and determined provocation of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport. 
Let me recall the words of a member of this House who at one time was concerned about the division in the community and the need for unity and national outlook and consensus. He said: 
Are we so blind that we cannot read the writing on the wall? Are we going to allow this country to divide, to polarise? Are we going to allow issues to develop in this country that will split our people? Or are we going to seek to find and follow avenues of moderation on both sides in the interests of a united Australia moving forward in our times? 
These were the words spoken by the Minister for Transport during the Address-in-Reply debate on 12 March 1974. That extract exposes the hypocrisy of his Government and its Ministers because since coming to office it has pursued a policy of confrontation and crisis in an attempt to conceal its own incompetence. The Prime Minister's second Budget is a continuation of the cruel strategy of the first- a prescription for continued high level unemployment, reduced assistance to those in genuine need and economic stagnation. 
Let me quickly advert to the transport estimates within the Budget. Overall transport has been a casualty in this Budget. The Minister for Transport is so strong in other areas within the Cabinet but he is weak in getting money for his own portfolio. He was a party to the proposal to increase the price of petrol by 1 lc per gallon, and this will increase cost pressures on all services but particularly transport services. 
There is a reduction in real terms over the whole range of other services. The expenditure allocated for urban public transport represents a 25 per cent reduction on actual expenditure in the previous year when considered in real terms. The present Government has lost the opportunity in this Budget of providing a stimulus to manufacturing industry by pushing additional money into an urban public transport program for the construction of rolling stock and passenger stock. Total expenditure for the Department this year is to be $870m, an increase of $35. 8m in cash terms but a reduction of 8 per cent in real terms. The appropriation for road funds is $475m. Again in cash terms this represents an increase of $33.3m but a decrease of 3 per cent in real terms when compared with expenditure for the previous year. Likewise the allocation for road safety had been decreased. The appropriation in 1976-77 was $900,000 but in this year it is $790,000. 
I mentioned that the opportunity has been lost to provide a stimulus to the economy in the urban public transport sector. It is in the manufacturing centres, particularly those in the metropolitan areas, where that lost opportunity is being felt most in terms of increased unemployment. We all recall that the conservatives who sit opposite promised that they would dramatically reduce inflation. Their failure to do so represents the most glaring breach of their promises. Inflation for the year ended June 1977 was 13.4 per cent. I am using accurate figures not the 'newspeak' figures, not the underlying figures. I am not disregarding the party that people do not want to hear about. The rate of inflation was 13.4 per cent compared with a rate of 12.3 per cent for the year ended June 1976. The Government, by its own actions in the past year, increased inflation by over one per cent. 
The Budget Papers revealed that the increase in inflation has been higher in each of the six months of the Fraser Government than it was in the last six months of the Whitlam Government. Treasury figures reveal that the underlying rate of inflation, the new speak definition which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is so fond of insisting is falling, has in fact jumped by some 47 per cent in the last sue months. Every major action taken by the Government has exacerbated inflation. I refer to such things as the increase in health insurance costs, the new compulsory health insurance tax, the massive devaluation of the dollar, and the 11c per gallon increase in petrol prices which will add to prices across the board and hit people in country towns worst of all. Large companies will be able to pass on the increase in company tax to consumers in the form of higher prices but it will mean further pressure on the liquidity position of small companies and small business people. 
We all recall the contempt that the National Country Party and the conservatives had for small business in ali those years prior to 1975. In 1968 they commissioned an inquiry into small business and it took three years to complete the report. When they received the report they sat on it until after the change of government. The Labor Government tabled that report in 1973 and established the National Small Business Bureau. That shows the true record of their concern for small business. They used small business as a gimmick but they quickly dropped it. They are concerned to protect major corporations. 
The Prime Minister's view is that life was not meant to be easy and he is implementing that belief. He has converted that saying to make it read: 'Life will not be easy'. I noticed in one of the records of an interview that he gave that he considers himself lucky. We have seen his behaviour. Living standards are declining and there is increasing unemployment but we have seen a lavish display of personal extravagance on the part of the Prime Minister and his Ministers. This Government paid $9,000 for a new dinner set for the Lodge but we cannot get $9,000 for a regional employment development program in the Hunter Valley. This Government has spent $16,000 on a specially built custom model Chrysler motor vehicle for the Prime Minister but we cannot get $16,000 for the shipbuilding industry.' The Government is spending $250,000 on renovations to the Lodge because - 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1 977: 
1 ) Has the Bureau of Transport Economics undertaken a study of transport services in the Northern Territory. 
If so, when does he expect the report to be completed. 
Will he undertake to table the report. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 197S to 30 June 1976 and (b) I July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part (1) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and subdivision numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and subdivision numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What is the name and classification of each officer of his Department who travelled overseas or is scheduled to travel overseas during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 on duties associated with (i) overseas visits by the Prime Minister, (ii) overseas visits by him, (iii) overseas visits by any other Ministers and (iv) overseas visits for any other purpose. 
What charges were made against his Department's estimates in respect of each of those officers under the categories listed in part ( 1) by way of (a) cost of travel, (b) cost of accommodation and (c) other costs. 
What amounts were recovered or are to be recovered from other departments in respect of those officers, and in respect of what activities by those officers on behalf of other departments were the amounts recovered or are expected to be recovered. 
Were funds set aside in the Department's estimates in each of the relevant periods for expenditure of this nature; if so, what were the amounts provided and what were the division and sub-division numbers. 
If funds were not set aside in the Department's estimates, from what source were the expenditures paid showing division and sub-division numbers. 
From whom were the requests for duties to be carried out on behalf of other departments, including the Prime Minister's Department, received and when. 
-I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: Is it a fact that employers applying for the training subsidy under the Special Youth Employment Training Program are not required to provide information concerning the position for which they are claiming the subsidy or to give an assurance that it is in addition to their work force? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that some employers are abusing this program by sacking existing employees, including non-indentured apprentices, and replacing them with young persons under the conditions of the program in order to gain the $63 a week subsidy? Is it not a fact that an employer can give notice to an employee and apply for the subsidy on the same day? Has this in fact occurred? Will the Minister give an assurance that applicant employers will be required to provide evidence that they are increasing their work force when they apply for the subsidy so as to protect persons currently employed and to ensure that taxpayers' money is used responsibly by this Government? 
-The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $30.3 lm to the States for upgrading urban public transport under the terms of the Urban Public Transport Agreement. The period to be covered is 1977-78. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. The second and, I suspect, the last Lynch Budget provides an allocation of $51m to the States for urban public transport projects. This means that the remaining $20.69m will come from existing appropriations. That is, nearly half the money allocated for urban public transport in this year s Budget will have been allocated in previous years. 
Honourable members will recall that when we debated last year the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill which provided for $20m in terms of last year's Budget, I pointed out that the entries shown in Budget Paper No. 4, which was one of the Budget documents, differed from the information provided in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  At that time I said that the $20m being appropriated under that Bill would not be used for the year 1976-77, and that in fact the funds to be expended in 1976-77 would be drawn from existing appropriations. At the time I asked the Minister to clarify the issue but he did not see tit to do so.' 
I draw the attention of the House to page 38 of Budget Paper No. 4 for 1977-78 where again the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1976 is shown as the source of funds to be used in the current year. What in fact happened in the past financial year is that the funds that were expended were drawn from the appropriations that existed and a balance of $690,672 was left. It is worth noting for the information of the House that the $51 m for urban public transport mentioned by the Minister in his second reading speech will be made up as follows: $690,672 will be drawn from the balance of the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974, $20m will come from the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1976 and $30.3 lm will come from this Bill if in fact the money is spent. I just say, in conclusion on that point, that, as I said at the time, irrespective of what the Minister said in his second reading speech the Treasury would determine from what sources and in what manner the funds would be expended, and that is in fact what occurred. 
The allocation of $51m this year reveals just how false the Fraser Government's selfacclaimed interest in public transport is and the declining priority accorded to public transport services by this Government. A pittance of $5m is provided for new projects. This relatively paltry amount for new projects is the first allocation for new urban public transport projects made in nearly two years of Fraserism. The Minister for Transport admits in his second reading speech that this is 'a relatively minor amount'. He then goes on to reveal the priority accorded to urban public transport by his Government when he states that the allocation 'is a clear indication of the commitment this Government has to ensure urban public transport services are upgraded'. The scant amount is a clear indication that the Fraser Government has little commitment to urban public transport. 
There is little doubt that if this corrupt, conservative Government had not been locked into continuing expenditure under the terms of the Labor Government's urban public transport legislation no funds would have been provided during its period in government to alleviate urban public transport problems. This year of the $51m allocated $ 18.27m is provided to continue work on projects approved by the Whitlam Government. An amount of $27. 73m is allocated to meet the cost increases on approved projects. That is, more than half the amount provided in the Lynch Budget will go towards compensating for the loss of value in the dollar as a result of this Government's incompetence and inability to deal with inflation. The policy put forward by the Liberal and National Country Parties at the 1975 election in respect of public transport stated: 
A Liberal-Country Party Government will assist the States to modernise their public transport systems. 
However, the funds provided in the second Lynch Budget for urban public transport represent a cut of $7.4m in cash terms and a fall of 25 per cent in real terms over actual expenditure for 1976-77. There then is the evidence of the strength of this Government's commitment to urban public transport. The abysmal amount provided for urban public transport will do little in the reasonably near future to assist State governments to remedy the chronic deficiencies that exist in public transport systems in our major cities. It will do little to provide a public transport service for those areas of our cities that do not have access to public transport services. It will do little for the young, the old, the handicapped and the poor who have to use whatever form of public transport service is available. 
This Government needs to be reminded that people living in urban sectors of our major metropolitan areas are captives of congested roads and deteriorating or non-existent transport services which impair personal mobility thus limiting access to job opportunities, cultural and recreational facilities. The Government has consistently pursued a policy over decades of driving a wedge between country dwellers and urban dwellers for cheap political purposes. It has sought to show urban dwellers as being pampered and as having access to all the better facilities of urban life. The fact is that many urban dwellers, because of the lack of adequate and /or reasonably priced transport services, experience a loneliness far greater than that or the country dweller. There is no loneliness greater than that of the big city when one does not have access to communication and transport that one can afford. The quality of urban public transport services then is a major determinant in the life style of millions of urban Australians. 
The Sydney public transport system carries 80 per cent of the work force in the Sydney central business district. But this area represents only 20 per cent of the total work force in the Sydney region. Increasingly the real challenge is in providing public transport services which service both the central business district traveller and the inter-urban commuter. Changes in the approach to public transport services are required to cope with the increasing number of cross-suburban trips resulting from the rising numbers of employment opportunities and other services being created at locations away from the central city area. Poor land use planning in the past has contributed to the difficulties faced by public transport authorities today. Land development decisions in the past were in too many cases made on the basis of what profits could be made from the land development process without regard to the provision of effective transport and communication services. The resultant deficiencies are then left to be remedied by governments and the public purse. 
As a nation we have, in consultation with the States, to find the solutions to public transport problems created by lack of planning and lack of bresight in the past. For the future there should be a collective approach on the part of the three levels of government- national, State and local i;government-to consult and ensure that by good and use planning and full utilisation of existing public investment in transport we can avoid the types of problems and deficiencies that have arisen in the past. 
I turn now to the increasing importance of energy consumption in transport and the decline in real terms- I mentioned the 25 per cent reduction in 1976- of finance provided for urban public transport by this Government. This decline in Federal funds must be seen against the background of the Fraser Government's decision to raise the price of petrol by 1 lc a gallon. Almost 27 per cent of our national energy consumption goes to the transport sector. Over 88 per cent of direct transport energy is supplied by petroleum products. Use of the pricing mechanism to conserve energy supplies assumes that users have alternative transport means available. This is a false assumption, as many Australians are using private motor cars because they must. Increased petrol prices will mean for them a reduction in real disposable income. 
The changes in energy pricing announced in the Budget will yield the Treasury an extra $180m this financial year. The Government's action in increasing petrol prices could be understood to some extent if a major share of that additional revenue were to be spent on the creation and upgrading of urban public transport services, thus reducing the need to use private motor cars. However, as I mentioned earlier, this Bill provides a miserable pittance of $5m for new projects. That is less than 3 per cent of the increase in additional revenue that will come from the increase of 1 lc per gallon in the price of petrol. Bearing in mind the determined and successful efforts of the Leader of the National Country Party, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony),  over the past three years to heavily increase petrol prices, one can understand why less than 3 per cent of that additional revenue is going to the area to which it ought to be directed. Much more than 3 per cent should have been directed to improving and upgrading urban transport services. We have no indication from this Government to date that any of the balance of the $ 1 80m to be collected from the increase in petrol prices is to be applied to public transport. 
Adequate funding for urban public transport is an urgent task. It is not something that can be deferred or delayed any longer. Governments cannot simply increase the cost of the operation of motor cars and the ownership of motor cars in the expectation that this action will discourage the use of private cars without providing alternatives to the private motor car. The Deputy Prime Minister has admitted in this chamber that the demand for petroleum products is more or less price inelastic. In other words, relatively large movements in the price of petrol will have little effect on the demand for petrol or petroleum products. 
The rapid expansion of urban areas since the Second World War has greatly contributed to the reliance on the private car and consequently has meant higher transport energy usage. A 1 975 study prepared by the Bureau of Transport Economics stated: . . . recent trends in urbanisation have contributed to higher transport energy usage by encouraging reliance on the private car and an increase in average trip lengths. 
It is evident from the study that petrol prices would have to rise considerably to change existing use patterns.  Major, price  rises would be required to cause a significant alteration in the use of cars. A true energy conservation program needs to recognise the interrelationships of public transport services, the use of the private car and energy conservation procedures. For example, an overseas study into the efficiency of energy use of common transport modes found that diesel-powered buses are the most energy efficient.  Mr Louis  Fouvy of the Victorian Ministry of Transport has indicated some of the ways in which economies could be achieved in transport energy usage. These include the design and maximum use of transport services and vehicles which make efficient use of energy. One example which I just mentioned is diesel buses. Secondly, he mentioned the adoption of land use development policies which minimise transport requirements or the development of low energy means of communication to replace and so minimise the need for travel and transport. In this instance I am referring to technology such as the proposed videophones. Instead of a family travelling by car from Newcastle to Sydney to visit relatives they could ring them on the videophone and see them as they spoke to them. The third means suggested by  Mr Fouvy  is something which ought to be given greater priority. It ought to be taken into consideration in assessing where we are going and planning for urban public transport in the future. 
Clearly, the quality and availability of urban public transport services will have an important role to play in any responsible national energy conservation plan. It is regrettable that the Government, in providing for a reduction in real terms in urban public transport funds, is abandoning urban public transport services as an essential part of energy conservation plans. Its petrol price increase of 1 lc per gallon will provide a windfall gain of $109m for the oil companies and $180m for consolidated revenue and thus help pay for the VIP trips to the opera, the $9,000 dinner set and the international safaris undertaken every 1 1 weeks by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
-The Opposition has sought to assess and identify the full cost of these international safaris undertaken at the taxpayers' expense but to date the Government has successfully managed to conceal it amongst the estimates of the various departments. This cost ought to be shown in total when questions are placed on notice seeking the true cost of these international safaris. I mention those points only as a side reference to highlight the priorities shown .by this Government. On the one hand the Government will get increased revenue from the motorist; on the other hand the motorist will pay more and get less. If the urban public transport traveller uses a taxi he will pay more in fares but will get less in terms of expansion and improvement in the quality of urban public transport. 
Expansion of public investment in urban public transport systems would have provided a much needed stimulus to employment opportunities. Not only would the injection of funds into the State urban systems have generated employment through the purchase of equipment for urban systems but also the improved public transport systems available would have given better access to job opportunities. This is a problem which has emerged when we have been trying to help people who are unemployed as a result of this Government's policies. I refer to the inadequacy of reasonably priced transport to get to the few jobs that may be available. 
The point I am trying to stress is that urban public transport expenditure provides a means whereby the Government can improve the quality of life in our urban and outer suburban areas while at the same time it can provide a much needed stimulus to the economy, particularly to heavy manufacturing industry which manufactures rolling stock, rail cars and locomotives. In this respect I have noticed that honourable members from Queensland who support this Government, particularly those from the Brisbane area, have been very quiet about the declining employment available in the heavy manufacturing industries in Brisbane, particularly those industries that in the past produced some of the finest rolling stock and locomotives constructed for use in Australia and for export. Employment could have been generated in the field of the manufacture of rolling stock as well as in the electrification of urban railway lines. There would have been a substantial multiplier effect from increased expenditure in those areas. 
The Minister for Transport pointed out in his second reading speech that substantial Australian Government funds were involved in providing urban public transport infrastructure through public investment in airport and port facilities and urban roads. In 1974 the then Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  foreshadowed the introduction of legislation designed to bring urban public transport and road transport under one Bill. We have no demonstrated interest on the part of the Fraser Government in the interdependence of these urban transport services. I presume that a little later we will be discussing a roads Bill. In fact both this legislation and the roads legislation could have been combined and ought to have been combined. Certainly they ought to have been considered at the one time. The allocation of resources and the utilisation of existing public investment, and the direction and quantity of future public investment, in all types of urban transport services ought to be considered at the one time and not considered piecemeal or in an ad hoc fashion as is happening under the present Government. This is a signal of the return to the ad hockery of the past. 
No moves have been made by the Government to consider airport and port facilities in the light of existing urban public transport services. Under the Fraser Government, reviews of aviation are kept secret and separate from other transport systems, particularly from the Parliament. No indication is given of the degree of inter-relationship and of the potential demand in the future for additional transport services. Anybody concerned with transport, anybody concerned with travelling, anybody who is a consumer of transport services, is very well aware of the close relationship of transport to and from airports and to and from railway stations. These services cannot operate in isolation and governments should not be considering their roles in isolation. Any public investment ought to take into account the inter-relation of those different activities. By doing that we will get a maximum efficiency in the use of the taxpayers' dollar. We have heard from the other side of the House a great deal about the taxpayer's dollar but we see very little evidence of efficient utilisation of the funds which the taxpayer so readily provides to this Government. 
The Government's inquiry into federal transport undertakings was segregated from other transport sectors. One of our major domestic airlines which generates demand for transport to and from airports and which is competitive with other government transport undertakings and suppliers to transport undertakings is being examined in the seclusion of a secret committee. We also have an inquiry into overseas airlines at the same time and by the same people, as well as an investigation of our Railways Commission and of our shipping line. All four activities are related and are all part of the public transport scene. Additionally, the operations of private companies providing taxi and private bus services have to be taken into consideration. It was for those reasons that between 1972 and 1975 the Labor Government was moving towards the preparation of an integrated transport budget so that all the factors involved could be brought under consideration and looked at in the one picture, then fitted together to provide a maximum in the quality of services and a maximum in the efficient manner in which the dollar is spent. Under this Government the moves towards co-ordination of transport services in Australia have been reversed by the introduction of this Bill. Each mode of transport will continue to be considered in isolation of other transport functions. A recent gallup poll revealed that inadequate public transport services and traffic congestion were the major causes of local dissatisfaction among Australians living in both rural and suburban areas. In 1974 the Bureau of Roads provided comparative figures on the costs of running private motor vehicles and public transport systems for both passenger and freight traffic. The Bureau stated that the purchase of motor vehicles, the cost of their operation, the cost of road maintenance and capital investment represented a total cost of $4,220m. The total cost of the operation of trams, buses and trains and capital investment was $1,1 85m. These are direct costs and do not include indirect costs of road accidents or the cost of traffic policing and management. 
The impact which transport costs have on the household budget of the average family is shown in figures provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics survey on household expenditure. These are actual costs and not percentages but they give a clear indication of the greater impact which transport costs have on the low income family compared with the high income family. A household with two adults and one child with an income of under $80 weekly spends $16.37 per week on transport costs, that is passenger movement and the transport input in the cost of commodities. The same sized family with an income of $340 per week spends $38.42 per week. So the high income family, which receives more than four times the income of the low income family, spends on transport only a little more than twice that spent by the low income family. Now let us consider a household with two adults and two children with an income of under $80 per week. It pays $21.95 per week in transport costs. However, the same sized family with an income of more than $340 per week pays $34.16 per week, an increase of a little over 50 per cent in the transport cost component although this family has an income more than four times that of the family with an income of under $80 per week. 
The need for immediate improvements in our urban public transport system has never been more critical. If we are to avoid the impending transport crisis of the next decade it is vital that our urban public transport investment program begun in 1973 be restored. In summary I remind the House that whilst the Opposition does not oppose the Bill it emphasises that the Bill is proof of this Government's abandonment of the important role of urban public transport in energy conservation and the life style and opportunity of persons who depend upon urban public transport. 
-The States Grants (Roads) Bill 1977 is, in the main, a development and a refinement of the progressive roads legislation enacted by the Labor Government. At the same time the Bill provides $ 1,425m for expenditure on road construction and road maintenance during the triennium 1977-78 to 1979-80. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill but will be directing criticism at certain aspects of it and at the Fraser Government's priorities for funding of roads and associated transport matters. The general provisions of the Bill have been outlined by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech and in the explanatory notes that are available to honourable members. I will touch briefly on some of the provisions. I will emphasise some of the issues on which the Opposition believes this Government should have directed greater attention and provided a greater appropriation to promote a reduction in the record levels of unemployment and inflation brought about by its incompetent and irresponsible management of the economy. 
The Minister has stated that the $475m made available in 1977-78 will be treated as a base figure in real terms for the remaining two years of the triennium. He has said that the adjustments are based on movements in the implicit price deflator for private investment in other b uilding and construction and are as shown in the national accounts.  His  statement raises two points. Firstly, despite his assurances and statement of intention, we have only his word and the Government's expression of support that that undertaking will be carried out. Provision for the adjustment could have been and should have been written into the legislation. This may have caused some difficulties for the parliamentary draftsman, but it should have been done. Cooperation with the States and road authorities is based on confidence and trust. With a record list of broken promises by this Government, how can anyone seriously believe it? In 1975 we were told that Medibank would be maintained. 
Instead, it has been massacred. We were told that there would be jobs for all. Instead, we have record and increasing unemployment which the Minister assisting the Treasurer, the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  describes as a myth. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said that the promises made at the 1975 election were valid only in the context in which they were made- that is, they were invalid the day after the election. 
What raises serious doubt about the true intention of the Government on annual adjustments to road funds is the statement in the second speech of the Minister for Transport that the actual increase in each year will need to be finalised in the light of the overall budgetary and economic situation. That statement can be interpreted in a number of ways and is clearly ambiguous. I suggest to the Minister that he clarify it. 
The second point is the Government's choice of the implicit price deflator from the national accounts as the index on which to make the annual adjustment. It has rejected the Bureau of Roads recommendation that the road price index be used. The Bureau of Roads report for 1975 shows that inflation has had a greater effect on the cost of road construction and maintenance during the past three years than is shown by movements in the implicit price deflator. The road price index has risen at a much faster rate than the implicit price deflator from 1973 to 1976. Likewise, table 4.21 in the Bureau of Roads report shows the variation in measurement of cost increases from 1970 to 1975. That table appears at page 68 of the report . It shows the average annual growth rate from 1970 to 1975. The road price index rose by 13.6 per cent. The consumer price index rose by 9.4 per cent. The implicit gross national expenditure rose by 10.2 per cent. The implicit gross fixed capital expenditure deflator rose by 10.6 per cent. 
From 1973 to 1975 the variations are more marked. In that period the road price index rose by 23.3 per cent. The consumer price index rose by 14.8 per cent. The implicit gross national expenditure deflator rose by 15.8 per cent. The implicit gross fixed capital expenditure deflator rose by 17.2 per cent. The reasons for the variations are obvious. They are: The road industry has a higher labour content and has been severely affected by price increases in bituminous products following the 1973 oil price jump. The choice of the road price index as the method by which the Bureau of Roads recommended that adjustments be made to annual provisions for road funding is important. An examination of the report shows that the very high labour content of road construction is a main factor, along with the price of bituminous products. I quote from the report: 
Between 1966-67 and 1974-73 costs rose by more than 80 per cent in the industries concerned with gross fixed capital formation generally. Costs in the road industry rose by more than 100 per cent over the same period. Road costs rose even more markedly after the general upsurge in costs from 1972-73 on. Between 1971-72 and 1974-75, road casts increased some 62 per cent compared with 42 per cent for the general economy, 46 per cent for the gross fixed capital formation sector and 40 per cent for the consumer price index. 
Those figures, I believe, show that the costs of road construction and road maintenance rose at a much higher degree than costs in any other section of the community. Therefore the road price index would have been a much more appropriate measure of movements in road costs than the implicit price deflator. 
The Bill provides for State quotas totalling $4 18.8m for the current year, and for this amount to be indexed in subsequent years, along with grants from the Government. Authorisation clauses have been included to enable funds to be paid from either the Consoliated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund. The Bill also provides for the establishment of planning committees to develop and oversee long term road project expenditure. These will be established where the State Minister concerned and the Federal Minister agree. This initiative was advanced in the second reading speech as something new. It is not something new. It was well under development in 1975 in the period of office of the previous Government. It will be interesting to see how this system works. It is true that there have been difficulties with regard to the States not supplying the information they were required to supply to the Federal Minister during the first triennium. But the first triennium has to be judged in the light that the legislation was pioneer legislation in many ways. It was reasonable to expect that there would be difficulties in its actual implementation and the need for relationships and greater exchange of information to develop between the States and the national Government. 
In the debate on the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill I mentioned the importance of unemployment in relation to transport expenditure. I cannot go further in this debate without coming back to that point. Road construction and road maintenance are the best areas in which the Government could be acting to reduce unemployment and stimulate the economy if that is what it wanted to do. Quite clearly, there has been a deliberate decision on the part of the Government to increase unemployment, to superintend expanding unemployment and to leave the economy to find its own way out of the recession that has been forced upon it. I refer to table 6.10 of appendix 7 of the Bureau of Roads report. It relates to my earlier remarks about the labour content of road construction. The table set out on page 85 of that report gives an analysis of the percentage share of direct and indirect costs of roads and road transport in dollars expended. Forty-four per cent of expenditure of direct costs on roads goes to labour. When direct and indirect costs are taken together the figure rises to 64 per cent. 
If the Government wanted to stimulate the economy, if it really wanted to do something about unemployment, this is the area in which it would act. Regional pockets of unemployment could be mopped up. Areas of unemployment could be readily identified. Road construction and maintenance are permanent public works, particularly in the light of standards adopted by national government these days. Even though there would be an increase in expenditure the work would be worthwhile. It would rapidly generate employment. It would rapidly do something for the very difficult problem facing people in the regional areas who are unemployed. 
It is not good enough for government supporters to say: 'You want to spend more money'. We are not saying that. We are saying that unemployment is the first priority in this nation today. It is the most serious problem that we face. It deserves first priority in the expenditure of public moneys. While there is money for Utah, dinner sets, strawberries and VIP trips to the opera there certainly ought to be money for road construction which will reduce unemployment. The Bureau of Roads report shows that 64 per cent of every dollar spent on road construction and maintenance or in the road industry goes towards the employment of labour. The multiplier effect that would flow from that would be a substantial stimulus to the economy. 
I turn now to another area in which the Government could have acted in the composition of the funds which have been provided for the current triennium. That is the MITERS program. The MITERS program could have been expanded. The project costs are relatively low on an individual basis. They are labour intensive. They enhance safety standards. They augment public transport, the matter which we were discussing in the debate on the previous Bill. Something substantial could have been done in the areas of road construction and maintenance and the MITERS program not only to improve the quality of urban public transport services but also to make road intersections, road curves and roads themselves much safer by expanding expenditure under the MITERS program. The social benefits to flow from that program are quick and worthwhile. If, as I expect, the Government introduces a mini budget later this year I suggest to the Minister for Transport that this is a prime area in which additional dollars could be spent to save human lives and stimulate employment. 
The Minister's speech referred to intrusion into State affairs, allegedly by the previous Government. What the previous Government did in respect of transport expenditure was to try to bring all the pieces together so that there was proper utilisation of the Australian Transport Advisory Council and proper utilisation of transport expenditure. 
The interjection by the honourable member for Cowper indicates his own ignorance of what happened to transport expenditure in the last two years. Between 1976 and 1977 this Government reduced expenditure on urban public transport by 25 per cent in real terms. The reduction in road expenditure between last year and this year in real terms was between 3 per cent and 4 per cent depending on what measure one uses. The Australian Transport Advisory Council ought to be the forum where harmony is dispensed and where responsible State Ministers and this Government can meet and develop the goodwill which is necessary to find the solutions to our road problems. 
Unfortunately one reads regularly of the disputes, the brawls and the workouts which occur. I shall not refer to all the instances. This is the very antithesis of the way in which co-operative relations between State and Federal governments ought to work. It is no good the Minister in his second reading speech referring to consultation with the State governments when he delights in this place at Question Time in saying that he told the State Ministers for Transport what to do. If we are to get the kind of development that we need in the road transport area we have to have co-operation. I believe that cooperation can be achieved given goodwill and confidence. 
This Bill is, as I mentioned in respect of the earlier Bill, part of what should have been an integrated transport Bill. These two Bills should have been brought together. They have not been brought together. Now road expenditure is going its own way. Urban transport is going another way. Another more important category could have been introduced to combine these two areas. It could have been the bridge between public transport expenditure and road expenditure. That is the provision of special funds for road based public transport. The Federal Government could have given recognition to the costs and disabilities incurred by road based public transport. That form of public transport is directly related to proposed expenditure for road construction and maintenance. It is also directly related to the purchase of buses and the construction of interchanges and associated infrastructure and facilities. The inclusion of the road based public transport category in the Bill would have been a very useful bridge between the two areas of responsibility. Unfortunately, that will not happen in the current triennium. 
Another matter related to road construction is petrol prices. This has been referred to. I have to refer to it again because of its direct relevance and because it relates more to motor vehicles than to urban public transport. In short, what is happening is that motorists will pay more this year, more next year and a lot more in the third year to operate their cars. That is justified by the Government on the basis that it wants to reduce excessive use of petroleum products. They were the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech. I challenge the Government to identify for the community the excessive use of petroleum products in this country. It denies knowledge that many people in the Australian community use motor vehicles because they have to use them, because there is no alternative. If we are to have an energy conservation program it must take into account factors such as increased performance and reduced fuel consumption by motor vehicles. There will need to be incentives to produce smaller engines and more energy efficient motor vehicles, smaller motor vehicles m terms of size and better utilisation of motor vehicles on our roads. 
It is interesting to look at the statistics of motor vehicles on register over the past few years. At the end of June last year, there were 6.66 million motor vehicles registered in Australia. These comprised S.12 million motor cars and station wagons, 667,700 light commercial trucks, 543,800 trucks of one ton capacity and over, 29,200 buses and 295,700 motor cycles. If we look at the equivalent figures for 30 June 1972, we find that the total number of motor vehicles registered was 5.325 million. Therefore, over that four year period from June 1972 to June 1976, there has been a 25 per cent growth in the number of vehicles using our roads. Anyone who travels, for instance, on the Newcastle to Sydney road knows only too well the increase that has taken place in the number of heavy transport vehicles using that road and the increased demand for space on that road. From reports that I have studied I assume that this is the case in respect of other highways. At the end of June 1976, approximately 7 million drivers were licensed to drive motor vehicles. This is based on a reported figure of 6.157 million for all States, excluding Queensland, because Queensland does not provide any data in respect of the number of licensed motor vehicle drivers. Those figures show something of the increasing demand for road space. Road construction and road maintenance without regard to the increase in demand will not solve the problem. It will not save the human lives that could be saved by a better analysis and a better assessment of the needs of our roads based transport industries. 
I noted from the Minister's second reading speech the deletion of the beef roads category. I recall the difficulties the Minister experienced in Queensland recently in respect of the beef roads allocation. Just to highlight the confusion that exists in the Government ranks on that issue, I draw the attention of the House to a newspaper article. I have not had a chance to show it to the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  who is concerned in that report. The article which appears in  The Cattleman  of July 1977 is headed: 'No Axing on Beef Road Funds'. It seems to me that, according to the articles a Government supporter is saying exactly the opposite to what the Government and the Minister are saying in respect of beef roads. The article states: 

 Mr Braithwaite said there appeared to be some misunderstanding on the issue. 
The article says that the honourable member has reassured cattlemen that funds for beef roads have not been chopped off. Perhaps the honourable member was not aware of the new legislation and that there is no beef road classification or beef road category in this legislation. To be fair to the Government it should be pointed out that, whilst the beef road category is to be removed, there has been an expansion in rural arterial road funding and if the State governments want to provide additional funds for beef roads, they can draw the funds from that source. The article in  The Cattleman  also states: 
A multitude of State and Federal road classifications, each competing ... for funds, had previously been in existence. 
Surely the number of categories did not represent a 'multitude' of road classifications. The article continues: 
The decision to discontinue the beef road category was consistent with general principles supported by all States that the beef road categories specified in the new legislation should be reduced. 
The article went on to say.  . . . there were now two or three classifications for roads instead of a multitude. 
I have instanced that article simply to point out the confusion in the Government's own ranks as to what is proposed by the Government in respect of funding for roads and road maintenance and what is actual fact. 
There are more than two or three classifications of roads. Beef roads are not included and all States would not have agreed that they should be included because beef roads affect only one State- the State of Queensland. The Minister experienced difficulty in respect of the removal of the beef road classification for that State and the removal of identified funds for that area. 
In conclusion, the Bill, as I said earlier, embodies in a number of ways legislation that would have been introduced had there not been a change in government. The provision of $475m this year and the method by which it is to be indexed in following years is a matter that I believe, in the interests of State transport Ministers, ought to be clarified by the Federal Minister for Transport and should have been included in the legislation. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
-My grievance is the lavish extravagance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his coterie of Ministers. I want to preface my remarks by drawing attention to the expression of the Prime Minister that life was not meant to be easy. He is ensuring that life will not be easier in Australia. I remind the House also of his statement on 3 February this year when he said that Australians lived in a lucky country and took too much for granted. On another occasion he made this statement: 
We need a rugged society, but our new generations have seen only affluence. 
Those new generations are our young unemployed people. He continued: 
If a man has not known adversity, if in his lifetime his country has not been subject to attack, it is harder for him to understand that there are some things for which we must always struggle. 
Against the background of those statements we can well see why the Prime Minister is determined to provide an exercise in extravagance at the cost of the taxpayers, to the advantage of himself and his Ministers, and to ensure that hardship is directed onto the young people in the Australian community. The Budget recently presented in this chamber provided for a system of tax change, not tax reform. There was no reform. Changes were announced to the tax schedule which will result in persons earning under $147 a week receiving a tax cut of $1.70 a week while the Prime Minister will receive a tax cut of $60 a week. According to the schedule there will be $60 for the Prime Minister and less than $2 for the average person. The $60 that will go to the Prime Minister is more than 50 per cent higher than the rate of benefit paid to young unemployed people and this Government is determined to ensure that they remain unemployed. That tax cut will add at least $3,000 to the Prime Minister's income in the current year. 
When the Government came to office we saw the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty and this gave the Prime Minister $5,000 for himself. It resulted in another $ 100 per week being added to his income. If the superphosphate bounty is justified there are ways and means by which it can be administered to ensure that it goes to farmers most in need. Certainly the Prime Minister of this country who is on $75,000 a year does not need another $3,000 in tax cuts and does not need another $5,000 by means of the superphosphate bounty. After all, the money comes from the pensioners who are now paying tax levied by this Government. 
I want to move on to the 'Life will not be easy' syndrome which is applied to the public while lavishness is displayed by the Prime Minister. It was decided that there should be a special dinner set and it cost $9,000. It would work out at something like $1,000 an item. Surely that $9,000 could have been used to create some sort of regional employment development project that would have provided employment for people in the country areas where some of the highest levels of unemployment exist. 
The next item I want to refer to is the purchase of a specially custom built Chrysler vehicle, at a cost of $16,000, for the Prime Minister's use. A Mercedes is not good enough although that Mercedes had many years of life left in it. So the Government spent $16,000 on a new Chrysler for the Prime Minister. This same Prime Minister said that Australian tradesmen and Australian workers will have to work harder if the Australian shipbuilding industry is to survive. Under the priorities of this Government there are no funds to ensure the continuation of jobs for Australians in Australia. Instead, jobs are being exported. The Australian shipbuilding industry has been destroyed by this Government yet it has spent $16,000 on a new car for the Prime Minister. 
We are now seeing the most extravagant and most irresponsible use of government aircraft to fly members of the Prime Minister's family to the opera, of all places. Trans-Australia Airlines operates services, Ansett Airlines of Australia operates services and charter services are available but no, we had to have expenditure of $3,000 on a VIP aircraft to transport the Prime Minister's wife to the opera in Sydney one evening. That is the kind of priority which this Government has. There is no money to promote employment for youth in Australia; there is no money for Australian industry; there is no money to increase expenditure and so stimulate activity in the regional pockets of unemployment; but there is money for this kind of trivia and extravagance. On top of this, a quarter of a million dollars is spent because, as I read the report in the  Women's Weekly,  Tamie said that the Lodge was a disgrace, it just had to be renovated. There is the real reason for that expenditure, not what was said in the report of the Official Establishments Committee. We can set up a committee to bring down any kind of report we want and that is what has happened in relation to the report on the Lodge. So a quarter of a million dollars has been spent on renovations to make life easier for the Prime Minister but not to ensure that life will be easier for those people who are out of work or on lesser incomes than the Prime Minister. 
Last year there was the use of VIP flights to transport wines from different States. Then we have the recent incident involving strawberries for the Queen's reception. All of this indicates extravagance. More recently, within the last fortnight, the traffic laws of the Australian Capital Territory were bent to enable the Prime Minister to exercise his indulgence in fast cars. There were reports of the Prime Minister driving at 180 kilometres an hour in the streets in the vicinity of Parliament House to try out the latest Boxer Ferrari model. If there is a law and a set of priorities in Australia, there also ought to be equity in their application, and if the traffic laws apply to John Citizen they also ought to apply to the Prime Minister. If it is in order for the Prime Minister to drive at 1 80 kilometres an hour in the vicinity of Parliament House with immunity, the same ought to apply to John Citizen and people should not be booked because the amphometer recorded them travelling at 3 kilometres an hour over the speed limit. I instance those events as examples of the priorities of this Government. 
We sought by way of questions on notice in the Parliament to get information on the true cost to the Australian taxpayer of the international safaris. Honourable members should bear in mind that every 11 weeks on average since this Government came to office the Prime Minister has had to go overseas. He has an 1 1 -weekly international safari. What the Government has done in its accounts is to ensure that the expenditure so incurred is dispersed among a multitude of estimates for the various component departments and it is very difficult, and so far has been impossible, to get an accurate cost of these trips. I draw the attention of the House to page 309 of  Hansard  for Senate Estimates Committee A which met on 12 September 1977.  Senator Douglas  McClelland is recorded as asking: 
Do I take it that when a Prime Minister or a Minister flys commercially the cost of the air fares for those accompanying the Prime Minister or Minister are a charge against the department? 
The response was: 
That is correct. Where commercial travel is involved the fares for the Minister and his personal staff would be a charge to this appropriation item. The fares for other departmental officers accompanying the Minister would be a charge to the appropriate department's appropriations. 
There is the proof of the claim I made some weeks ago that the Government is deliberately concealing the cost of its extravagances on its international safaris. It is misleading the community. The next matter to which I want to refer indicates probably the most irresponsible extravagance of all of the Prime Minister and his Ministers, namely, the decision of the Government to authorise the expenditure of $2m to upgrade television transmission facilities in western Victoria. Whilst many parts of Australia have less than desirable standards of television transmission, the upgrading of these television transmission facilities ranks only No. 35 on the list of priorities of the Department of Post and Telecommunications. On page 355 of  Hansard  for Senate Estimates Committee C this matter was raised.  Senator Button  asked: 
Has the extensive program ... of upgrading the television facilities there been approved? 
The departmental representative replied: 
Yes, except insofar as it has to run the gauntlet of the Budget every year. In other words, the projects have to go through the Budget every year. 

 Senator Button then asked: 
Can you give me some estimate of the expenditure which might be involved . . . in the Western Districts? 
That is the main one to which I refer. The departmental representative replied: 
asked the Minister for Transport, on notice, on 25 August 1 977: 
1 ) What funds were made available by his Department for expenditure on roadworks by category in the electoral division of Gippsland for each of the years 1971-72 to 1976-77. 
On what projects in each category were the funds expended. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Melbourne  Sun  of 9 September 1 977 in which it was alleged that a Ferrari Boxer motor car was test driven at speeds up to 1 80 km/h on roads only a few minutes from Parliament House on Wednesday, 7 September 1977. 
If so, what action has he taken to investigate whether the report is correct. 
3 ) What are the speed limits for cars travelling within the Australian Capital Territory. 
What is the speed limit for cars travelling along Morshead Drive, Pialligo Avenue and Sutton Road. 
If the report appearing in the  Sun  is correct, what action does he propose to take in respect of the driver named in the report. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Which management consultants which his Government utilises from time to time are known personally to him and what access do they have to classified economic and fiscal information? Is it a fact that economic advice conveyed by these consultants has been at variance with that provided by Treasury, the Government's official economic adviser? Is the acceptance of the consultants' advice the reason for the sudden shifts in the direction of the Government's economic policies? Finally, is the economic policy being pursued by the Government this week based on Treasury advice or that of the world wide consultants to multinationals, McKinsey and Co. Incorporated? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has the Minister travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 1 975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied the Minister on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of the Minister and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or ether means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 5 September 1 977: 
1 ) Has the review of overseas cargo shipping legislation been completed; if so, when does he expect to table the report in the Parliament. 
If the review has not been completed, when does he expect it will be completed and will he undertake to table it in Parliament. 
-My grievance today concerns the shambles into which the management of the aviation industry in Australia has fallen under the superintendence of this Government. I particularly want to put a case on behalf of the rights of consumers of air services. After all, they are the people who make everything possible. If they are not there to travel in the aircraft and pay the fares, nothing hap- pens. I think the Parliament needs to recall that it year 1.032 million persons travelled out of 
This is the kind of information which the Government to date has not been prepared to bring before the public for study. In this House on 24 August I asked the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  during the debate on the Air Navigation Amendment Bill to extend the inquiry into domestic civil aviation to include international civil aviation. Subsequently I again asked him that question in the House. He ignored my first request and on the second occasion refused. A few days ago the Minister announced the establishment of an inquiry into international civil aviation. At least by doing that he yielded to some extent to the demands by the Opposition for an overall inquiry. However, in both cases the inquiries are secret. The information received will be privy to the Department of Transport and its officers and consultants unless the people making the submissions are prepared to make them public. In each case the report of the inquiry will be privy to the Government and to the bureaucracy, not to the community whom it affects. 
Since this Government came to office there has been a continuing theme of secrecy and behind 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Grievance Debate 13 October 1977 REPRESENTATIVES 1975 

<graphic href="107131197710132_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

closed doors consideration of vital matters affecting the provision of transport services, particularly air services. Let us quickly run back through them. The Aviation Industry Review Committee chaired by  Sir Lennox  Hewitt comprised three people from the aviation industry. It was a secret committee looking into the cost recovery programs of the Government and the cost structure of the aviation industry. The inquiry was secret and its report is secret. No information has been brought before the Parliament on the results of that inquiry despite the expense incurred in carrying out the inquiry and, more importantly, despite the importance of that inquiry to the whole aviation industry. 
If we are to consider what fares ought to be charged, the frequency of services, the kind of infrastructure which should be provided around airports in terms of public transport services to and from airports and all the other facilities that are involved in servicing an airport, we need to know what kind of costs are involved and projected. The Hewitt Committee report is vital to any proper public consideration of aviation services in Australia. I have made repeated requests in the Parliament and outside the Parliament for the Minister to table the report. The industry itself has called for the tabling of the report. It wants the information to be made available for public consideration but the Minister has consistently refused to table the report. 
Then we move to the McNeil Committee report which inquired into the four government transport undertakings, Trans-Australia Airlines, Qantas, the Australian National Line and Australian National Railways. Again it was a secret inquiry but the committee deliberations were scandalous to the extent that the inquiry was carried out by competitors and clients of those four transport undertakings. Its report was not tabled. No information is available on it. Then we have the current domestic aviation review inquiry which I have just mentioned and the international civil aviation inquiry mentioned the day before yesterday. These last two inquiries now are being carried out in tandem. This is a most ludicrous situation, a most extravagant and wasteful situation. What is more, it is a situation in which two complementary parts are being examined in isolation from each other. There are four inquiries now being carried out, all looking at aviation or parts of aviation and all privy to the Minister and the bureaucracy. The public is not considered responsible enough to be able to know what is happening within those inquiries. 
I wish to quote from the editorial in the September issue of the influential aviation magazine  Aircraft.  It states: 
It seems as if the public and Parliament will never see or be able to properly consider important documents such as the several reports of the Aviation Industry Review Committee, probably the most important review of Australian civil aviation compiled in the past 20 years or reports like the McNeil Committee which made major recommendations to the Government on its four transport enterprises including Qantas and TAA. These are the documents being used as the basis for major government decisions which affect not only the aviation industry but the entire community and vet they are being denied even parliamentary scrutiny and debate. 
Let us contrast that comment with the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in September last in which he said that if the Australian electorate was to be able to make valid judgments on Government policies it should have the greatest possible access to information. I wish the Minister for Transport would take up the suggestion of the Prime Minister that the greatest possible access be provided to the information essential to decisions on the very important transport industries. In addition to the four inquiries I have mentioned there is the interdepartmental committee inquiry into aviation services in the Northern Territory. That inquiry is crucial to the actual movement of people and to the provision of the basic necessities of life in the Northern Territory and Central Australia, yet it is a closed shop inquiry. We do not know what was in the report. Again the Government has made recommendations on the expenditure of public funds as a result of the recommendations of that report. The only question that can be asked is: Why all the secrecy? What is it that the Government is trying to hide in the transport industry? 
It is not good enough for the Minister to say that the public already has access. The Minister was asked on  AM  yesterday: 'But the public will not be in a position to evaluate the sort of evidence that is coming up? That is in relation to the international civil aviation inquiry. He replied: 'The public will be. Well, if the public like to publish their submissions of course they will'. What the public will be able to evaluate is what conclusions the Government reaches. That is the important thing in the eyes of the Government and the Minister. It leaves the Minister in a position of great dictatorial power. He has all the information about the operations of the industry, about what kind of services can be made available but that information will not be made available to the public. 
The whole problem of management of civil aviation services in this country will not be solved until the facts on the kinds of costs involved, the kind of service available, the quality of service available, the viability which is expected of civil aviation in and out of Australia in coming years are known and brought out in the public arena for proper responsible assessment. The Government and Minister are depriving the Parliament and the community of the essential information that they need to consider the kinds of services which we should have in this country. 
Let me move to my final item. In the midst of all the public concern about aviation fares and aviation services, internal and external, another element that has run right through has been the opposition of government parties to the services of Trans- Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd. At the moment the annual report of Qantas is held up in Treasury. As I understand the position, it should have been tabled in this Parliament. It is many weeks overdue. There is no doubt in my mind that the holding up of the Qantas report is in some way intended to prejudice the position of Qantas. Qantas and TAA are publicly owned enterprises, belonging to the consumers, belonging to the taxpayers of this country. They, like any other commercial enterprise, should be given the opportunity to function as efficiently and as effectively as they can within the broad laws of this country. I hope the Government will respond to my request to open up civil aviation in this country for proper examination and let the facts be known to the community. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
-The proposed total expenditure for the Department of Transport for the year 1977-78 of $840m is a cash increase of $35.8m, or 4 per cent on actual expenditure of $834.2m in 1976-77. It represents a reduction in real terms of 8 per cent on 1976-77. This reduction of 8 per cent in real terms in funds allocated to transport activities by the conservative and corrupt Fraser Government is clear evidence - 
-I will repeat what I said for the benefit of the honourable member. The reduction by the conservative and corrupt Fraser Government is clear evidence of the low priority it accords the provision of transport services in Australia. 
-Speaking to the point of order - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! A request has been made that the honourable member withdraw the word 'corrupt'. 
-Speaking to the point of order, I claim the remark is addressed to the Government as an entity. My understanding of the practice of the House is that, where a remark is addressed to an entity, the remark is in order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  In those circumstances no point of order arises. 
-Despite the fact that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is reputed to be a senior Cabinet Minister, the funding priorities accorded transport services show that either he is responsible for those low priorities or he has little impact on Cabinet decisions relating to his own portfolio. In any case, Australian industry, primary producers and Australian consumers are needlessly forced to accept a lower standard of efficiency in transport services than could and should be available. 
In the few minutes available to me in this totally inadequate debate on proposed expenditure for the Department of Transport, remembering that we have one and a half hours in which to debate item by item $870m of expenditure, I want to discuss a number of expenditure items to which I sincerely hope the Minister will respond responsibly as previous Ministers have done in respect of the estimates for their departments. I turn first to fire services. Under item 06 of subdivision 2 of Division 655 a sum of $345,000 is being provided, compared with actual expenditure of $324,235 in 1976-77. Under item 12 the sum of $2.850m is being provided, compared with actual expenditure of $2.609m in 1976-77. In both items the proposed expenditure is a considerable reduction in real terms compared with 1976-77 expenditure. Both items cover the provision and maintenance of fire fighting materials, fixed installations and fire fighting appliances. Item 02 under subdivision 1 of Division 957 in Appropriation Bill (No. 2) includes some provision for new fire fighting appliances. The amount of $ 10.4m is a reduction in real terms also. We are not told in the Budget Papers what amount is separately available for new appliances. 
Last Sunday the spillage of burning motor spirit into drains at Mascot following a tragic motor accident could have resulted in a holocaust if the resultant fire had spread to the airport facilities. The risk of fire is a tremendous hazard at airports and to aircraft passengers. It is a disgraceful state of affairs when so little action is being taken by this Government to ensure that our major airports have modern effective fire protection services available. That the Government is aware of the dangers is evidenced by statements made at the Senate Estimates Committee hearing on the Department of Transport estimates. On page S21 of the  Hansard  of Senate Estimates Committee C for 15 September we read the following questioning by  Senator Wriedt  of officers of the Department of Transport: 

 Senator WRIEDT; To what extent does the Department attempt to make its fire-fighting equipment interchangeable with that provided by local fire services? Is it an on-going policy to do that in order to reduce costs? 

 Mr Birch; Certainly this would be so with the fixed firefighting installations. There is not much room for compatibility between the types of mobile equipment used by the local fire brigades and our particular requirements on airports. 

 Senator WRIEDT; What are the specific items which are deferred from last year. 

 Mr O'Halloran; Basically, senator, they refer to a normal provisioning of spares programs which fell back a little last year because of the lack of sufficient funds. 
I emphasise the last few words. The  Hansard  report goes on: 

 Senator WRIEDT; Could I also ask for a comparison of fire-fighting equipment at Australian airports with equipment at overseas airports. Is the Department satisfied that the standards are adequate? 

 Mr Birch; At the moment we are attempting to raise all airports to the International Civil Aviation Organisation standards. We are acquiring new equipment. We placed orders recently for 10 ultra large fire vehicles and we have deliveries of other types of vehicles coming up. We have been having some difficulty in meeting ICAO standards in this regard But we hope during this year that we will be back to standard again. 

 Senator WRIEDT; Would that mean that we were at one stage up to the ICAO standards but have now slipped behind somewhat? 

 Mr Birch; I would doubt that we were ever right up to ICAO standards in all respects at every airport. 
It is clear from the answers given by the Department representatives that fire protection services at our airports are not up to desirable international standards. It has to be emphasised that for 25 of the past 28 years the conservatives have been in government and they have maintained a below international requirement standard of fire protection at our airports. They have traded on good luck for that period, but even good luck eventually runs out. It is questionable whether our major airports have the capacity to deal with a major Boeing 747 disaster, let alone a disaster of the magnitude of the Teneriffe disaster. That is the achievement of this Government. I draw the Committee's attention to the comment in the recent report of the Commonwealth Fire Board relating to the compatibility of fire fighting appliances under the control of departments. 
I turn now to expenditure on meteorological services. Division 655.2.16 provides an amount of $ 11.403m in 1977-78 for the cost of meteorological services, which include the supply of pre-flight and intra-flight weather forecasts and information. The amount is shown as an increase of $31 1,000 on 1976-77 expenditure, which at first sight appears to be a substantial reduction in real terms. In notes supplied to the 1977 Senate Estimates Committee C the Department stated: 
It is the Department's opinion that the share of costs of the Bureau of Meteorology being borne by the aviation industry is inequitable, and to this end has identified some specialist services taken from the Bureau which can now be dispensed with. Nevertheless, until such time as the matter is closely examined by an IDC and a new level of charges assessed, the costs will have to be continued under the existing arrangement. 
By itself that statement seems reasonable until this year's appropriation is compared with the corresponding 1976-77 estimates. In my view that comparison shows that the Minister and the Department have seriously misled the Parliament. Actual expenditure on this item in 1975-76 was $10.999m, in 1976-77 it was $1 1.092m, and the proposed expenditure in 1977-78 is $1 1.403m. In 1976 the Parliament was told that proposed expenditure for 1976-77 was $9.582m, which was a decrease of $1.417m on actual 1975- 76 expenditure. At the time the Department stated: 
It is intended to review the level of aviation weather services taken from the Bureau of Meteorology in an endeavour to effect an immediate reduction in costs. An IDC is to examine the basis of charges currently levied by the Bureau and it is anticipated that a reduced level of charging insofar as this Department is concerned will be formulated. 
I do not have time to go through all the information, but I will just deal with my conclusions which are based on the submissions by the Department and the Minister to the Senate Estimates Committee last year in respect of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). They show that the estimate for 1976- 77 was exceeded by $1.5 10m. An examination of the explanatory notes supplied to the Estimates Committee by the Department will show that the procedures followed by the Department in respect of this item raise a number of serious questions of financial procedure. In the light of the deficiencies shown in those reports, I believe that Minister is responsible for the procedures that were followed and that the procedures followed denied the Parliament pertinent information on proposed expenditure. In my view, the whole matter, scandalous as it is, should be referred to the Auditor-General for examination and to the Joint Committee of Public Accounts for inquiry and report to the Parliament. The information contained in the 1976-77 Appropriation Bill (No. 3) should be before the Committee. It is not, and a completely false impression has been given to the Committee as to the purpose of the expenditure and how it relates to expenditure in the year just concluded. 
-In the brief time available to me in the adjournment debate this evening, I want to draw to the attention of the House a decision of the Government to lay up two of the three navigational aid vessels or navaid vessels- the  Cape Pillar,  the  Cape Don  and the  Cape Moreton.  It is well known to the seafaring community, to those people who are dependent for safety reasons upon the proper and efficient operation of navigational aidslighthouses, buoys and markers- that the Government has decided to cut back on the servicing and maintenance of these aids. What I want to draw to the attention of the House is the very serious safety factor involved in this course. The ships, as well as servicing and maintaining the navigational aids provide supply facilities and also at times carry out some work on behalf of sister departments. It would appear that because of the reduction in revenue from light dues and because of a reduced traffic in coastal shipping it is felt that there is insufficient revenue to match the increase in expenditure that has occurred over the last year and therefore a decision has been taken by the Government to reduce the number of vessels in this area. 
These vessels have a number of other functions. They are one of the important means of reporting otherwise undetected vessels off the Australian coast. It is worth noting that more than 30 per cent of marine operation centre sightings are made by non-surveillance vessels. At the present time, with the great fear being expressed about breaches of quarantine and what could occur with the unauthorised landings of vessels on the Australian coast, particularly at remote places, and the ravage to Austraiian livestock that would be caused by the introduction of exotic diseases, it is all the more important that the Government do all it can to maintain the operations of these vessels. Not only is the question of quarantine important but also the unauthorised landings of persons intent on permanent residence in Australia or others who could be engaged in drug trafficking is important. There is also the recent decision to establish a 200-mile commercial fishing zone around Australia. While it is in the interests of Australia to develop and foster our own fishing industry, it is also in our interests to maintain those vessels on the Australian coast to keep up the good work they are doing sighting unauthorised vessels from other lands which are entering our commercial fishing zones. They are just some of the reasons why these vessels should be maintained. 
The Opposition believes that safety should not be related strictly to revenue. It would appear from the information available that the Government's decision on the operation of navaid vessels around the Australian coast is determined by revenue available from light dues. Some claim is also made by the Government that this decision is related to practice followed by overseas countries. It is understandable that the use of light aircraft and helicopters in maintaining and servicing some of the aids may well provide a more efficient and more economic method of servicing those aids. But the paramount matter is that the vessels should be kept operating, at least until some alternative means of surveillance is arranged. As said I earlier, at a time when we have a record number of violations of Australian commercial fishing zone waters by the unauthorised entry of foreign vessels, these navaid vessels should be maintained if only to sight unauthorised entry into Austraiian waters and unauthorised landings on the Australian coast. 
I conclude on the point that the task is before the Government. I believe the Government has its priorities wrong because more than 30 per cent of Marine Operations Centre sightings are made by non-surveillance vessels. These navaid vessels have a very important role to carry out in this respect and I ask the Government to continue their operations, pending the establishment of other means of identification and surveillance. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 932 (Hansard, 2 June 1977, page 2S94), is he now able to provide the reasons for the failure of the second engine of the twin engined aircraft of Masling Airlines en route from Essendon to Sydney on 8 February 1 977. 
If not, when does he expect to able to provide this information. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 17 August 1 977: 
How many persons travelled overseas on an Australian official or diplomatic passport during the periods 
1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976 and 
1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977? 
-The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  like the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  sermonised about the problems of youth, but he and the honourable member for Wilmot are members of a government that participated in a long program of stigmatising and denigrating the youth of this country. Whenever the forthcoming election is held, they will reap the harvest. In their greed and their lust for power in this place, they have sown a wind but, they will reap a social whirlwind. They have divided the Australian community. They have stigmatised Australian youth. To talk about the Community Youth Support Scheme as doing something for unemployed youth is an absolute insult to the young people of this country. The CYSS program is a jobless concealment program. It is a teenage minding service that somehow seems to ease the consciences of those who sit opposite. It denigrates the young people who are asked to participate in it. Six dollars a week is the magnificent sum paid to people for fares to and from classes where they learn such things as needlework, how to comb their hair, or how to dress themselves. There is nothing about providing jobs or stimulating the economy. 
Of course we want jobs, and they want jobs. They want jobs but they also want dignity. They are entitled to dignity. That is more than this Government is giving them. They are entitled to dignity; they are entitled to respect and those who sit opposite are not giving it to them. Honourable members opposite have divided this country. We could talk about the Special Youth Employment Training Programthis great innovation of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  which is being put forward as doing something for unemployed youth. Earlier this evening, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  referred to the rorts and the crooked things that are going on in respect of that scheme, and he was laughed at by those who sit opposite. 
As members of the Department are sitting in the chamber, I shall cite a case which was brought to the attention of the departmental officers. Their hearts are just as hard as are the hearts of those who sit opposite. I shall relate the case of a mother who rang me on 29 August and told me that that afternoon her son had been given notice. He was 15 months into an apprenticeship as a typewriter mechanic. His indentures had not been signed earlier. That afternoon his employer told him that since the indentures had now arrived he, the employer, found that he would not be able to allow the young man one day a week off for him to go to technical college, despite the fact that we all know he would have allowed that 15 months earlier. That was the ruse, the excuse, used. His mother worried all weekend. I spoke to the Department on the Monday and the Department told me: 'We are sorry. There is nothing we can do about it. There is no way in which we can insist or require of the employer that anybody he applies for under the SYETP is an addition to the work force'. My constituent was sacked on 29 August. On the same afternoon the employer applied for the subsidy- $63 a week of taxpayers' money, or almost twice the rate of benefit applicable to young people under 18 years of age. On the Monday, three days later, a replacement for the young typewriter apprentice, which my constituent thought he was, commenced work. That young man finished on the Friday. 
To compound the problem, the Department then told the young man: 'Do not worry too much. We will try to get you placed in another position where your 15 months of service can be taken into account. We can get $63 a week from the Government to give to an employer who is prepared to employ you'. So here we have $126 a week of taxpayers' money given to an employer when a young man 15 months into his career as he thought, wrongly, and 15 months into what he thought was an apprenticeship, is sacked. So much for the Government's SYETP Scheme. It is a job substitution program. I raised this matter in the House in September and the Minister for Productivity and Minister Assisting the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Macphee)  replied: 'Well, if you tell me who it is and bring it to the attention of the Department, we will see what we can do about it.' I had already done that and the Department said: 'We are sorry, there is nothing we can do. There is no condition attached to the subsidy that requires the employer to show that the position is an addition to the work force'. That day I asked the Minister to take action. He refused, and by his refusal eight or so weeks ago he endorsed the practice of some employers in this country ripping off pensioners who pay tax and ripping off people who are unemployed. Here we have a government that tries to express a concern for youth! It is not concerned about youth. 
Let me now advert to the unemployment figures. Since December 1975 we have heard that the unemployment figures are inflated. First we had the abolition of seasonally adjusted figures. We were told that such figures inflated the position and were not a true level of accuracy. So they were abolished. Then, one way or another the Department, within its own procedures, sought to depress the unemployment figures. It achieved that result. It has succeeded, in my view, in substantially understating the true level of unemployment in Australia. Be that as it may, if the figures in 1975 and 1976 were inflated, they were more inflated in 1974 and 1975. The deflated figures being used by this Government for comparison with unemployment in the time of the Whitlam Government form quite a false comparison because the figures in 1975, by the Government's own action and its own definition, were inflated figures. The figures are now deflated figures so the true position, the true comparison of unemployment in this country, is not being shown. 
I move now to the shipbuilding industry. The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations was created as a supportive service. Many years ago men who were interested in the social implications of unemployment went into that Department. They were men who were dedicated to doing something for people who were unemployed and who could not get work. Under the present Government, that Department has developed into a policing department. To come back to the shipbuilding industry in Newcastle, we will recall that in the latter part of that year the Minister said that special action would be taken by his Department in collaboration with other departments to provide services in the Newcastle district particularly to assist some of the 5,000 people who would become unemployed as a result of the devastation of the shipbuilding industry caused by this Government. This Government did nothing to help these people. The Minister has refused to do anything about the matter. There have been questions about this in this House, and it has been raised in the Press. Nothing at all has been done. There has been a complete repudiation of the promises made and a complete disregard of the dehumanising aspects of being unemployed. 
I take this point further. In Newcastle at the moment some 300 to 400 debtors' warrants are being issued each month against people who cannot meet their commitments. Seventy-five per cent of the people who are receiving those debtors warrants are unemployed- people for whom those who sit opposite profess to have some concern. The bulk of that 75 per cent are in the 40 to 50 years age group. Where is the humanity on that side of the House? Where is the concern in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations? It does not have any. It is a dehumanising department and this Government is a dehumanising government. I draw the Minister's attention and the attention of the chamber to the legal notices in yesterday's  Newcastle Morning Herald.  In all the cases dealt with, bailiffs' warrants were being served on people whose household furnishings were being sold up the same day. As they did yesterday and as they will do today, on Thursday, and again next week, bailiffs in the Wallsend district will be going into people's homes and selling up their furniture. Some of the things being sold are: One only lounge suite, three piece; one only buffet plus contents; one only Speedie electric heater; two only coffee tables; one only Philips black and white television set; one only sideboard and one only dining room suite. That is what is happening in the Newcastle area. That illustrates the Government's lack of concern for the people who are unemployed. I suggest to some honourable member s opposite and to some of the people in the Department that they should go along to some of those auctions. I sent somebody to one of those auctions yesterday. There were nine people present in a room of a home. Three of them were visitors-two represented me and one represented the Press. Two other people present were the bailiff's officers and the six people included some second-hand dealers buying up the furniture from the homes of those unfortunate people. I urge the Government, if it has any concern for unemployed people to act now to stimulate the economy to help these people. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 10 March 1977 I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Minister Assisting the 
Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1 977: 
1 ) What is the name, classification and employing agency of each of the members of the Oversea Visits Committee. 
What are the functions of the Committee. 
3 ) Which department chairs the Committee. 
To whom does it report. 
Is its purpose to approve overseas visits by individuals travelling on government business. 
If so, (a) from which departments were applications for overseas visits received during the periods (i)1 July 1975 to 30 June 1976 and(ii) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977 and(b) how many applications, and from which departments, were (i) approved or (ii) rejected during these periods. 
Are some overseas travel proposals exempt from the Committee's consideration. If so, which proposals. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
What action has his Department taken to implement the provisions of Article X of the Basic Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation between Australia and Japan. 
What are the present shipping arrangements between Australia and Japan under the terms of the Article. 
What are the guidelines and objectives for the mutual co-operation for the development of shipping between Japan and Australia. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) Does a helicopter passenger service operate between Townsville Airport and Nellie Bay, Magnetic Island. 
If so, what are the provisions of the regulations governing the operation of the service especially as they affect (a) the embarkation and disembarkation of passengers and luggage and ( b) the qualifications of pilots who operate the service. 
Do the relevant regulations provide that the engine(s) of the aircraft must not operate whilst loading and unloading take place. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) Has the secret review of overseas cargo shipping legislation which he announced on 17 March 1977 been completed as anticipated. 
Will he make the report of the study group available to the Parliament for the benefit of members; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
What was the purpose of the Canberra/Richmond/ Canberra flight made by aircraft No. 3 (Mystere) of No. 34 Squadron on 8 March 1977. 
) What was departure and arrival time at each airport. 
Were any persons other than normal operational crew of the aircraft transported from, or to, Canberra; if so, what was their classification. 
What goods and/or foodstuffs were transported by the aircraft from, or to, Canberra. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
1 ) What level of commonality exists in fire hose couplings of fire-fighting appliances located at each of the airports controlled by his Department. 
What action has he taken to ensure interchangeability of his Department's fire-fighting appliances with those of nearby fire-fighting authorities. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
What is the make, year of manufacture, location, capacity and expected remaining work life of each of the main fire- fighting appliances operated at airports in Australia. 
What are the details and intended locations of firefighting appliances on order by his Department. 
It is ironic to hear the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  making a plea for honesty. I would have thought that he would set an example in this place, but when he talks about disgraceful political acts, let us just shift our attention a little to the south of New South Wales. 
-I hope that the honourable member for Macarthur does not have that feeling again. If he pleases, I ask him to shift his attention to the southern section of the continent and read some of the reports resulting from the Victorian land inquiry. If he does so he will see where the dishonesty and the corruption lies.  His  own fellow members of the Liberal Party are involved in diverting vast sums of money away from proper public utilisation, away from providing homes for those people who are needy and who do not have homes. 
-I know that the honourable member cannot understand but I hope he can read. The money was diverted away from homes for needy persons for one simple reason and that was to obstruct the activities of the Whitlam Government in implementing a program of housing for people who could not afford their own homes. 
I suspect that later this evening the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  will raise a matter relating to the Qantas Airways Ltd publication  Detour.  In his defence I should say that yesterday he raised this matter with me in my capacity, I took it at the time, as the shadow Minister for Transport. He asked me had I seen this publication  Detour  and I replied promptly that I had not. He said: 'I went to the trouble to ring  Sir Lenox  Hewitt and congratulate him on the quality'- 1 think that was the word, but it is near enough to it-' and tell him that at last Qantas was getting with it and now is recognising a needy section of the market'. I raise that in defence of the honourable member for Denison- I think what I have said is accurateand in rebuttal, on his behalf, of the remarks made earlier by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  I am sorry that there is such division amongst honourable members opposite on the very back bench but this is indicative of the general attitude of honourable members opposite towards successful publicly owned transport enterprises. Qantas Airways Ltd managed to make a profit last year. Its annual report has been deliberately delayed by the Treasury, no doubt because this can have an impact upon its liquidity position in the current year. That, I understand, is the position. 
There is criticism within the Government party room, at Young Liberal Council and State Liberal Council meetings about the successful operations of Trans-Australia Airlines. It seems to me that the Government party would rather have those successful publicly owned transport enterprises in the hands of foreign corporations and I wish they would stand up and declare their attitude clearly. The backbiting, the division and the argument that goes on among Government party members operates only to the detriment of fine, efficient, well-managed and successful Australian publicly owned transport enterprises. If they want to argue about something they should turn instead to the dirty land deals in Victoria. Let us see some honesty on the part of Liberal members opposite and let us put an end to the corruption. Quite clearly, from the reports coming forward from that inquiry, money has gone to the Liberal Party of Victoria in consideration of decisions made by members of the Government. That is where honourable members opposite ought to be directing their attention in order to achieve a much higher level of honesty so that the people we represent will get the services and facilities they pay for through their taxes in the various revenue forms that come to the Government. 
Last evening we heard the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  tell us that the cost of local telephone calls is to rise to 15 cents. He put a case to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the 
Minister, by bis silence, obviously acquiesces in the suggestion that local telephone calls should be raised to 15 cents a call. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
Has his Department carried out any studies into the costs of ownership and operation of private motor cars in urban and inner urban areas compared with the use of rent-a-cars e.g. Budget Car Rentals, Avis; if so, what do those studies show; if not, will he give consideration to having studies carried out. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
What sums have been expended on, or on matters related to Brisbane Airport in each of the years from 1 966-67 to 1976-77 inclusive. 
What was the purpose of each item of expenditure during that period. 
3 ) For what provisions and for what purposes have funds been provided in the 1977-78 Budget for Brisbane Airport and related matters: 
What future action is proposed by the Government in respect of Brisbane Airport. 
5) Is the Airport adequate to handle present needs. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
1 ) What are the criteria followed in determining whether or not airport fire-fighting services are in accord with standards set by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). 
Which airports in Australia have fire-fighting services that meet ICAO standards. 
Which airports have fire-fighting services that do not meet ICAO standards and in what respects are the services at each of those airports deficient. 
What was the expenditure by his Department on airport fire-fighting services during each of the years from 1970-71 to 1976-77 inclusive and what expenditure is proposed during 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
At which airports in Australia does his Department provide a fire-fighting service. 
What are the criteria followed in determining at which airports fire-fighting services will be provided. 
At which airports were fire-fighting services (a) withdrawn and (b) installed during each of the years from 1970-71 to 1976-77, inclusive. 
At which airports is it proposed to withdraw or reduce fire-fighting services during 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
1 ) What land on airports is available for use by the aviation industry as a result of paying air navigation charges. 
What means are used to define the limits of this land. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 18 October 1977: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 465 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 10 March 1 977? 
I want firstly to respond to a few of the comments made by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr).  I am alarmed at the way he discarded the interests of those people on the waterfront who now find themselves redundant. He dismissed them with the proposition: Well, it is a difficult fact of life but you have to face up to reality; that is progress. I wonder whether that is what he tells his constituents? I wonder whether that is what he has put to the apple and pear growers? I seem to recall that he was one of those who voted last year in favour of the increased subsidy for the apple and pear growers. Here is the contradiction and the cynicism of honourable members opposite towards people who have only their labour to offer. They do not have capital. They have only a skill and through no fault of their own but through changes in society they find that their skills are no longer required, or that the process of age has made them not as efficient as they used to be, or that they cannot lift the heavy weights they used to lift in their younger days. The honourable member for Wilmot says: 'We are sorry about that, but you will just have to go '. I know that he does not really believe that. I know that he does not apply that to the people of the State of Tasmania, but if in any way he thinks he believes it, I wish that he would put that same kind of thinking across ail of the arguments and across all of the propositions he puts to the people. 
In respect of Tasmania I should point out that it was a conservative government in the 1950s that abolished the freight subsidies that were available to Tasmania. It was not until the Labor Government came into office in 1972 that a freight subsidy was re-instituted to help Tasmania to try to get out of the freight problems that had been caused in transport because of the neglect that Tasmania suffered over many years under conservative administrations. It was the Labor Government that appointed the Nimmo inquiry, and whilst that inquiry was being carried out we re-instituted that subsidy to try to assist Tasmanians. The present freight equalisation scheme which would have been adopted by the Labor government had it still been in office is a result of the initiative of the Labor Government of that period. Honourable members opposite can claim no credit for it. They are fortunate that they are in a position to superintend it. But there again if we were to take the honourable member for Wilmot seriously, as Tasmania is to the south of the continent- it is separated by water from the mainland- following his reasonable line of thinking and trying to do him justice he would have to say that that scheme should not operate. So I think it is fair to say, following the line of thinking of the honourable member for Willmot, that if he had been here at the time he would have opposed any subsidy for Tasmania, and that is really the truth of what he is trying to put to us. 
He said that the costs of the waterside industry are borne by consumers. I notice that he neatly neglected to mention the $696,000 per annum or $13,000 per week payable as directors fees to  Sir Reginald  Reid. But it is true to say that in any industry all the costs and charges ultimately are borne either by the tax payers or by the consumers. 
I suggest to the honourable member for Wilmot and those honourable members on the other side of the chamber who have spoken in the debate that they ought to direct their remarks in respect of the waterfront particularly to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and to his colleagues on the other side of the chamber who seem to get some sort of fiendish delight out of aggravating people who work on the waterfront or in any of the transport industries. That is all very well for short term political gain for honourable members opposite. They might think that they score points out of it, but they disrupt people's lives, they put an added burden of costs on to the industry, they make Australia less competitive in export markets and they make the cost of transport within this country artificially high. Because of a lack of political argument they stoop to denigrating people working within an industry who are not as fortunate as they are. They could not go to Geelong Grammar like the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  who is sitting at the table. They could not go to any of the other wealthy schools. 
-Where did you go? 
-I am sorry, Melbourne Grammar. I do not want to downgrade him to Geelong Grammar; that is how he feels apparently. But these people are Australians. They are entitled to be given the opportunity to support their families. Surely they are entitled to the consideration and compassion of us all. They should not be singled out because the National Country Party or the honourable member for Wilmot feels that here is a good substitute for a rational argument. All those added costs go to the consumers. The honourable member came back to the attack on publicly owned transport enterprises. He suggested that anything that is publicly owned cannot be competitive and cannot be successful and for that reason the waterfront should be handed back to private enterprise. That again is in line with the thinking of honourable members opposite- anything that is profitable, particularly anything in which there are exhorbitant profits to be made, ought to be left to the private sector. It should have a licence to rip off the Australian community as and how it wishes. The same honourable members opposite regularly denigrate Trans-Australia Airlines, Qantas Airways Ltd and the Australian National Line, but these are quite efficient, successful, publicly owned transport enterprises. I would have thought that as government supporters they would have been seeking to improve and encourage these enterprises to greater effort. This is understandable because it is a reversion to the old Menzies' philosophy: 'If there is a dollar or a quid in it, you give it to the private sector, and if there is a loss incurred you socialise it and let the taxpayers bear the burden'. If  Sir Robert  Menzies had not disposed of the Commonwealth Oil Refineries back in the 1950s, if his Government had not disposed of that well-developed Australian firm Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia), if it had not disposed of the Commonwealth Handling Equipment Pool, which was the genesis of Brambles; it pushed Brambles on to its feet in the early years- if those three private enterprises had been left in public ownership this country would be far more efficient today, particularly in transport services, because the government, irrespective of which party was in office, would have a direct insight into the costs of the oil industry, into the costs of the transport industry at the waterfront level and into the electronics industry. But, as I have said, if there is a dollar to be made it ought to be left to those who can rip off the people, and if there is a loss to be incurred, it ought to be pushed on to the taxpayers. 
In this cognate debate I firstly want to make a few remarks on the Port Statistics Bill 1977. The import of that Bill is to provide for the collection of stevedoring and related port statistics and transfers that responsibility from the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, which is to be abolished, to the Department of Transport. Clause 4 of the Bill empowers the Secretary of the Department to collect and publish statistics on the loading and unloading of ships and vehicles at ports and on the movement of ships. Clause 5 of the Bill enables the collection of statistics and persons will be required to furnish specified information, books or documents to verify information provided under the threat of a penalty for non-compliance. Clause 7 of the Bill provides that a person performing duties under this Bill will be prohibited from recording or divulging any information acquired, except in the course of duty. That is a natural inclusion in the Bill. It is to maintain secrecy and confidentiality on the part of the company concerned or the officer concerned with handling the detailed statistics of that company. 
The background to this Bill is that the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority currently collects a wide range of statistics on the stevedoring industry. In his second reading speech the Minister indicated that the present wide powers of the Authority under the Stevedoring Industry 
Act 1956 to collect and disclose information are not appropriate under the new arrangements for the stevedoring industry. Consequently much of the Bill is concerned with defining the limits of the powers of the Department of Transport in the collection and disclosure of port statistics. It is worth mentioning also that at the meeting of the Marine and Ports Council of Australia in Surfers Paradise last year the new proposals were discussed and a working group comprising Federal and State officers was established to facilitate the transfer to the Department of Transport of the responsibility for the collection of the statistics. 
The charges made for port handling services are a key element in marine transport services. They are a key element in determining the range of our access to export markets and in our internal markets, and whilst much criticism is made of Australian coastal shipping it is a fact of life that from about 1941 to recent years, though there has been a large shift in the composition of coastal shipping, the gross tonnage that has been transported has not changed so much. What has changed in actual fact has been an exchange of general cargo for bulk cargoes. Whereas the tonnage shifted around the Australian coast is much the same the composition of those cargoes is now bulk cargoes and general cargo has moved on to surface transport. 
The accompanying Bills, together with the Port Statistics Bill, provide for the new arrangements and for the operation of our port services as well as for the abolition of the ASIA. The question that is immediately posed is: Will this system work? As the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  mentioned earlier, only time will tell, and we as a future government reserve the right to review the effectiveness of the new arrangements. We hope they will work. We hope for the sake of Australia because of the heavy cost component of transport services in our marketing, that they will work. As the proposals are supported by the industry and by the unions we are not opposing them. As I said, we reserve the right to observe whether the new scheme works. Here the responsibility is upon the industry itself to make sure that the scheme does work. 
I think most honourable members are conversant with the Prices Justification Tribunal inquiry into the costs of some aspects of the stevedoring industry and the charges made. The Minister for Transport stated- as I recall he did so before these arrangements were actually publishedthat while the Government still retains the Prices Justification Tribunal it could well be a means of checking on the efficiency of the new arrangements and seeing whether the charges to be imposed in the future are charges that can be properly validated. I simply refer honourable members to the conclusions of the PJT inquiry into container handling. I refer to page 103 of the Australian Shippers Council report which contains an appendix listing conclusions of the PJT. It states: 
The Tribunal is of the opinion that the existing wharf handling and shippers charges in the ports of Sydney and Melbourne are not justified but that the lower wharf handling and shippers charges set out in Appendix 'V hereto are justified. 
The appendix continues: 
The Tribunal is of the opinion that the proposed higher wharf handling and shippers charges for the ports of Brisbane, Melbourne, Geelong and Portland and the proposed higher wharf handling charges for the port of Sydney are not justified. 
The fourth conclusion set out in the appendix reads: 
The Tribunal is of the opinion that the existing prices for mechanical equipment hire in the port of Sydney are not justified but that the lower prices set out earlier in this Report are justified. 
I simply mention those conclusions of the PJT to draw attention to the fact that an inflated system of charges was operating. All fault does not lie with the work force. That brings me back to the point made by the honourable member for Wilmot who tried to push the responsibility on to the work force itself. 
Much criticism is made of our waterfronts, port handling systems and transport industries generally and marine transport particularly. Some of this criticism is informed; much of it is uninformed. A great deal more of it is made for political purposes rather than for the purpose of trying to find a solution to the problems that exist. Let me refer to a few statements made by the Minister for Transport. I refer to a comment in the  Age  of 19 August 1976 in an article by Tony Thomas which referred to a strong attack by the Minister for Transport on the waterfront unions made in Federal Parliament on the previous day.  Mr Thomas  was referring to a Dorothy Dix question asked in this House of the Minister for Transport about the number of strikes and stoppages on the waterfront in Melbourne. I can recall the day when the Minister used the occasion to ridicule those workmen. After all, that is their station in life. They are human beings. They are Australians. The Minister went out of his way to ridicule them and to exacerbate a difficult and delicate situation. 
One of the things the Minister said was that those workers were not at work because it was their picnic day. Surely we all know that towns have show days. I do not see that a picnic day, which is part of an award which a government endorses, is anything to ridicule. All those pinpricking nonsense exercises aggravate people. Such action to me indicates the height of irresponsibility on the part of those who sit opposite and who continually claim to be responsible. The editorial of the  Daily Commercial News,  one of our shipping newspapers, of 8 July 1977 states: 
The Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, has been a politician long enough to know better than to make wild statements. 
Commenting on the statement that the Minister had made on the incidence of waterfront strikes which was out of context and inaccurate when compared with the review over the year of the number of stoppages, the editorial states: 
His statement was probably ill-conceived and possibly misunderstood. 
The editorial went on to state that the number of stoppages was in fact down and not up at all. It continues: 
Whichever way the Minister cares to look at the figures, they are down . . . Far be it for this or any other newspaper to condone stoppages- but there are stoppages and stoppages. 
Here again the thrust of that editorial is to draw attention to the action of the Minister in deliberately using a sensitive area of our transport industry for snort term political gain. Who pays? The community pays in disruption, the primary producers pay in delays in getting their product to market and we as a nation pay in terms of foreign exchange in that we are not getting our goods overseas. Our reliability record suffers. In this game it seems that on the other side of the House there are no holds barred and that what happens does not matter because the unions can always be blamed. If we are to have an efficient industry and if we are to have some sort of leadership, the role of a Government and particularly the role of a Minister is to provide leadership, to avoid and to solve problems, and not to set out deliberately to create difficulties and flash stoppages. That, unfortunately, is the history of the National Country Party in this House. 
Let me point to another contradiction of the same Minister. In April this year, the Minister for Transport noted that Australia's waterfront charges were one of the world's highest for container traffic. He noted that the price of handling a 40 foot container on a Sydney wharf was $308 while in San Francisco it was a mere $65. Comparisons about port handling charges cannot be made in such an easy way. The port handling industry is complex. Many different factors are involved. The factors vary from port to port and include such things as the type of equipment that is being used, the age of the work force, the amount of space that is available at the wharf, the number of cranes available and the number of holds that can be operated at any one time. One of the silly comparisons I hear often quoted is that a vessel can be put into Rotterdam and unloaded in 24 hours but if it was put into Melbourne unloading would take several days. The equipment is not comparable. Cargo is not located in similar positions in the holds. A portion of the cargo would be removed in Melbourne whereas all the cargo may be removed in Rotterdam. I am saying these things to illustrate the complexity of the industry. If we are to make a better and more efficient transport service in this country, let us deal with facts and rationality and let us seriously try to find solutions and above all let us try to develop goodwill. The Opposition sees its role as developing goodwill. I might say that it is extremely difficult sometimes in the face of the information that comes from honourable members opposite and the abuse that comes from honourable members opposite towards trade unions to persevere in that land of task. 
Having said that, I turn to remarks made on behalf of the Minister for Transport on 6 May 1976, a bare few weeks later. The information was given in response to a question asked in the Senate by one of the Minister's own colleagues,  Senator Carrick,  who represents the Minister in that place. The answer, which I am about to read, and which relates to the same subject of container costs, gives the truth. The answer was in reply to a question which asked why handling charges for 40 foot containers was so high in Australia. Part of the answer which appears in Senate  Hansard  on page 1610 on 6 May 1976 reads: 
There may have been some differences in the circumstances applying to the development of container traffic in Australia. Initially, the volume of 40 foot containers was very low and terminal operators faced additional investment and set-up costs to handle 40 foot containers. These factors may have justified a heavy surcharge for 40-foot containers some years ago but this may be no longer the case. It is difficult to make accurate comparisons of container handling charges because of the different bases used for measuring working time and constraints inherent in the layout of a particular facility. There is some evidence, however, that handling rates generally applying in Australia are somewhat lower than those generally achieved overseas. 
There is the proof of the humbug of the Minister for Transport on this most important issue. There in print in the Senate  Hansard  is the true situation which gives the lie to the nonsense that is raised in this House which damages severely the kind of goodwill we are trying to create in the transport industry and particularly in the port handling area. I make a plea on behalf of the industry and on behalf of the consumers that the Government, in its last couple of days at least, leaves the unions alone and sets about trying to develop a spirit of goodwill in reducing charges and achieving a higher rate of efficiency. I mention one last matter. How much do port handling charges cost? Some 38.9 per cent of the Australian National Line costs last year comprised port handling charges. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Transport, relates to the 308 hectares of land at Darriman in the Minister's electorate purchased by the Government for the Omega base. I ask: What was the price paid for the land? Is it a fact that the price paid for the land was above prices for comparable land in the area and well above the value of the land having regard to its usage at the time of purchase? Further, is the vendor known personally to the Minister and his family and is it a fact that the vendor is that well-known supporter of the National Country Party,  Mr John  McDonald of Sale? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1977: 
1 ) Is his Department investigating the grounding of the Norwegian tanker  Morgedal  in Western Australia in July 1977. 
If so, (a) when does he expect the investigation will be completed, (b) on whose initiation is the investigation taking place, (c) what is the name, classification and employing agency of each (i) Australian Government officer and (ii) State Government officer working on the investigation. 
Will he undertake to table in the Parliament the report of the investigation. 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Daily Commercial News  of 25 July 1977 stating that the West Australian Minister for Transport has asked the Fremantle Port Authority for recommendations on how to avoid a similar grounding. 
If so, will his Department's investigation take these recommendations into account when preparing its report. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an incident involving the tanker  B.P. Endeavour  and a 23 ft boat off Diamond Bay, New South Wales, on 14 August 1 977. If so, what action has he taken in respect of the accident. 
Is he able to say what were the circumstances involved, and what steps can be taken to prevent similar incidents in the future. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
What were the operating results of the Australian National Line vessel  Darwin Trader  in its service to Darwin for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 October 1977: 
Did he tell me in answer to question No. 1207  (Hansard,  8 September 1977, page 995) that he expected the Bureau of Transport Economic 's study of the freight transport needs of the Northern Territory to be completed by the end of September. 
) If so, has he now seen the report. 
Will he undertake to table the report in the Parliament. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Transport I hope that he will be able to answer it without reference to gaseous ejections. The Minister will recall confirming yesterday that  Mr John  McDonald was the vendor of the Omega land and was personally known to him. Is it not a fact that there are vendors of the property being purchased? If so, are those vendors John McDonald and Great Gippsland Farms Pty Ltd in which three Japanese companies hold a substantial shareholding? Maybe the directors are personally known to him also. Is it a fact that the company had a deficiency in shareholders funds of $921,186? In the light of the Victorian land scandal, is this another case of helping out the mates? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. He will recall telling the House last Thursday, as reported in  Hansard: 
Let me assure the House that I have no knowledge of the activities of the Department of Administrative Services. That Department is totally independent of my Department. 
The Minister will recall also telling the honourable member for Chifley on Friday that he recommended a local stock and station agent to participate in the purchase of land for the Omega base on the ground that it was part of his normal representations. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that he requested a local stock and station agent to be appointed to act on behalf of the Australian Government because, in his own words, he thought he could act more discreetly? Secondly, I ask the Minister: In the light of his statement in the House on Thursday is it a fact that in December 1976 he personally telephoned the Secretary of the Department of Administrative Services querying the way in which investigations into the possible sites for the Omega facility were being handled? Was he not informed later that the officers of that Department had acted meticulously according to the instructions given by the Department of Transport? Why has the Minister misled the House? 
-I have not finished putting the motion yet,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
-The legislation now before the chamber is legislation that could and should have been brought before the Parliament many years ago, at least in 1 973, but for me political bloody-mindedness of the Premier of Queensland, and in this respect I have to include the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in that reference to the Premier of Queensland because they are colleagues in the same Party. 
The purpose of the Bill is to amend the Australian Shipping Commission Act so as to enable the Australian National Line to provide an intrastate service to ports along the Queensland coast- a much needed service- and to make certain other amendments to the Act that would bring the style of operations and the presentation of accounts of the ANL more in keeping with current commercial practice. I will have more to say about that at a later stage. 
I just want to dwell for a moment on the many years that have passed in which the people of north Queensland have sought to have a service provided for their ports by the ANL. It is only in the current State election campaign in Queensland- and I suspect in the Federal election campaign that has now developed herethat there has been urgency finally to make a decision in response to the wishes of the people of north Queensland. In the current election campaign in Queensland a concerted effort has been mounted by candidates in the northern sections of Queensland to press the Queensland Parliament to legislate so that the ANL can operate into those Queensland ports on an intrastate basis. The present Minister, as I said, must share some responsibility for this, if only because he and the Premier of Queensland are members of the same party. 
All sorts of spurious excuses were given by the Premier of Queensland during the period of opposition to this legislation to allow the ANL to move into Queensland. Honourable members will recall that one of the first acts of the Whitlam Government early in 1973 was to ask the Queensland Government to come to an agreement with the national Government for an amendment to the Australian Shipping Commission Act so that intrastate shipping services could be provided for Queensland. At the time, and in subsequent periods right up until a few weeks ago, the Queensland Government maintained that the provision of an intrastate Queensland shipping service by the ANL would disadvantage existing surface transport employees and certainly would mean a reduction in the potential income of the Queensland railways and the laying off of large numbers of Queensland railway employees. That claim by the Queensland Premier had been refuted consistently and persistently by officials of the Australian Railways Union in Queensland. At least the Opposition welcomes now the belated appearance of this legislation. It is long overdue. His earlier entry has been prevented - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I call the honourable member for Shortland. 
-The Transport Planning and Research (Financial Assistance) Bill 1977 is to cover the payment of financial assistance to the States for transport planning and research. The appropriation of 8m for disbursement to the States is provided by Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1977-78. The Bill continues financial assistance to the States on a $2 for $ 1 basis for the current financial year only. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  stated m his second reading speech that funding would be on a dollar for dollar basis in 1978-79 and 1979-80. No mention is made of this change in the Bill. Once again this represents a reduction in Federal assistance to the States, particularly in respect of planning and research. 
The $8m provided in the 1976-77 Budget for transport planning and research represented a fall in cash terms of $700,000 on the amount provided in 1975-76- a fall in real terms of 16 per cent. The Fraser Government's 1977-78 allocation of $8m is in effect a 12 per cent fall in real terms on the 1976-77 figure. So one can say that there has been a substantial reduction in real terms in the level of funding by the Federal Government for the purposes provided for under this legislation between 1975-76 and the current financial year. The Whitlam Government provided the States with $26m over the triennium from 1974-75 to 1976-77 for transport research. The Fraser Government has provided $24m for the next triennium, maybe. I will return to that a little later in my remarks, in the analysis of the level of funds that may be provided in 1978-79 and 1979-80. A comparison of the amounts provided in this triennium with the amount provided by the Whitlam Government in the first three years that the legislation operated shows a fall in real terms of the order of 50 per cent. 
The Bill essentially continues the arrangements provided in the Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974. It also is designed to refine certain administrative aspects of the Act to take account of minor alterations which needed to be made following the successful first triennium of the Act. In introducing the 1974 legislation the 
Minister for Transport at the time, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  said: 
There is a major need for more sophisticated planning and research in Australia in regard to all transport modes. The provision of assistance under this Act will be directed towards developing in the States more comprehensive processes than hitherto existed. 
The Whitlam Government's Transport (Planning and Research) Act was the first significant move by an Australian government towards assessing Australia's transport research potential, towards collecting and exchanging information between the authorities undertaking research and organisations involved in transport planning, and towards improving the coordination and efficiency of Australia s transport research and planning capabilities. Consequently, the Act recognised the range of transport resources existing in Australia at both State and Federal levels in government departments and authorities and in tertiary institutions. It also recognised the need not only to achieve co-ordination between these sources of information but also to identify the many areas of common interest and to establish objectives for future transport research. 
The research and planning program allows transport planners to draw on the skills of a range of associated disciplines such as sociology economics and environmental science. The Act was aimed at encouraging and ensuring that Australia's transport is developed to take account of the technical and social changes taking place in the Australian community. The program's continued success and effectiveness are dependent on continued co-operation and coordination between the States and the Australian Government. On 24 August 1976 the Minister for Transport tabled the report on the first 18 months of the operation of the 1974 Act. The report detailed 500 projects covering a broad range of items, including traffic management, cycle safety and planning, motor vehicle design, transport provisions for handicapped travellers, school bus safety, and public transport noise, freight and management. 
Under the Whitlam Labor Government's legislation, financial assistance was provided to the States for research into road safety. This allocation was in recognition of the important role the States had to play in this area. The Australian Labor Party Government established a road safety authority to foster research into this important area, to advance consumer protection in relation to motor vehicles, and to promote road safety issues. By contrast, in the first six months of the Fraser Government the authority was abolished and the Government undertook to establish an office of road safety. I understand that to the moment the office of road safety has not been established because of wrangling within the Department and wrangling between the Department and the Government over the manning of the office of road safety. 
The substantial reduction in funds provided for in this legislation is a further indication of the low priority accorded to road safety issues by the present Government. One intention of the Labor Government's legislation was to broaden the scope of transport research so as to consider each transport mode in relation to other modes as a part of the entire transport task. To obtain the optimum results we need to achieve an optimum inter-modal mix of all transport modes, and particularly roads and urban public transport. To this end, Labor's transport research legislation ensured that urban public transport projects were considered in relation to road projects. The Bill before the House continues this approach and extends the provisions of the legislation so as to include planning and research into all land transport modes as well as the inter-relationship between land and other transport functions. In addition, the planning and research programs allows adequate consideration of options before a proposal requiring major public investment is undertaken. It also allows for reappraisal or modification of a program before its completion. 
Research which will be funded under this Bill when it becomes an Act in areas such as urban public transport may produce projects which could be funded under the Urban Public Transport Agreement of 1974. It also may provide areas which could be funded under the Minor Traffic Engineering and Road Safety Improvements Program under a section of the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977. In assessing a program to be funded under this Act, continued emphasis needs to be given to projects which identify and assess the future allocation of transport resources in Australia and developments in policy that impinge on transport planning. This involves the continuing changes that are taking place in Australia's population, the changes that are taking place in the way Australians want to live and also where they want to live, the interdependence of transport modes, the declining sources of fossil fuels, the increasing need to seek out alternative sources of energy and alternative forms of transport, and the resource requirements of time, space, loss of life and damage caused by pollution. The research and planning program needs to continue to assist in overcoming the problems associated with harmonising State and Federal transport undertakings to give proper consideration to the difficulties arising in transport issues and to help to make adequate plans for future transport policymaking. 
As I said, the Bill is in essence a continuation of the original Act, the Transport and Planning Research Act 1974, introduced by the Whitlam Government and by the then Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones. The amendments to it in terms of simplification of administrative arrangements and expansion to take in research into all land transport modes the Opposition believes are desirable and it does not oppose the Bill. 
I do, however, want to offer criticism of the level of funding provided under the Bill. I refer to the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport. Unless one reads closely the concluding sentence of that speech, one is very apt to misunderstand the real meaning of the sentence. It reads: 
We recognise that continuity of funding is very important in a program like this and we have already told the States that for 1978-79 and 1979-80 we are prepared to contribute our share on a dollar for dollar basis of a total program - 
I emphasise the words 'total program'- maintained at the 1977-78 level in real terms. 
One would think at first sight that that meant that since $8m has been provided this year, the subsequent vote under this Act, in each of the following two years, would be $8m in real terms at 1977 prices and expressed in whatever amount that equals in 1978-79 or 1979-80. But that is not the case. We need to remember that the Minister stated also that the funding for this year was on a $2 for $1 basis. So on a two for one basis this year, the Federal Government is providing $8m. The States ' share would be $4m. So the total program of funding for planning and research, State and Federal combined, in the current year is $12m. We recall that the Minister also mentioned in his speech- and it is mentioned in the Bill- that funding for the next two years will be on a dollar for dollar basis. This means then that since $ 12m is the total program for this year, the Federal Government's share of that total program- the maximum limit to it- will be $6m in each of the years 1978-79 and 1979-80. If we take those two years together, the total maximum commitment of $6m for each of those two years is $12m. Adding to that amount the $8m for this year, the total amount is $20m. So the triennium funding expressed in 1977 prices is $20m compared with the sum of $26m provided in the triennium 1974-77 under the Whitlam program. Quite clearly this is further evidence of the phasing out of safety aspects, and more particularly of research and planning. 
The Bill is a major step in a phasing out of Federal Government commitment to transport and planning research. In the first instance there is the reduction of funding from a $2 for $1 basis to a $1 for $1 basis. 
-I am quite sure that I am right but if the honourable member can prove that I am wrong I will be happy to listen to him. 
-That is why you are so impressed. Secondly, there has been a limit of $6m in the years 1978-79 and 1979-80. So the limit of $ 12m for each of those two successive years and the $8m this year, amounting to $20m in total contrasts with the $26m provided under the Whitlam Government. 
I should like to mention at the same time another area of activity in the Department of Transport that in a way relates to that, that is, the Bureau of Roads. Here again is an organisation carrying out research activities in many ways into Australia's road needs and recommending to government the level of financial assistance that ought to be given to the States for the construction, upgrading and maintenance of roads. Linked to that is the Government's decision, which I mentioned earlier, to abolish the independent authority known as the Road Safety and Standards Authority. Activities under the Transport and Planning Research Act, the Bureau of Roads and the Road Safety and Standards Authority are all related in that they deal in the main with roads, the use of roads, and the use of associated transport facilities, particularly passenger transport. In each of those three areas there has been a substantial downgrading by the present Government in terms of funding and of priority. I take this opportunity to assure the House that the next Labor Government would be acting quite promptly to restore to road safety and to road transport planning and research the proper financial priority to which safety measures, particularly roads, are entitled. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
Debate interrupted. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek your indulgence. During the course of my remarks earlier I said that the provisions for funding on a dollar for dollar basis are not contained in the Bill. I have read my notes again. I was in error. I would like to have my remarks corrected. That provision is contained in the Bill. 
-The Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill 1977 seeks authority for the Treasurer to give a guarantee on behalf of the Australian Government for loans to be raised by Ansett Transport Industries to enable the company to finance the purchase of its eighth Boeing 727-200 series passenger aircraft. It is in line with previous Bills of a similar nature which have been passed by the House on earlier occasions when Ansett Transport Industries has purchased aircraft for its fleet. The Bill is a routine measure and as such the Opposition does not oppose it 
In bis second reading speech the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  canvassed a wide range of matters pertaining to the aviation industry. I shall address my remarks to some of the issues that the Minister raised. One of the great problems facing the aviation industry is the selection of aircraft, and the facilities available at airports and the capacities of airports. One of the best documents to which honourable members could refer would be the recent publication of statistics of domestic scheduled airline performance for the year ended 30 September 1977. I wish to draw attention to some of the figures that are shown in relation to three aspects: Firstly, passengers; secondly, freight; and thirdly, mail. In the year ending September 1977 Trans-Australia Airlines flew 3.2 per cent more hours but carried 7 per cent more passengers, a 11.6 per cent increase in freight and a 12 per cent increase in mail on what was carried in the previous year. Similarly, Ansett Transport Industries with a 0.3 per cent increase in hours flown carried 2.7 per cent more passengers, 2.5 per cent more freight and 3.3 per cent more mail. 
Without going into the details of the other internal airlines shown in the document, such as Airlines of New South Wales, East West Airlines, MacRobertson-Miller Airline Services, Connair, Qantas and Airlines of South Australia, I want to remark on the total figures for the industry for the year ended September. Looking at the total hours flown we find that there has been a decrease of 1.1 per cent in that year. But the number of passengers carried rose by 4.6 per cent. The domestic airlines carried 9,690 million passengers in the year ending September. As I said that was a 4.6 per cent increase. There was a 5.2 per cent increase in freight and a 5.7 per cent increase in mail carried. I have mentioned those figures to show evidence of increased utilisation of aircraft. Much is said about lower air fares and airport capacities but there is a basic equation as I see it to lower air fares; that is, higher load factors equal lower air fares. The better utilisation and the more people in aircraft on trips the greater the possibilities of lowering the fare for that journey. Those figures show what is happening. 
At the same time when we come to the figures for our perennial problem of Mascot they show a reduction in hours flown and an increase in passengers carried. In the year ended September 1977 at Mascot there were 82,138 aircraft movements, a reduction of 0.5 per cent on the figures for the previous year. But 4.983 million passengers were moved through Mascot. That is an increase of 5.5 per cent. So there was very little reduction in the number of aircraft movements but a substantial increase in the number of passengers. Probably the use of larger aircraft would be a factor as also would be better load factors and better utilisation of facilities. 
Turning to Brisbane, we find that Brisbane airport had 34,799 aircraft movements which carried 2. 144 million passengers. An increase in aircraft movements of 1.4 per cent was more than countered by an increase in passengers of 4.4 per cent. It is the same story. Melbourne is probably the best example. In that same period Tullamarine airport had 66,662 aircraft movements and handled 4.295 million passengers. There was a reduction in aircraft movements at the airport of 2.2 per cent but an increase in the number of people handled of 5.2 per cent. That brings us back to the basic equation that lower air fares, in the main, equal higher load factors and better utilisation of the industry's facilities. 
Much criticism is made from time to time by our political opponents about what happened at Mascot or Brisbane or at other airports. But the simple fact is that for 25 out of the past 28 years -almost for the total period of the development of major civil aircraft operations in Australiathe conservatives who now sit opposite have been responsible. They have been the administrators. Whatever shortcomings exist in our aircraft industry the responsibility lies at their feet. In its relationship with the government the industry sees a problem of uncertainty as to what are the Government's intentions and what should be the guidelines for the industry. I can best evidence this by quoting from  Aircraft  magazine of October 1977 which reports a statement of the  chairman  of the Australian National Airlines Commission,  Mr Vial.  The magazine states: 
Sydney airport's serious problem of traffic congestion and increasing noise annoyance could reasonably be met only by early introduction of wide-bodied jet aircraft on domestic air services,  Mr Viall  has warned. 'But the airlines cannot be expected to place orders for larger, more efficient, but capital intensive new equipment in a situation characterised by falling or stagnant traffic growth, and faced with the prospect of ever-increasing government imposts leading inevitably to still more daunting fare increases,' he said. 'To do so would be an act of financial irresponsibility.' 

 Mr Viall was certainly referring to the conditions as they were. In recent times conditions have improved in terms of passenger growth but I think his statement points out the uncertainty that faces the industry in relation to what are the Government's intentions. 
In relation to Mascot I now refer to the publication put out by the  Major Airport  Needs of 
Sydney committee. Again we run into the problem of knowing what the Government wants to do. It does not want to discuss it publicly. Friction has developed, as I understand it, between the New South Wales Government and the Federal Government in regard to the activities of the MANS committee. On page 5 of the report it states: 
Traffic Management Schemes 
This study looked at ways of more effectively using Kingsford-Smith airport without building additional runways. It also considered excluding some types of air-traffic, and reducing some services. 
Consideration is being given to the implementation of some of these measures in the near future. 
I want to go on from that to deal with the dilemma that is facing the operators of commuter aircraft in Australia at the moment, but particularly in New South Wales. Quite a campaign has been developing around that problem. The Minister recently, as I recall his statement as accurately as I can, said that there is to be no discrimination, or no discrimination against commuter aircraft, that there is no move to shift commuter aircraft out of Mascot, but a system of priority based on weight has been developed. I put it to the Parliament that that, is exactly a means of forcing the commuter operators out of Mascot. The effect is the same. The larger the aircraft, the higher the priority it has. It means that commuter aircraft have to circle for longer periods than commercial aircraft. That increases their fuel consumption. It causes a delay in their time- tabling and they cannot maintain their services and connections. So they have either to put up with providing that kind of service or to move out. On page 9 of its report the MANS Committee states: 
For example, the governments may decide to introduce certain operational procedures immediately, and to accept in principle the concept of a second airport at a particular site. However, it may be decided that the initial planning stages should not commence for a number of years, or until the demand for air travel exceeds a certain number of passengers or aircraft. 
Then, more significantly on page 1 1, it continues to say in relation to commuter aircraft: 
Over the years, measures have been proposed which could lead to more efficient use of existing faculties at KingsfordSmith. These have included: 
Excluding certain classes of traffic, such as general aviation, commuter services and some nights within New South Wales. At present 25 per cent of all aircraft movements at Kingsford-Smith are general aviation (mostly small aircraft). 
A later suggestion is the placing of a surcharge on aircraft movements at Kingsford-Smith. That surcharge would be passed on as higher air fares which may reduce the demand for air travel. In effect, those charges would be punitive. Their purpose would be to discourage aircraft from using the airport. That brings us back to the claim that is being made by the commuter operators. I know that the commuter operators, in their discussions and in their concern about what the Government has in mind, have displayed deep concern about a discussion which took place between themselves and some officers associated with a review of the operation of Kingsford-Smith. In that discussion the Federal officers are reported to have put a very strong line for the exclusion of commuter aircraft from Kingsford-Smith Airport. I know that the Minister has said that the commuter aircraft industry is over-reacting. I put it to the Parliament once again that there is very good evidence to support the view that the commuter operators are taking, and that is the verbal exchanges which took place in relation to commuter aircraft. Those exchanges are not on record, as I understand it, but certainly a discussion took place. 
The  Australian Financial Review  of 26 October reports a decision made by the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association. That Association queried the separation times at Mascot for lighter aircraft. Again this is a matter that needs to be taken into account. As was mentioned at the Association's meeting- I raised this point earlier- the separation standards and the associated delays caused unnecessary loss of time and waste of fuel without enhancing safety. One of the inter-city air services, Aero-Pelican Inter City Commuter Air Services Pty Ltd on which I often travel, said that if graded landing priorities were introduced to Mascot it would be the end of small commuter air services.  Mr Hilder,  the manager, was commenting on the proposal of the Department of Transport to place the small commuter services at the bottom of the landing priority scale. He went on to say: 
If we are given a 'D' priority, they are actually telling us that the people of New South Wales do not have as much right to use their own airport as the people of another State do. 
So there are good and genuine grounds for the fears of the commuter operators about their future and their access to the airport. The responsibility lies with the Minister and with the Department. In matters such as this more good is achieved by the people responsible coming out into the open and putting the facts on the table in front of the people concerned than by leaving them to be dealt with by departmental memos, exchanges between governments, secret documents and secret reports. 
I now turn to the relationship between the aviation industry and the Minister. From reports I have received from within the industry and from the unions, I doubt whether the relationship between the Department of Transport and the industry has ever been at a lower level than it is at present. The industry's disenchantment with government stems from the failure of the Minister to implement the promises he made in the 197S election campaign. At the time he said he would recreate a separate Department of Air. He has not done that. Instead, he has confirmed the role of the expanded Department of Transport which he inherited. He said there would be a halt to increased air navigation charges. Instead, he increased them by 30 per cent within the first 12 months of coming to office. He said that increases in the industry's costs needed to be stabilised. Yet he endorsed a Budget decision to increase the excise on Avtur, thus bringing about an increase of almost 3 per cent in domestic air fares and the prospect of further heavy increases in the price of Avtur under his Government's energy pricing policy and policies which have been supported by him, as a senior Cabinet Minister, m the Cabinet room. 

 His attempt to introduce new regulatory charges for services provided to aviation industry personnel sparked off a protest campaign against himself such as has not been seen in Australia previously. He has postponed the introduction of the new charges, but obviously he hopes to introduce them after 10 December if, regrettably, this Government should be returned to office. It is no wonder that the industry is disenchanted with his performance. I do not believe that any other Minister has taken unto himself the power that this Minister has in the management of his Department. 
Since December 1975 we have seen a plethora of secret inquiries into transport, particularly aviation. Let me list just a few of them. The Aviation Industry Review Committee, chaired by  Sir Lennox  Hewitt, was appointed in March 1976 to examine cost recovery in the aviation industry. No report has been presented to Parliament. I shall come back to that matter later. I refer also to the scandalous McNeil Committee of Inquiry into Australian Government transport undertakings. That was an inquiry conducted by competitors of, clients of and suppliers to the Australian Government transport enterprises. No report has been presented to Parliament, despite repeated requests to the Minister to do so. I refer also to the interdepartmental committee which inquired into the provision of Northern Territory aerial services, with particular reference to Connair Pry 
Ltd. I have asked the Minister to table the report, but the best answer I have received is that which he gave to question No. 1 805, when he said: 
The decisions of the Government, which are based to some extent on the report - 
That is the report of the interdepartmental committee- and the recommendations contained therein, are open to parliamentary scrutiny and judgment. 
In other words, the Minister is saying: 'We will have a look at the report; we will get the facts; we will make a decision; you can argue about whether the decision is right or wrong, but you cannot have the information'. It is interesting to note that on page 8 of the Minister's second reading speech he says: 
I myself had a number of quite frank discussions with the  Chairman  of Connair,  Mr £.  J.  Connellan. 
That is not good enough. Parliament needs to be told the facts and the factors involved. It needs to be told whether there is justification for the action which the Government is taking so that the matter can be examined publicly. It could well be- I emphasise this- that Connair is being disadvantaged by the course of action which the Government, and the Minister in particular, is following. We do not know the facts. I do not have access to the information. I am sure that the Parliament does not have that access. But if the information was laid on the table where it could be discussed and assessed in the public view, it may well be discovered that Connair and the people of the Northern Territory are entitled to a better level of air services than they are receiving under this Government 
I refer now to the Domestic Aviation Policy Review Committee. Again, the report of that Committee is privy to the Minister. The report brought down following the Review of International Civil Aviation Policy again is privy to the Minister. People and organisations could make a submission to that Review and if the person or organisation concerned published that submission it would be available for scrutiny. But we have the ludicrous situation of two separate review committees looking at the same subject and their terms of inquiry overlapping. That creates waste and extravagance. No report has been presented to Parliament and no public hearings were conducted. All I can say is: More power to the Minister, more opportunity for back room deals. That is the only conclusion that one can draw when a government does not want to bring information related to the aviation industry out into the open. It must have something to hide. The question is: What? The Minister is left with more power and is in the position to negotiate, to give out largesse. That may not be the situation, but one cannot blame people for taking that view. 
We in the Opposition have been saying that there is a need for a full scale public inquiry into civil aviation. Until that happens, air travellers in Australia will continue to be disadvantaged. Their needs and wants and the industry's answers should be dealt with in a public forum. As I have said, air travellers will continue to be disadvantaged in terms of frequency of services, level of fares and quality of travel. I come back to this basic equation: Lower fares equal higher load factors. How do we achieve that result and how do we at the same time meet the community's needs in terms of services? 
Those 3 million migrants in Australia who were not born here have a special interest in the lowering of air fares. They are the people who would like to put a submission to a public inquiry. But that will not happen under this Government; no way. Such inquiries have to be conducted behind closed doors, and the Minister will feed out what he thinks we are entitled to see. But migrants are getting the same kind of second and third class treatment in this area of lower air fares as they are getting from the Government in other areas such as migrant education. At least what the Government is doing in this area is in line with its performance in other areas. 
The aviation industry needs to know what the guidelines are and where it is going, especially because of the high capital investment involved and the long lead-in time required in purchasing suitable aircraft and equipment. With the present Minister for Transport and this dilatory government, it is no wonder that the industry is perplexed. I have not been able to get from the Minister a copy of the report of the Hewitt Committee but I have here what is probably part of the conclusions of that report. I will tell the Parliament the reason the Minister will not table this report. The  Chairman  is  Sir Lenox  Hewitt. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that public servants may steal documents when it is in the public interest. This morning we sought to move a motion disagreeing with that statement and you voted against it. Do not raise that kind of question about stolen documents. You voted in favour of stolen documents. 
This is not a Public Service document. One paragraph in this document states: 
The existing degree of recovery from the aviation industry is excessive because of the composition of the costs and of the offsetting items of revenue and by comparison of that achieved elsewhere in the transport industry. . . . Met. services provided to the aviation industry exceed its requirements and the industry is not paid for the data it provides the met. bureau. 
It shows that the recovery rate for international airlines is 160 per cent, from domestic trunk airlines 130 per cent, from rural airlines about 40 per cent and from commuter general aviation 20 per cent. The overall recovery, according to the report of members of this Committee, is 85 per cent. That is quite different from what the Minister said in his speech. The document continues: 
Environmental factors mean heavy costs for airlines in diversionary flying for noise reasons, curfews on the use of airport facilities which mean about 25 per cent of idle capacity. 
It mentions rentals and leases. The concluding paragraph, which I shall read, explains why the Minister will not table the report. It states: 
The organisation of the Department of Transport in its regions is of concern. These employ more than 80 per cent of total departmental staff. There appear to be costly duplications and regional civil aviation staff are becoming involved in multi modal activities at the expense of aviation and much of these activities are adequately catered for by existing State transport departments and organisations. 
That is the reason. The Minister has refused to table the report because that Committee came up with a report critical of the Department. In the interests of the industry it ought to be tabled. 
A lawyer like you would not know the difference. I want to raise now a matter that I am reluctant to raise. 
-I am reluctant to raise it, but I have informed the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  that I propose to raise it. I informed him yesterday. I am prompted to raise it because I saw on the Australian Broadcasting Commission a few weeks ago a film of a person who was wearing a short sleeve striped shirt and sunglasses screaming out to  Senator Georges  when he was being arrested in Brisbane: 'I am a member of the House of Representatives, and you ought to be ashamed of yourself. It was the honourable member for Brisbane. That was on the ABC news on a Saturday screening. It was screened several times. No doubt millions of Australians saw it On 18 October I received a telephone call from a distressed lady complaining about the honourable member for Brisbane. Honourable members may recall that that was the day the Lufthansa captain was murdered at Mogadishu airport and there was revulsion throughout the world at the whole subject of hijacking. The lady said that all of us- I agree with her- as members of parliament have a responsibility to set an example by our behaviour to the law and our services to and requirements in the community, particularly in relation to security checks at airports. 
The complaint from this lady was that the honourable member for Brisbane had refused to undergo security checks at an airport- this had been witnessed by her neighbour- a scene was created and the staff refused to carry on working unless he went through the security check like anybody else. I think that is fair. I think all of us would agree. I think we ought to be setting an example. Because he acted in the way he did when  Senator Georges  was arrested, I think it is my responsibility - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
What are the guidelines for the provision of private hire cars and taxis in lieu of Commonwealth cars at (a) Canberra and (b) each of the capital cities. 
Why are Commonwealth car drivers subject to security checks and regular health checks when these checks are not required for hire car drivers anad taxi drivers. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 October 1977: 
What were the road freight rates applicable in the Northern Territory by category of goods or livestock as at (a) 30 June 1 975, (b) 30 June 1976 and (c) 30 June 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 977: 
1 ) How many persons were employed in each category of employment by North Australia Railways as at (a) 30 June 1976 and (b) 30 June 1977. 
What are the future services proposed to be provided by North Australia Railways. 
What is the present state of repair of (a) workshops and buildings at each location and (b) railway tracks which were under the control of North Australia Railways as at 30 June 1976. 
What was the expenditure and income of North Australia Railways in 1976-77, and what are the estimated comparative figures for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 October 1977: 
Further to Question No. 1425  (Hansard,  30 November 1976, page 301 1), what were the results of the investigations into complaints he received from the Aus.tralian Federation of Air Pilots in respect of the operation of air services by South Australian and Territorial Air Services. 
What action has he taken following the completion of the investigation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 October 1977: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 1427  (Hansard,  30 November 1976, page 30 1 1 ), is he able to say if the interdepartmental inquiry into the future of air services in the Northern Territory has been completed. 
If so, what were the results of the inquiry. 
Will he table in the Parliament the report of the inquiry. If not, why not 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 October 1977: 
1) Has he received a request to upgrade the road from Darwin to Boulia, and the building of a new road link to Tibooburra, New South Wales. 
If so, what are the names and employing agencies of each of the individuals who made representations to him seeking the road link, and when were the representations made. 
Has he agreed to undertake to upgrade and construct the road link. If not, why not. 
What is the projected cost of the road link. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has the Minister travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied the Minister on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of the Minister and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on S October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Sun Herald  newspaper of 18 September 1977 relating to alleged frauds involving the sale of London to Sydney airline tickets. 
If so, is he able to say if there is any substance in the allegations, if so 
What Australian airlines are involved 
What losses have been incurred or are likely to be incurred by each of these airlines; and 
What action, corrective or otherwise has he taken in respect of the events reported 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 197S to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary, of all persons who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on S October 1977: 
On what occasions and for what purposes has the Attorney-General and his predecessor travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 1 975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied them on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of each of them and each person who travelled with them on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department 's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1 976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice on 15 September 1977: 
1 ) What reviews, studies or inquiries relating to transport have been initiated by him since 1 1 November 1975. 
On what date was each initiated. 
Which ones have been completed. 
What action has been taken to table in the Parliament the reports of those completed. 
What progress has been made in those inquiries not yet completed, and when is it expected each will be completed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice on 5 October 1977: 
Has his Department undertaken a study into the impact that international airlines carrying passengers between Australian capital cities have on Australia's domestic carriers. 
If so, (a) what specific aspects of this question will the study be investigating, (b) when does he expect the report to be completed, (c) what prompted him to call on his Department to undertake the study, (d) will the study team be seeking submissions from (i) international airlines operating in Australia on domestic air routes and (ii) Australia 's domestic carriers, (e) what branches of his Department does the study involve and (f) will he table in the Parliament the report of the study; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
1 ) Has the experience of Qantas shown that the new fare structure introduced earlier in 1977 for seasonal variations for shoulder, peak and through travel has resulted in a stimulus to, Australia to United Kingdom, or United Kingdom to Australia, traffic. 
How any persons have purchased rickets for travel each way in each month since the new fares were introduced. 
What were the comparative ticket sales for the same months in 1976. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
Did he tell me in answer to question No. 950  (Hansard,  2 June 1977, page 2596) that the Department of Transport had instituted an inquiry into all aspects of the question of carriage of international passengers by international air carriers between Australian cities. 
If so, has the inquiry been completed and will he make the results public. 
If the inquiry is incomplete, when does he expect it to be finalised and will he undertake to make its report public. 
What are the names and classifications of the officers carrying out the inquiry. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 197S to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled  overseas  during the period 1 1 November 1 975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has the Minister travelled overseas during the period 11 November 1 975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied the Minister on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of the Minister and each person who travelled with her on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Productivity upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas during the period 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
What was the name, classification and salary of all persons who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
What amounts of his Department 's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-/7. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1 976-/7. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent 
asked the Minister for Productivity on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) What amounts of bis Department 's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 1 8 October, 1 977: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 1157  (Hansard,  7 October 1 976, page 1713), has the Government completed its evaluation of the options canvassed in the Bureau of Transport Economics Report on the Provision of General Cargo Facilities at Port Darwin; if so, what was the result? 
What financial provisions have been made in the 1977- 78 Budget arising from the evaluation, and for what purposes. 
If the evaluation has not been completed, when does he expect it will be completed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 October 1977: 
What is the location of all classes of airstrips in Australia which are currently owned and operated by (a) the Aus.tralian Government, (b) State Governments, (c) local Governments and (d) private interests. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice on 26 October 1977: 
1 ) What progress has been made in the establishment of a joint review team to investigate in detail the structure and functions of Airport Safety Officers as set out in the Department's annual report. 
If the review has been completed, will he make copies of the report available. 
Is he able to say what changes are to be made to the structure and functions of Airport Safety Officers. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport: What information is he able to provide to the Parliament on statements made in the Papua New Guinea Parliament yesterday relating to alleged dealings between Qantas Airways Ltd and a Minister of the Papua New Guinea Government? Is it a fact, as claimed, that the Papua New Guinea Minister for Transport was in receipt of payments from Qantas? 
-I am flattered by the confidence of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  in my reproductive capacity but I must confess that I do not share his confidence. No doubt he was thinking of himself. I was rather intrigued also by his suggestion that somehow we should determine by legislation those who are genuinely unemployed and those who are not genuinely unemployed. If such a thing could be the subject of legislation, I would be very interested to see the result of it applied to the honourable members who sit on the other side of the chamber. I am sure that the world outside would very much like to see that kind of definition applied to members of Parliament. 
It worries me that in any discussion about employment the debate always gets around to the genuine unemployed and those who are not genuine. Certainly there are the malingerers; certainly there are those who do not want to work. That has always been the case. As far back as the time of Socrates he was deploring the prospects of the youth of his time and asking what was going to happen to them. It is not new. I think the only difference between present day malingerers and those of earlier days is that in the earlier days they were less conspicuous. They were able to conceal themselves in places where they were not seen so frequently or so easily. The sad part about it is that in all areas where there is some form of community benefit, be it pensioner benefit, taxation benefit, depreciation allowance, car allowance or any kind of benefit that comes from the taxpayer, there is always the element that does not have a genuine entitlement. I do not think it helps in discussing the subject of unemployment and the problems that we face in this country, with those half a million people out of work, to try to centre the debate round the very small percentage of people who are not genuine in their attempts to seek employment. The real answer is to raise the level of economic activity. When the level of demand and production lifts all these problems dissipate in that period of improvement. 
I would like at the outset to congratulate through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the  Speaker  on his re-election to that high office. I would like also to offer my commiserations to the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  who, I am confident, would have made a better  Speaker.  I am quite sure he would have acquitted himself well in that position. I would like also to offer my congratulations to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his election to the office of  Chairman  of Committees and at the same time to express my appreciation and thanks to the honourable member for Lyne,  Mr Philip  Lucock, for the manner in which he has carried out his duties during the five years in which I have been a member of this chamber. I think at times his patience has been sorely tested, and I think on other occasions the problems he faced were a direct result of the actions of honourable members from his own side of the House which could easily have been avoided. In spite of those problems he carried out his job in an admirable way. He has acquitted himself well, and the fact that he served in that position for 18 years is testimony of the quality of the service that he has provided to the Parliament. 
It would appear that his demise is a result of the rebellion by the young Turks in the National Country Party in Queensland who now appear to have the numbers and who are able to overthrow the older brigade within the National Country Party. I think that it is a sad event. The graceful way to do things is for a man who has served in high office for a long period to retire. To be thrown out by one's colleagues is not the kind of end that the honourable member for Lyne deserved. Be that as it may, perhaps the young Turks in the National Country Party in Queensland saw the position of  Chairman  of Committees as some kind of consolation for having provided the Minister who held office I think for the shortest time in the record of this Parliament and probably the only member of the National Country Party who was able to talk himself into a Ministership and out of it in less than 24 hours. 
I am sincere in what I say to the honourable member for Lyne and I hope that the condition of his good wife, who has been seriously ill over the past seven days, is improving. I place on record before the Parliament my appreciation of the service that the honourable member for Lyne has provided to all of us. At the same time I would like to offer my congratulations to the maidens and the slightly used maiden who have entered the chamber on this side of the Housethe honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe),  the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)-  for the excellent contributions that they have made to the Parliament. I am looking forward to their involvement in the day to day debates and the deliberations that come before us. 
Before moving on to the Governor-General's Speech I want to say something about the tragic event that occurred at the Hilton Hotel on the thirteenth of this month. In doing so I want to express sympathy on behalf of all members of the Opposition to the families and dependants of those three ordinary Australians who, in the course of carrying out their daily duties, lost their lives as a result of an indiscriminate bombing attack. At the same time, having said that, I believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of this country has misused and is continuing to misuse the seriousness of that event and the circumstances surrounding it for political purposes. If one looks at the leaders that have been written in the journals of this country, newspaper after newspaper showed evidence of the reaction of the leader writers to what they called a vast over-reaction on the part of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has made constant references to terrorists yet no evidence of terrorist involvement has been placed before the community or the Parliament. I know of no case involving the Parliament or national security so far- I exclude the event which occurred on 13 February- in relation to which evidence has been produced of organised political terrorism. To label the event of 13 February as terrorism without supporting evidence is, in my view, to invite terrorism. 
I believe also that the decision to use troops at Bowral and in and around the Parliament on the opening day of the Thirty-first Parliament was an ominous one. As best as I have been able to check, it was the first time in the history of this Parliament- I refer to 2 1 February the opening day- that troops have been used in such a role in and around the parliamentary building during a parliamentary session. I do not think such action was necessary. I believe that other forms of protection are available to the Parliament and to the Presiding Officers in the Parliament and that those forms should have been used. 
I believe that the Prime Minister in control of this country today- he is in control of this country, not the Executive; the Executive is a rubber stamp for the Prime Minister- has an obsession for the use of the Defence forces, the use of authority and the use of Service personnel. His obsession is the reason why Defence personnel were brought into and around the parliamentary building on the opening day of the Parliament. 
The Prime Minister has returned to the Parliament with a record that was mentioned earlier in the debate, namely, one of confrontation and division. We have not seen divisiveness to that level previously in this country. It seems that what the Prime Minister intended, by means of the presence of troops in the streets of Bowral and in the environs of the Parliament, was to convey the image that normalcy, that safety and that the conduct of ordinary day to day affairs involved the presence of troops. I think that is alien to this institution. I think Parliament could do well to guard against a repetition of that kind of event. I do not believe that any other section of the community is more vulnerable than members of Parliament. If a person wished to do physical harm to a member of Parliament it would be easy for him to do so. 
Does the honourable member think that those who are interested are not aware of it? Because of the way in which we have to carry out our normal duties, because of the responsibility we have to the country and because of the part we have to play in normal life, there is always the possibility that someone will disagree with us. Certainly, few members of Parliament have not at some stage or another had some kind of threat or comment made to them. One forgets that those sorts of things occur in the job. We often say that it goes with the job. For the Prime Minister to present this building as an impregnable fortress, to ring it with soldiers and dogs and police, is to present an invitation for it to be regarded as a target. The people most likely to be affected are not the members of Parliamentthey are here the least of all- but the staff and those people who work in and around the buildings. I think that a great error was made by the people responsible for the safety of the building and the safe conduct of the institution. The precincts of the Parliament is no place, in my view, for troops. The use of troops in the vicinity should not occur again. For troops to be employed in the way in which they were employed on the opening day is to invite trouble. Where are the troops today? Where was the security this morning? Where was the security the day after the Parliament opened? Even on the day the Parliament was opened I was able to walk into the building through the door which I normally use without being subjected to any check whatsoever. 
As the honourable member said, so could anyone else. The spectacle that was presented around Australia was an invitation to those unusual people, those eccentrics, those people who have some queer cross to bear, to involve themselves in something that was most undesirable. I hope that that kind of action will not occur again in or around the Parliament. 
I turn now to the Governor-General's Speech. I express my sorrow on behalf of those half million people genuinely unemployed at the fact that there is no glimmer of hope of the possibility of employment for them in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. Earlier we heard the speech delivered by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Ml)  who suggested that some kind of work test should now be applied. The 55-year- old clerk who now finds himself out of work will probably have to do two days on the road, digging holes or putting in drains. That is the kind of situation about which the honourable member was talking. That would be the result of that kind of policy and it would be a breach of the International Labour Organisation conventions. 
The Governor-General's Speech provides no hope either for equality in the tax burden. No matter how the Prime Minister was able to present, inaccurately, to the electorate prior to the last election the impact of tax changes his Government has introduced, the truth is that the tax burden has been redistributed down the scale. People on the higher incomes now have a smaller tax burden to bear in terms of their incomes than those at the lower end of the scale. At the same time we have seen the introduction of compulsory health insurance- in other words, Medibank II or a health tax. Despite the Prime Minister's promises during the election campaign that those charges would not be increased, there is no doubt that they will be increased. Together with that, we will see on 1 July of this year the introduction of State income tax. That is mentioned in the Governor-General 's Speech in these terms: 'Increased financial responsibility for local and State governments'. That is the euphemism used for the introduction of State income taxes. I shall deal more particularly in the time available to me with that section of the Speech which reads: 
Domestic and international civil aviation policies are being completely reviewed. It is the Government's desire that some lowering in air fares and freight charges on international air services should result. 
Nowhere in the Speech is there reference to public participation in such reviews of aviation policy. I make this point quite clearly. The airlines exist in this country to serve the travelling public. Air services are a form of public transportation. I believe that they will attract an increasing share of the long distance passenger transport task in the years ahead. In its submission to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism last year, Trans-Australia Airlines pointed out that 83.3 per cent of all long distance public transportation passengers travelled by air, compared with 12.5 per cent by rail and 4.2 per cent by bus. In the year ended 3 1 December last, the domestic airlines carried 9.75 million passengers. That means that the equivalent of about 70 per cent of our population travelled at some stage or other by air during the last calendar year. In the year 1976-77 some 1,032,000 persons travelled overseas, almost all of them by air. Those figures indicate the very important role that airline services play in our daily fives, and they highlight the urgent need for an end to the traditional backroom methods of determining aviation policies. 
Under successive conservative governments the aviation industry has been treated as a pampered child, without the public being given an opportunity to express its needs and wants in a public forum. At the present time we are experiencing what could best be described as a shambles in aviation policy, with claims, counterclaims and contradictions being made about what ought to be available, what could be available, what might be available, and what will be available in terms of aviation services both inside and outside Australia. That is a direct result of the haphazard handling of aviation policy by the present Government. I outlined the issues involved when speaking last August in the debate on the Air Navigation Amendment Bill 1977. I mentioned at the time the major issues involved, particularly the fact that the world conference of the International Civil Aviation Organisation had as its main item of discussion the nonscheduled or charter air services. 
At the time I called for a widening of the Government's review of domestic civil aviation policy to include international aviation policy and I said that that should be by way of public inquiry. The Government accepted my request to the extent of widening the terms of the inquiry by announcing a further review of international aviation policy. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  agreed to release submissions for publication if the authors of those submissions gave permission. In that speech I mentioned also a conflict of attitudes on the part of the domestic and external segments of the Australian tourist industry. Those selling overseas travel want cut price air fares; those selling internal travel complain of the inroads being made into their market by the sale of relatively cheap overseas package tours. 
Rather belatedly in the present controversy over cut price air fares, a wider and more balanced range of views is becoming evident through some newspaper columns. I note that the editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 1 January gave support to the view which I was putting on behalf of the Opposition last year and which I have been putting throughout this year. The editorial supported the opening up of any review of aviation policy into a public forum so that there can be public examination and testing of the claims and counter-claims and there can be a removal of the industry and bureaucratic influence within the Department of Transport and where tests can be made of the proposals put particularly by the domestic airlines and by the major external airlines. 
In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 20 February the leader writer supported the view being put by the Opposition that there ought to be an end to the obsessional secrecy of the Minister over matters relating to aviation. 
Since then we have seen a succession of statements in the newspapers on the subject. Peter Grey from the Committee for Economic Development of Australia put forward a reasonable statement on the situation as it exists in relation to international air travel.  Mr Muskens  of the Australian Federation of Travel Agents claimed that safety standards could be jeopardised if cut price air fares were introduced.  Mr Lim  Chin Beng of Singapore Airlines enunciated his belief that the introduction of cut price air fares could have very serious effects on the tourist industry in Far East Asia. Fears were expressed by  Mr Leslie  Perrott of the National Travel Association that the local tourist industry would be damaged severely by a big outflow of tourists without a compensating inflow.  Mr Krumbeck  of the Australian Federation of Travel Agents has referred to the confusion over fare schedules being announced before they are actually approved by government. 
All of those statements serve to reinforce the claim that has been put by the Opposition, including myself, since August last that the only effective way to ensure the early introduction of lower price air fares within and outside Australia is by way of a public inquiry whereby the bureaucratic boffins can be flushed out into the open and the deals that may be arranged between sections of the industry and parts of the bureaucracy can be brought out into the open. As far as the Opposition is concerned, there is room in this country for a reduction in air fares. We want to see this done as quickly as possible. We want to see it done in a way that will ensure that the travelling public gets as good a deal as possible. We will not get it by a succession of claims, counter-claims, alarmist statements and the announcement of schedules that are not to operate, all of which have confused the industry, have caused people to defer travel in the expectation that lower fares might prevail and have caused acrimony between various sectors of the tourist industry and between sectors of the travel industry itself. 
The Minister for Transport has the task before him. In my view he has participated in furthering the considerable chaos and confusion that exists in the public's mind about cut price air fares. Right throughout the discussion he has given the impression that cut price air fares are just around the corner. He has said on a number of occasions that he is sympathetic to  Mr Laker's  proposals, but he knew before he made the first statement that before  Mr Laker's  proposals could have any meaning at all, they would have to have the prior approval of the British Government. There has been no evidence to date of that approval being given. 
I conclude with this remark: The Opposition believes that there is room for lower air fares within this country and out of this country. We want those lower air fares instituted as soon as possible. We believe that the only effective way to ensure that the public's interest is protected in terms of the maximum range of reductions and the maximum range of services is by way of a public inquiry so that all of the factors involved in the aviation industry, in the services that could be made available and in the fares that could be made available are brought out for public examination. In that way those people who are making the more extravagant claims and those people whom I think to a large extent are using Qantas as the bunny in the debate, can be called upon under a public examination to provide evidence for the claims they are making. 
-The Opposition supports the re-appointment of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety. I think it is relevant to make the point that the Opposition believes that it is pointless establishing committees if those committees are simply to be forums for fulminating politicians. The whole purpose of this Committee or any range of parliamentary committees is to provide a mechanism whereby the back bench members of the Parliament can become involved in specific subjects of public interest. No subject is more critical at present than the subject of road safety. I think the House needs to be reminded that every  2'A  hours on average an Australian dies on our roads. In those circumstances if there is to be a road safety committee, the Government has a responsibility in establishing that committee to ensure that its recommendations are given effect. 
I refer briefly to the record of this Government and the previous one, moreso the previous one from 1975 to 1977, in respect of the recommendations of the Road Safety Committee and in particular in regard to passenger motor vehicle safety. In its report that Committee made 52 recommendations covering matters relating to braking, retreading of tyres, lighting, field of vision, seat belts and child restraints and regulatory controls and authorities as well as accident recording and data collection and analysis. That report was tabled on 2 June 1976-19 months ago. The report of the Committee on heavy vehicle safety was tabled in May 1977. That report contained 28 recommendations on matters relating to braking, steering, tyres, loading practice and loading rating of critical components, truck cabin strength, field of vision, noise, seat belts and under-run barriers as sell as bus frame and design standards. 
As I mentioned earlier, it is pointless expending public funds and using up the time of members of the Parliament as well as involving the organisations and individuals who have a genuine concern for road safety in the incurring of considerable expense if the government of the day does not see fit to pick up the recommendations of the Committee. In the report on motor vehicle safety that the Committee presented in June 1976 it recommended, as had  Mr Justice  Meares' Expert Group on Road Safety, the establishing of an independent road safety and standards authority. Within weeks of coming to government the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  announced the dissolution of the independent authority along those lines that had been established by the previous Government. So the major recommendation of the Committee was thrown out immediately on coming to office by the present Minister. 
A second matter recommended by the CommitteeI shall not deal with the whole 52 recommendationsrelated to data collection and accident statistics. In December 1976 the Minister for Transport replied to a question I had asked him relating to what action he had taken in respect of this recommendation. He said: 
As the Expert Group on Road Safety also stated in its report of October 197S, insurance offices collect much useful statistical information and there is increasing willingness on the pan of insurance companies to make data available for road safety research. 
That was the Minister's response to a question I had asked about what he had done to implement the recommendations of the Road Safety Committee that the Insurance Commission be asked to obtain relevant information from insurance companies in order to assist in the collation of statistics on road traffic accidents. The Minister went on to say: 
However, the Insurance Commission has no authority under its Act to requite insurers to supply these data and such a request would not be connected with the administration of the Act. In the light of this no approach has been made to the Treasurer for the Commission to obtain road safety data. 
I asked the Minister a further question a few weeks later in regard to whether he would approach the Treasurer in the light of the deficiency under the legislation for which the Insurance Commission is responsible. I asked him whether he would approach the Treasurer to arrange an amendment to the legislation. He replied in February of last year. I ask the Minister, as he is now at the table, whether he has taken any further action since replying to my question. He has not advised me of any and I have not seen any reports to the Parliament to indicate that further action has been taken. His reply is February of last year was: 
It is considered preferable to seek the co-operation of insurers for work on specific projects, rather than seek statutory returns. Information sought can thus be designed for the particular study in mind. The honourable member will recall that insurance companies advised the Standing Committee that they were willing to help in this way. 
I ask again: What has the Minister done apart from rejecting the recommendation of the Expert Group on Road Safety and the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety? It is wasting the time of members and wasting the taxpayers' money to go through an exercise of gathering information and then to have the Government reject that information. If a committee system is to be effective the recommendations of committees must be given due weight. The Government of the day must undertake to consider the recommendations with a view to implementing them. The Minister for Transport- I do not want to be personal because he is only part of the Government- pays lip service to the critical issue of road safety in Australia today. 
Embodied in the establishment of the road safety and standards authority was to have been the construction of testing facilities for motor vehicles at Albury-Wodonga. Leaving aside the decentralisation benefits of that activity, I suggest that that very important facility would have added to the information available on improving road safety. I understand that General MotorsHolden Ltd and Ford are the only companies that have their own adequate testing facilities. The facility at Albury-Wodonga could have been used by other motor companies. It could have earned revenue for the Government which would help to offset the costs of road safety supervision in this country and it would have been a very worthwhile addition to the information available to and the work carried out by the Government and by the Parliament in the interests of road safety. 
Whilst there is much talk about road safety and about the ravages of alcohol it seems to me that honourable members on the Government side are more concerned about drugs than about this very vital matter of the consumption of alcohol by drivers. Without doubt it is the most crippling disease and the most dangerous practice that exists in this country today. As I said at the beginning of my remarks, every  2Vi  hours a person dies on Australian roads. In 50 per cent of deaths involving single vehicle accidents alcohol is a major contributing factor. In 80 per cent of the cases of drivers under 25 years of age alcohol is a major contributing factor. 
I hope that the Minister will make a report to the Parliament, or he may care to address a letter to the  Chairman  of the Committee, which would probably be a more formal way of doing it, outlining what steps he has taken as Minister to implement the 52 and the 28-80 in all- recommendations of the last two reports from the Committee. Perhaps the Minister will give an assurance to the Parliament that the Committee, when established, will be accorded some respect and importance by the Government and that adequate staffing arrangements and adequate funds will be made available to ensure that the Committee is able to carry out its very effective work. In closing I want to thank those members of the Road Safety Committee with whom I have worked in the past few months for their cooperation and assistance. I hope that I will be joining them again in a few weeks time. 
-This evening I want to register my strong personal objection to the so-called security measures adverted to just a few moments ago by the Government Whip, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  I believe that the imposition of these measures is part of a political stunt organised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I believe that the measures reflect his obsessional personal fears for his own safety. 
He does not think it is a laughing matter. He has conducted himself as probably the most confrontationist politician in the history of this Parliament. If his actions attract attention to himself, that is to be understood. What I want to know is how much he has influenced the Presiding Officers of both Houses of this Parliament in the measures which have been brought down? Has pressure been brought to bear by the Prime Minister? I think these questions ought to be answered by the Prime Minister at a later date. We as members of Parliament were not consulted- at least honourable members on this side of the House were not consultedabout the proposed measure. We were not advised, nor have we seen any evidence of so-called terrorist activities in relation to this building. 
I wish to refer specifically to an article which appeared in yesterday's Melbourne  Herald  entitled 'Terror comes to Canberra'. I ask again: Where is the evidence to support the contention that terror has come to Canberra? Many honourable members in this chamber feel that from time to time the occupant of the canopied chair in this chamber is the main terror. But where is the evidence to support the sort of headline which reads: 'Terror comes to Canberra'. The opening paragraph of the article reads: 
About 10 years ago an attendant noticed an old car at the front steps of Parliament House, with its engine running. 
The article goes on to relate an incident involving a chap who wanted to come into the Parliament and make some remarks. The article goes on to say: 
Another time a man jumped out of the gallery on to the floor of the chamber just before 8 p.m. and just as the Sergeant-at-Arms was entering. 
That must have occurred at least five years agobefore I entered the Parliament. The first incident occurred 10 years ago and the second incident must have occurred at least five years ago. A third incident refers to a member of the Press Gallery. The article goes on to say: 
His entry on to the floor of the House was almost identical to a journalist a few years earlier. He leaned over the gallery too far and fell! 
They are very serious matters which warrant the kind of security measures and the infringement upon the rights of members of this Parliament and of Australians to enter the parliamentary building in the course of their normal activities, that we are now witnessing. I ask again: Where is the evidence? There is no evidence. All we have is the Prime Minister's personal obsession with his own safety. 
It is said that Parliament is often a theatre; maybe that is true. Let us have a look at the first incident after these so called security measures were announced. A bundle of papers fell from the Press Gallery. It was an infringement within the chamber? What happened? Government supporters laughed. They thought it was a joke. Maybe it was a try-out. I do not know whether the journalist concerned was questioned. The papers may have contained a bomb destined for someone in the House; we do not know. This shows the absurdity of the kinds of things advanced in this article. The article and the measures which have been taken are a farce. Let us go back a few months to the night that the lights went out in Parliament House when the Liberals were in government. For more than half an hour Parliament House was in darkness. Anything could have happened. Are we to guard all the electricity sub-stations around Canberra to prevent the lights from going out whenever a Liberal government is in power? Where is the sensibility? Where is the evidence for the necessity to take the kind of measures that are being taken? Access to the Parliament and to members of the Parliament is a fundamental right of every Australian. It is a fundamental right of every parliamentarian and his staff to be able to move about this building. 
I received a circular, as no doubt other honourable members did, from a  Mr Evans  asking me to sign a form to enable my staff to be issued with a pass. I do not propose to sign the form. I do not believe the measures should be brought into existence. Again there is no evidence. I keep raising that question over and over again: We are part of a political stunt by the Prime Minister. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bendigo, mentioned the 
Hilton incident. Where is the evidence which relates the Hilton incident to meetings in this chamber? There is none. Again it is capitalising on a tragic event which affected the lives of Australians. It has nothing whatsoever to do with this Parliament unless it involves the Prime Minister himself. The measures are an invasion of the rights of members of this place, and making this Parliament a fortress spectacular will do one thing: It will attract the nuts, the crackpots, the cranks and the misfits who know that any kind of an event - 
They all sit opposite and constitute 86 in number. These measures will attract their comrades from outside who will take some silly action outside Parliament House because they will be guaranteed publicity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
Are Ministers and public servants travelling outside Australia required to travel by Qantas. 
What are the present guidelines for the use of Qantas airline services outside Australia. 
Did this question  first appear on the Notice Paper of 5  October 1977 as question No. 1597 and remain unanswered at the close of the last Parliament. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
1 ) On what Qantas flights did the Prime Minister and /or members of his party travel during the Prime Minister's overseas visit during the period 26 May 1977 to 28 June 1977. 
In respect of first class seats, how many (a) were available, (b) were purchased for the Prime Minister and his party, (c) were sold to other passengers and (d) remained unsold on each of those occasions. 
Were all seats charged to the Prime Minister and his party occupied; if not, how many seats were not occupied and for what part of the journey were they unoccupied. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as question No. 1603 and remain unanswered at the close of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) What was the value of free overseas travel provided to members of his family by the Blue Star Shipping Line in association with the launching of a Blue Star ship in Europe on 25 January 1978. 
What action has he taken to declare the value of the free travel provided under the guidelines of the Government's policy on the acceptance of gifts by a Minister and his family. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1 978: 
1 ) Are there any precedents for Ministers' wives accepting free overseas travel from foreign shipowners when they have been invited to launch their ships. 
If so will he detail these precedents showing which wives, shipowners and shipyards were involved in the last 20 years. 
Are there any precedents for his action in allowing a foreign shipowner to provide free travel for a Minister's child to accompany his wife to a foreign ship launching; if so, what are the details of these precedents. 
-The Australian National Railways Amendment Bill is a significant one because it marks the concluding stages of the amalgamation of the Tasmanian Government railway system and the nonmetropolitan South Australian railways services with the Australian National Railways Commission, known as ANR. The principal purpose of the Bill is to define the long service leave and workers compensation entitlements of the former Tasmanian and South Australian railway employees transferring to ANR. The provisions of the Bill have been developed after detailed discussions between the Australian Government, the Tasmanian and South Australian governments and the relevant unions. There are still a few matters to be resolved, which I understand the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will cover in an amendment to be moved in the Committee stage of the Bill, and questions will be raised at that time also. In these circumstances the Opposition does not oppose the second reading of the Bill. 
As outlined by the Minister in his second reading speech yesterday, the substantive provisions relating to long service leave and workers compensation entitlements of transferring employees are contained in clause 5. I do not propose to deal in detail with the individual clauses of the Bill, as the explanatory memorandum which has been circulated by the Minister provides the specific application of each clause. However, it is worth restating that the essence of the agreement reached by the parties to the legislation is that transferring South Australian railways employees who make application for long service leave or pay in lieu thereof after the declared date of 1 March 1978 will be entitled either to the South Australian provisions which applied on 1 March 1978 or to the provisions of the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976 applying at the date of application, whichever are the more favourable to the employee. 
In respect of Workers Compensation, transferring South Australian Railway employees will have the right to elect at the time of injury, to have their claim dealt with under either the Compensation (Commonwealth Government) Act 1971 or the Workmen's Compensation Act 1971 of South Australia. In the case of transferring Tasmanian railway employees, the long service leave provisions of that State are almost identical with the Commonwealth provisions. For compensation purposes they will be covered by the Commonwealth scheme. Proposed new section 52a of the principal Act provided for in clause 5 of the Bill ensures that the slightly more favourable long service leave entitlements enjoyed by the former employees of Commonwealth Railways who commenced service prior to 7 October 1944 are retained. Their long service leave entitlement was originally provided in By-law No. 70 of 1936 of the Australian National Railways Commission. 
As I mentioned at the outset, this Bill is significant in that it marks the concluding stages of the amalgamation of the South Australian nonmetropolitan railway services and the Tasmanian Government railway system with the nationally operated system, managed by the Austraiian National Railways Commission. It marks the completion of a major step forward in the creation of a unified, efficient railway service, an objective that the founding fathers had in mind when they formulated section 51 placita (xxxiii) and (xxxiv) of our Constitution. Even as far back as the late nineteenth century they recognised the efficiencies and advantages to be gained from a national railway system to service our vast continent. Unfortunately for Australia, successive conservative governments- even the present one- have continually opposed that objective. Section 5 1 of the Constitution states: 
The Parliament shall, subject to this Consitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to: 
The acquisition, with the consent of a State, of any railways of the State on terms arranged between the Commonwealth and the State: 
Railway construction and extension in any State with the consent of that State: 
That the founding fathers foresaw the desirability for defence purposes of a national railway system is evidenced by their inclusion of placitum (xxxii) of section 5 1 which states: 
The control of railways with respect to transport for the naval and military purposes of the Commonwealth: 
It is a national disgrace that 77 years after Federation so little has been done to establish a comprehensive national railway service. The Australian Labor Party is proud that, despite the obstinancy of conservative State governments, in the period from 1972 to 1975 at least the South Australian and Tasmanian Labor governments of that time recognised the benefits to be derived from a national rail service and agreed with the Australian Labor Party Federal Government at that time to transfer to the Australian National Railways Commission the services and personnel that are the subject matter of this Bill. At its Federal Conference in Perth last year the Australian Labor Party reaffirmed its commitment to the development of a national railway service when it endorsed as policy the undertaking of a future national Labor government to build and/or operate any railways, ports, air routes, shipping services or pipelines as provided by the Constitution or transferred to it by a State. 
During the recent election campaign the Minister for Transport sought to distort the effects of the transfer to the national Government of State railway systems and to present the objective as an extravagance. Despite the ideological obstinancy of the conservatives, some progress has been made, and the Australian Labor Party will continue to promote the development of a national rail system. Given the Minister's sharp criticism in the past of the transfer of the South Australian and Tasmanian rail services to the Commonwealth and his continued opposition to the development of the Australian National Railways Commission, the comments in his second reading speech in which he sought to take credit for the progress made by ANR are somewhat curious. The Opposition welcomes his recent statement of financial assistance to be provided for the upgrading and improvement of rail services. The amounts, albeit inadequate at least from this Government with its obsessional hatred of the public sector, are something. 
After decades of neglect, railways appear to be regaining something of the financial priority and status due to them as a major transport mode. Governments, industry and the community are once again acknowledging the importance of railways as the most economical and efficient means of transporting goods and passengers. As available energy supplies decrease, the efficient energy utilisation of railways, particularly over long distances, will become more apparent, and this will give greater financial priority to the funds for the improvement of our rail systems. 
It is to be deplored also that a report which was commissioned in 1975 on the electrification of the main line systems and which was distributed by the Minister well over a year ago has not yet been brought before the Parliament so that it can make some assessment of the application of the report and the amount of funding that will be necessary. There is much debate about energy and energy conservation. Probably the best potential for moving towards energy conservation rests with our railway systems, particularly our long distance systems. There seems to be little doubt that the astonishing neglect accorded to railways by successive conservative governments, both State and Federal, has been based to a large extent on their ideological bias against public sector enterprises, railways being such an enterprise. They have consistently placed ideology before public safety and operating efficiency. 
That climaxed in the horrendous Granville disaster of last year when some 83 persons lost their lives. The inquiry conducted into that derailment disaster by Judge Staunton found that the cause of the derailment was clearly the unsatisfactory condition of the permanent way. The loss of 83 lives and the personal tragedy that that brought to the families of those concerned was a terrible price to pay to convince the conservatives that railways must receive an adequate share of public funds if they are to ensure that their services are safe and efficient. 
I turn now to the financial results of the operations of the Australian National Railways Commission in recent years. In the debate which took place in this chamber on the Australian National Railways Amendment Bill 1977 on 4 May of last year I drew attention to the fact that the financial report of the Commission had not been presented. That was 1 1 months after the financial year 1975-76 had ended. This afternoon, some 10 months later, still no report has been tabled in the Parliament of the Commission's activities for 1975-76 or 1976-77. Last year I said that the Opposition appreciated that there could be some difficulty in consolidating the financial accounts of the existing Australian National Railways Commission and those of the services transferred from the Tasmanian railway service and the South Australian railway service. However, some 21 months since the financial year 1975-76 ended we are yet to see any detailed accounts from the Commission. We believe it is time that the accounts were tabled and an end was put to the wrangling over the treatment of the assets and liabilities of the transferred services. 
It is a common exercise to label public sector enterprises, particularly transport enterprises, as being inefficient, as being bunglers and as being extravagant. It is important, in the interests of those enterprises, that their reports and the detail to be found in their annual accounts be presented to the Parliament so that there may be soundly based public discussion on the problems involved. That is particularly so in this case because we are dealing with a major amalgamationa major movement of two services into the national system. Of course, there would have to be problems associated with determining what is the written down value of those services, what the depreciation rate might have been and what share of operating costs might be attributed to a particular section of the service in the year in which the transfer occurred. That is particularly so in the case of South Australia where some lines are in common usage. 
We believe that the information contained in those accounts should be available for public scrutiny and not just available to the Government and its advisers. The responsibility for failing to table the annual reports of the Commission must he fairly and squarely with the Minister. I ask him in his reply to inform the Parliament when we can expect the reports to be tabled. I think that those reports should be tabled as soon as possible, even if the Minister does so only out of recognition of his own responsibilities. 
As I said earlier, if that factual information were provided we could have a sensible public discussion. There could be a sensible public assessment of the performance. So far all we have had from the Minister- he provided this information in his second reading speech on the Australian National Railways Amendment Bill in May of last year- is his statement that the Commission incurred a loss of $55. 4m in 1975-76 and that that loss comprised $ 14.9m on the Tasmanian services, $30m on the South Australian services and $ 10.5m on other services. That information by itself is insufficient. It gives currency to the view which is often expressed, as I mentioned earlier, that public transport enterprises have to lose money. That does not follow. They can be efficient and they can create a surplus- a sizable surplus- for use for other purposes. The supporting details need to be provided as a matter of urgency. An examination of the Budget Papers for the current financial year reveals that $46,693,000 was provided in 1976-77 to meet the operating losses of the Commission in that year and that $55m has been allocated for the same purpose this financial year. Those figures exclude the $0.45m which is being made available to meet the operating loss of the Tasman Limited. The losses provided for are large and highlight, as I said earlier, the need to present urgently the annual reports of the Commission. 
I refer again to those losses, particularly that in the State of Tasmania. An undertaking was given in the Budget that the Tasman Limited would operate only until the end of February. An adjustment has now been made to that earlier decision. Again, if we are to have a debate on what should happen to the Tasmanian railway service, we should be given the facts and the information so that a rational debate can take place and rational decisions can be taken. The point that is often overlooked in relation to railway services is that because of the historic nature of those services- because railways were in so many ways the pioneers of our development during the latter part of the last century and the early part of this century and because of the role that they play in pioneering development- communities and activities tended to develop around the rail corridors which were established. 
Railways have a social worth that does not show up in the annual accounts. If we were to have the detail of the accounts before us we could then seek to elaborate on the social benefits of the railway system and the considerable disruption that can be caused when less profitable railway services are closed down. I am reminded that when a cost-benefit analysis is carried out in New Zealand of pine planting activities one of the factors that has to be taken into account is whether termination of those activities would involve the closing down of existing rail services. If that occurs, an assessment has to be made of the cost incurred by the nation of, firstly, the relocation of people, secondly, the community disruption which occurs, thirdly, the loss of employment and, fourthly, the considerable loss to other government bodies of revenue which is generated by the continued operation of the railway and the utilisation of that area by the community. 
The social benefit aspects cannot have a nice, tidy figure placed upon them. In a way we are dealing in the debate on this legislation with the social benefit aspects to the employees. The legislation deals with their rights and entitlements. Considerable hardship would be created in some cases if the rights of employees entering the service of the Commission now were not to be continued in the way they had in the past and in the manner on which they had planned their activities. 
Honourable members will appreciate that with the addition of the Tasmanian and the South Australian services to the Australian National Railways activities there will be a corresponding increase in the amount of investment funds and in the number of financial transactions. Some idea of the magnitude of the Commission's operations can be gained from an article written by the Commission's  Chairman, Mr Keith  Smith, which appeared in the February edition of  Railways of Australia.  That article does not substitute for the detailed accounts to which I referred earlier. However, it shows that the Commission now has approximately 13,000 employees as a result of the amalgamation. Its annual wages bill is in the vicinity of $ 1 1 7m. Its net fixed assets have more than doubled from $ 147.3m at the end of 1974-75 to $390m. I assume from the Chairman's statement that that would be the current figure.  Mr Smith  listed the Commission's expenditure as follows: Wages, $117m per annum; supply and upkeep of railway operations, $50m per annum; indirect expenses such as superannuation and furlough liabilities, interest, depreciation and insurance, $28m per annum; thus making up a total expenditure of $ 195m per annum. Income is estimated at $ 125m, leaving a deficit of $70m per annum. 
The Minister for Transport, in his second reading speech, adverted to the deficits being incurred by the Commission and the expectation that things would improve once the amalgamation had been completed. He made a similar comment in his second reading speech on the Australian National Railways Amendment Bill last year. I agree with him. I am sure that other honourable members would support those comments. The Commission is a major public enterprise. It faces a difficult task in converting that $70m deficit into a surplus. However, I am confident that we will all want to see the Commission succeed in its task. Its task would be assisted by full financial information on its activities being publicly available. 
The passage of this Bill is, in itself, a tribute to all those who participated in detailed discussions and arrangements that have enabled the amalgamation of the two State systems and the national railway system to proceed. I am sure that I speak on behalf of all honourable members when I say that a great lot of hassle and detailed examination and argument took place to and fro. Even though the Minister has his own views about the wisdom of having a national railway system, it is to the credit of the officers of the Department of Transport that, in spite of the complexities involved in the amalgamation of those three rail systems and the added complexity of the number of awards and the number of unions involved, we are now debating this Bill and hopefully concluding arrangements for the future of the employees under the expanded Commission. 
Credit must also go to the Australian Labor Governments of 1972-75 and in particular to the former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  for their efforts in developing the initial stages of the transfers. The record of the Australian Labor Governments of 1972-75 is a good one. We saw the commencement of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs rail line. In that period we undertook to implement the construction of a standardised link between Adelaide and Crystal Brook. Unfortunately the present Minister for Transport and the previous Liberal Government abandoned that project. This afternoon, we are seeing the conclusion of the amalgamation arrangements of the three systems. We are seeing the introduction of Federal funding for urban rail transport. The next Labor Government will continue the program as outlined in the Constitution of developing Australia's national rail system in the national interest as a matter of high priority. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the amendments. We have had consultations with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and representations have been received with respect to them. The Opposition thinks they are desirable and therefore we do not oppose them. With respect to clause 5, 1 wish to raise with the Minister the situation regarding section 38 of the Workmen's Compensation Act and what appears to be an entitlement under the provisions of that section, whereby a person could be offered a lump sum settlement from an employer for an injury and could then seek legal advice on the advisability of accepting that lump sum. In the event of the lump sum offer being accepted, under the South Australian Actthere is some doubt as to its interpretation, I understand- it appears that there is an automatic entitlement to reimbursement for the cost of the legal advice sought. I know that there have been discussions in respect of this matter also. I think I could probably assist the Committee best by simply asking the Minister whether in his reply he will given an assurance that the matter will be looked into further and will be dealt with by way of an adminstrative procedure. 
The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  wishes to raise one other matter. But before I sit down I wish to correct a statement I made earlier, when referring to the entitlement to the right of election under the workers compensation scheme. I limited it to the period from 1 March until the date of royal assent to the Bill. I was in error and I wish to correct my error. Under the terms of the Bill the right of election is a continuing right. 
-The performance of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  at best can be described as shabby. This evening he has consistently interjected throughout contributions to this debate from speakers on this side of the chamber. He continues to interject and, if he interjects during my contribution, I will ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to take firm action to either remove him from the chamber or make him cease interjecting.  His  contribution was not in any way representative of the problems that the people in his electorate face.  His  electorate does not have a monopoly on hardship, nor do country people have a monopoly on hardship. The Opposition is well aware of the hardship faced by people in country areas and is sympathetic to them but they are not the only people who have difficulties. It is the efforts of people such as the honourable member for Kalgoorlie to divide the Australian community into 'us' and 'them' that causes many of the problems we as a society have.  His  heart-rending appeals would be much more admired if he had the courage of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  to stand up and declare himself on a point of principle. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie, as do numerous other honourable members opposite, knows that this legislation is a fraud. It does not in any way implement the clear undertaking given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during the last election campaign. Let us recall the words of the Prime Minister just prior to the election when speaking in respect of petrol prices. He said: 
Immediately after the election the Government will take action to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country without adding to city prices. 
That undertaking rests on the basic assumption that there is a city price which can be clearly identified and which will be uniform within cities within a State and, hopefully, across the nation. That is not the case. Nowhere in the Bill is there a definition of a city price. All those who sit opposite, excluding the honourable member for Franklin, know that very well. However, in deference to the Prime Minister and the all powerful oil companies, they are prepared to ride along and participate in presenting a fraud to the people of Australia, and even to their own constituents. I move to the second part of the Prime Minister's promise. He went on to say: 
The scheme will bring country prices down initially to less than lc per litre or 4c per gallon above city prices and to less than half a cent per litre, 2c per gallon, in the life of the new Parliament. 
-Again the honourable member for Kalgoorlie interjects. Again he indicates the dilemma that faces Government supporters. They know what this Bill really means. They know what the Prime Minister's promise was. The Bill merely subsidises the freight differential in the carriage of petroleum products so that any freight costs over 4c per gallon will be subsidised. 
That was not the Prime Minister's promise. His promise was to equalise petroleum prices between country and city. I suggest that first of all we should define a city price. Within any city there is a wide range of prices. 
At the core of this problem are the marketing practices and malpractices of the oil companies. We all know very well the substantial funds that have gone from oil companies to the political slush funds of those who sit opposite. 
-Certainly the Prime Minister presents a policy but in effect it is sleight of hand. 
It appears to be something that it is not.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek your protection from the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. He is determined to prevent debate on this subject. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member will continue his speech, and the House will come to order. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I find the remark which was just made by the Government Whip most offensive and I ask that it be withdrawn. 
The point I was making was that at the core of the issue are the marketing procedures and malpractices of the oil companies in Australia. We all know of the substantial funds which have flowed from those companies to those who sit opposite election after election. Those funds helped to put many honourable members opposite in the Parliament. Surely those who sit opposite will not now vote against the best interests of the oil companies. But the honourable member for Franklin - 
-It seems,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the Government Whip is determined to defy you. It can only reflect that he also has had a liquid tea. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, there are many forms of liquid tea. If the honourable member concerned chooses to interpret the comment in a particular fashion and if it upsets him, I withdraw it. The point I am trying to make is that the marketing malpractices of the oil companies are the core of the issue. For the Government to talk about equalising city prices and country prices of petrol is simply to talk about a fantasy because there is no such thing as a city price. 
I go on to deal further with the legislation. As we said, the Prime Minister made a very clear promise to take action to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country without adding to city prices. But this legislation provides for a subsidy to cover that freight differential by limiting the difference in price to 4c per gallon. I reinforce the remarks made by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  and subscribe to the validity of those remarks. Of the 10,000 locations in Australia, only 52 per cent of them will receive any subsidy. In addition, few of the locations in that 52 per cent are in provincial cities. Further examination shows that in the case of only 33 per cent of them will the subsidy be more than lc per gallon. So, in effect, what we have here is a complete and deliberate misrepresentation. 
It is to the credit of the honourable member for Franklin that he has recognised the deception perpetrated by the Government. He has recognised that he has a Prime Minister whose word cannot be trusted at election time or at any other time. We on this side of the House challenge the Tasmanian colleagues of the honourable member for Franklin, if they are as interested as he is, if they are not prepared to support the differential in pricing being applied by the oil companies to the detriment of Tasmania, to join with the honourable member as men of principle and to support the amendment. All too often we hear pleas from honourable members opposite about transport costs and about the disadvantage that transport costs place upon people who live outside the metropolitan areas. 
The honourable member for Wilmot says: 'Quite right'. At least he knows something. Transport costs affect everybody and the price of petroleum is a major element in the transport cost structure. If we are to do something substantial for people who live outside the metropolitan areas, to enable them to get their products to market, to enable them to get their exports to the seaports, to enable them to have the necessities of life brought into their locations, we have to examine closely the equity of transport pricing. Under this fraudulent scheme the fundamental factor is that the subsidy to be provided by this legislation will not result in equity because it ignores the basic requirement -it ignores the need to define and to set out a city price for petrol. 
As I said, a range of different prices exists in any city in Australia. If Melbourne, through pressure applied by the consumers, is able to force the oil companies into acting- let me put it very gently- as free enterprise organisations, if Melbourne is able to convince the oil companies to enter into a climate in which more competition takes place, then good luck to the people of Melbourne. I thought honourable members who sit opposite were more interested in competition and free enterprise. But it is not the responsibility of the people of Melbourne to implement an orderly system of petroleum product marketing in this country; that is the responsibility of this Government. It is running away from its responsibility by putting forward legislation such as that which we are debating. 
-Obviously the honourable member supports the discrimination against Tasmania. If the honourable member for Wilmot is happy to say that he supports discrimination against the people of Tasmania and all that that entails in regard to the cost structure of Tasmanian products and the burden that that places upon Tasmania in getting its products to the mainland, he ought to stand up and say so. It is the responsiblity of the Government to create an orderly system of marketing. The reason why it does not do so is very clear. It is in the pockets of the oil companies. 
More than two years have elapsed since the forth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum was presented to this Parliament. For more than two years the Government has had more than ample opportunity to look at the recommendations of the Commission, to look at the equity which is involved, to establish an energy agency in this country, and to see that there is equity in the distribution of petroleum products and the pricing practice that goes with it. We in the Opposition, in moving the amendment put before the House by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  recognise the failure of this legislation. For the benefit of honourable members opposite I will read that amendment. 
Some honourable members opposite would not be able to read. It states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Bill: 
fails to- 
implement the election promise of the Government "to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country", and 
improve the adequacy of the existing petroleum marketing and distribution system in country areas, and 
is silent on the defects in the system outlined in the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum '. 
In essence, the Government is running away from the problem. By this very legislation it is compounding the problem and all of the difficulties and inequities associated with marketing petroleum products in this country. The legislation is a fraud and it reflects the association of the Prime Minister not only with IBM Australia Ltd but also with the oil companies. The Bill is a fraud. It deserves to be rejected and the amendment deserves to be carried. 
-by leave-Mr  Speaker,  I ask that members of the House be told what is involved and that they be given an opportunity to discuss it. I personally strongly object to the measures being introduced by you. I have raised my objection in the chamber previously. Similar objections have been made by other honourable members. Because of the time at which this statement is made no opportunity is available to discuss it. I draw your attention in particular to sections 49 and 50 of the Constitution and the practices and privileges of the House of Commons which flow therefrom. 
I believe it is proper and responsible that honourable members on both sides of the Parliament be informed of the reasons for and the background to this action. I am particularly concerned about this matter in the light of the article attributed to you which was published in the Melbourne  Herald  on the 7th of this month. It could be interpreted as being an intimidation of the House. It carries the headline: 'Terror comes to Canberra'. No evidence is advanced to support that headline. I am particularly concerned. I do not think that the measures should be proceeded with until members of the House have had an opportunity, firstly, to be informed and, secondly, to be consulted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Melbourne  Sun News-Pictorial  of 9 September 1977 in which it was alleged that a Ferrari Boxer motor car was driven at speeds of up to 1 80 kph on streets near Parliament House on 7 September 1977. 
If so, does the Minister or his Department have any knowledge of the incident; if so; 
who were the occupants of the motor car, 
was a Commonwealth Police escort provided for any of the occupants of the motor car on the evening of 7 September 1977, 
how many Commonwealth Police Officers were detailed for any security duties relating to occupants of the motor car on that date, and 
d ) at what speeds did the escort car carrying those Commonwealth Police Officers travel in the course of their duties on 7 September 1977. 
Did this question first appear on the notice paper of 4 October 1977 as question No. 1S89 and remain unanswered at the close of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department 's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as question No. 1642 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of travel and subsistence expenditure of the Department of Education were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
) Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as question No. 1643 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1 978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department 's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77? 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent? 
3 ) Did this Question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977, as Question No. 1644 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1208  (.Hansard,  20 October 1977, page 2299) how many (a) official, (b) diplomatic and (c) ordinary passports were on issue as at (i) 1 1 November 1975, (ii) 30 June 1976 and (iii) 30 June 1977. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 26 October 1977 as question No. 1902 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
) Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper on 5 October 1977 as question No. 1647 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Trade and 
Resources, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas travel and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as question No. 1636 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during the each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1606  (Hansard,  26 October 1977, page 2463), what were the reasons for the travel to Richmond and return to Canberra of (a) the Sergeant (General Hand) and (b) the Sergeant (Equipment). 
) What were the normal duties of each and what were their particular duties on 8 March 1 977. 
) Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 3 November 1977 as question No. 1941 and remain unanswered at the close of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, the following question, upon notice, on 1 March 1 978. 
1 ) What amounts of travel and subsistence expenditure of the Department of Science were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1 976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as question No. 1655 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 March 1 978: 
1 ) How many sightings of foreign (a ) vessels and ( b ) aircraft were reported to the Marine Operations Centre in each of the years from 1973 to 1977. 
What percentage of these sightings were reported by non-surveillance vessels or aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Has he received the report of the review of overseas cargo legislation; if so, when does he expect to table the report in Parliament. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1 976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of5 October 1977 as question No. 1651 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) In respect of the Stuart Highway between Darwin and Larrimah (a) what was the capital outlay, including new diversions and bridges and (b) what was the cost of (i) the total road maintenance and (ii) normal and regular maintenance during 1976-77. 
What is the expected expenditure for each of these items during 1977-78. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 26 October 1977 as question No. 1900 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Did he say in the House that  Mr John  William McDonald of 1 10 Guthridge Parade, Sale, Vic, was personally known to him. 
Is he able to say whether  Mr McDonald  was a director of Great Gippsland Farms Pty Ltd at the time the Government was negotiating with that company for the purchase of land for the Omega base. 
) Is he also able to say whether  Mr Leslie  Phillip Smart, then of 6 Grandview Avenue, Ringwood East, Vic, was also a director of Great Gippsland Farms Pty Ltd. 
If  Mr Smart  has ceased to be a director, is he able to say when he resigned. 
) Can he say if  Mr Smart  is the same person referred to by the National Party in the Victorian Parliament on 4 March 1978 as being the key figure in the $ 14m collapse of Farmers and Graziers Co-operative Ltd. 
On what occasions has he met or held discussions with  Mr Smart. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airline and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as question No. 1641 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice, on 1 March 1978. 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has the Minister travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied the Minister on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of the Minister and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
I support the remarks made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  on this matter, but unlike the honourable member for Prospect and the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  I have no clear view on the efficacy of the supposed cures of  Mr Brych.  As a member of the public I am more or less dependent on the information that comes out. It seems to me that there has been ample time for the facts of this matter to be disseminated in a proper and orderly way within the powers of the Parliament had it been deemed necessary to do so by the Minister responsible. It has yet to be determined for the public whether  Mr Brych  has a cure. I recognise the great agony that is occurring in the community because of the confusion on the whole subject. It seems to me rather incongruous that when this matter was raised by the Minister responsible in the Queensland Parliament,  Dr Edwards,  the Government of that State and the Minister's own colleagues did not see fit to carry out the process that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is now suggesting. Not understanding the medical side of what is involved in  Mr Brych  's alleged cure, I am not satisfied that there is a clear case one way or another because of the dispute in the Queensland Parliament. It seems terribly dangerous that where a sovereign government cannot itself resolve what the correct process ought to be in respect of the reports and information, we, in another parliament, should automatically pick up the matter in dispute from that sovereign government and endorse it, without having seen any of the documents- in this case, contained in the papers that the Minister for Health seeks to authorise to be publishedand without having been told by the Minister anything about the purpose for which he seeks the dissemination of the material. I rather suspect that many of the documents that the Minister seeks to have published are of government origin from another country, probably New Zealand. Therefore, ought not those documents if they emanated from departments of the Government of New Zealand and New Zealand health authorities have privilege or status in themselves? It seems to me that we are overdoing the exercise in having to give privilege of this Parliament to documents from the New Zealand Government and New Zealand health authorities. Ought not those documents- one would expect that they would comprise the majority of the papers before the Queensland Minister- if it is in the public interest to disseminate them, be disseminated automatically without having to be brought in here? 
I conclude by saying that, as has been expressed by previous speakers from this side, I see a terrible danger in what would be in effect using this Parliament to rubber-stamp with privilege a batch of papers to which the sovereign government in which this matter has originated, the Queensland State Government, has not seen fit to give privilege. I strongly urge that there be consultation between the Commonwealth Minister and the Queensland Government to resolve this matter and that the Minister report back to this Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November1975. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and /or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department 's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1 976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
) Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as Question No. 1645 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1 975. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel; (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1 976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistance did each of these amounts represent. 
3 ) Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1 977 as question No. 1656 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as question No. 1637 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
My question to the Minister for Transport refers to staff shortages at the Melbourne Flight Service Centre and the heavy overtime being worked at that location. I ask the 
Minister: Has his attention been drawn to departmental advice which describes conditions as being in an 'operationally hazardous situation' which could have serious consequences for the Department and the officers involved should an accident occur as a result of an error on the job or should a road accident occur involving officers proceeding to or from work? Is it a fact that in a recent incident it was found that an aircraft flight data strip had not been prepared and that there could have been fatal consequences? Further, is it a fact that a recent departmental study also showed that there was a need for the appointment of a further 1 1 flight service officers to the unit? Will the Minister give an assurance to the Parliament that he will take urgent action to see that staff levels are raised to the number necessary to ensure that there will be a complete restoration of proper safety standards at the Melbourne Flight Service Centre? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1973. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of travel and subsistence expenditure of the Department of Social Security were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1 976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper on 5 October 1977 as Question No. 1646 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
-I seek your indulgence to comment on the first matter you mentioned,  Mr Speaker. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 March 1 978: 
What reports have been prepared by the Interdepartmental Committee established under the chairmanship of the Department of Transport to report on the provision of the Marine Operations Centre of the most effective coordination of coastal surveillance. 
Will he table the reports for the benefit of members; if not, why not. 
-In this cognate debate we are discussing the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill and the Qantas Airways Limited (Loans Guarantee) Bill. The Bills are routine measures to enable Ansett Airlines of Australia and Qantas Airways Ltd to purchase new aircraft overseas. The Bills are not opposed by the Opposition. The purpose of the Qantas Airways Ltd (Loan Guarantee) Bill is to guarantee loans raised by Qantas Airways Ltd to finance the purchase of its 16th and 17th Boeing 747 aircraft to replace aging and less economic Boeing 707 aircraft. The guarantee is limited to $US80m. The purpose of the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill is to guarantee loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd to finance the purchase of its ninth Boeing 727 200 series aircraft in the establishment of its fleet of ten 727 200 series aircraft to replace its earlier Boeing 727 100 aircraft. In this case the guarantee will be limited to $US 10.3m or its equivalent, which represents 80 per cent of the cost of the aircraft and associated equipment. 
This debate provides an opportunity to make an examination of the financial performance of the airlines and the state of Australia 's aviation industry. Recently, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  tabled the annual financial report of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd relating to the operation of its air services for the year ended 2 July 1977, as provided in clause 1 1 of the 1972 airlines agreement. This report showed that Ansett made an operating profit before tax of $ 14.9m from airline activities. That profit represented 50 per cent of the company's total profit before tax of $29.8m. Revenue from airline activities amounted to $292.4m, or 65.3 per cent of total Ansett Transport Industries revenue of $447.6m. On the expenditure side, airline activities accounted for $277.4m, or 66.4 per cent of total Ansett Transport Industries expenditure of $4 17.8m for the year. For the information of honourable members I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a document giving details of Ansett Transport Industries airline activities for the year ended 2 July 1977. The document is titled 'Profit and Loss Statement, Balance Sheet'. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197804136_44_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197804136_45_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197804136_45_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197804136_45_3.jpg"></graphic>

The meagre information provided by these extracts does little to facilitate a comparison of the financial performance of Ansett and TAA. If anything, it contributes to the view expressed by some that the duopoly domestic airline system is holding Australian air travellers to ransom. What this Government has to realise is that airline services are a form of public transport. Ansett and TAA each hold regular public transport licences and the public should have as much information as possible on their financial performances so as to be able to properly assess the efficiency of their operations and their true profit levels. It is time that conservative governments stopped treating the aviation industry as a sacred cow and opened up those sacred chambers to public examination because, after all, the public pays for everything. TransAustralia Airlines makes available for public scrutiny detailed accounts of its operations, and I sincerely hope that Ansett will see fit to do likewise. There should not be a need for government regulations in this matter. Ansett would benefit from a better public understanding of its airline activities, and certainly the public would be able to recognise the problems that face the industry as a whole. 
Some additional data may be obtained from an examination of the consolidated statistical summary shown on page 17 of the 1977 annual report of Ansett Transport Industries. A comparison with data from TAA's 1977 annual report shows that Ansett 's revenue load factor, which takes into account passengers, freight and mail, was 62.2 per cent for the period covered by the report. Unfortunately the figures are not strictly comparable because the revenue load factor for TAA takes into account passengers only. However, on this basis TAA's revenue load factor was 67.7 per cent. In respect of the number of paying passengers, Ansett had 4.86 million and TAA has 4.12 million. Ansett 's percentage increase in passengers over the 1976 figure was 1.7 per cent and in the case of TAA it was 1.5 per cent. We come then to revenue from passengers expressed as a percentage of total airline operations revenue. In the case of Ansett it amounted to 87.8 per cent and in the case of TAA 86.3 per cent. Total revenue from airline operations was $292.4m for Ansett and $234.3m for TAA. 
General criticism is often voiced at the higher level of domestic air fares compared with international air fares. Again this is an area where the Minister for Transport could have assisted public debate and understanding by making public the aviation policy reviews so that the full information could have been examined and, hopefully, understood or at least interpreted. Several factors contribute to the higher level of domestic aviation costs but without full access to the pertinent costs I am unable to state to what degree they are responsible for domestic air operating costs being higher than international air operating costs. However, I know that these factors include the fact that domestic air services operate over shorter average stage hauls than international air services. For example, the average stage passenger haul for TAA in 1976-77 was 813 kilometres compared with an average haul of 7,259 kilometres for Qantas in the same period. This means that on average TAA aircraft had to make approximately nine times as many landings and takeoffs as Qantas. 
A second factor is excise on aviation fuel. Domestic airlines pay excise on fuel; international airlines are exempt. This item cost TAA $ 17.5m or more than half of its total fuel bill of $32.6m in 1976-77. Ansett 's report shows a total figure for fuel of $ 16.7m. However, because of the nature of the items in the report I am not sure whether this includes a minor component for operations other than airline activities. A third factor is that international operators benefit from the better operating economics of larger aircraft with more advanced engineering technology. For example, a Boeing 747 aircraft is considerably cheaper to operate per seat/kilometre than the smaller and older DC9 jet aircraft used by the domestic airlines. 
Another criticism frequently made of Ansett and TAA is the clustering of flight departure times, or parallel scheduling as it is known. Recently the Minister was reported as having requested the airlines to do something to remedy this practice. It was a rather cynical request, given that he has had 2V4 years since his Government was returned to office, and several years prior to 1972, in which to do something. He now makes that request. I suspect that the request was rather tongue in cheek although it was a change from his usual response to aviation issues of using expressions such as 'crazy' or 'absolute nonsense'. We ought to look at the subject more closely. As I see the situation Tasmanians and 
Western Australians appear to be most disadvantaged by parallel scheduling. Whilst this practice is related to market demands, that is, the airlines must provide seats when people want to travel or they miss out on the business, I believe more can be done to meet public objections to the clustering or bunching of flight departure times. For instance, the sharing of days or departure times or the pooling of revenues on carefully selected routes, as is done amongst international airlines such as Qantas and British Airways, could go some of the way towards enabling more evenly spaced departure times and so providing a more acceptable service to the public. 
I must return to the point that aviation is not a sacred cow any longer. It is there to serve the community and its services and facilities ought to be designed with that purpose uppermost in the mind of the Government. The suggestions I have just made should be at least looked at. It must be remembered that there was relatively little done to rationalise air services until this was forced on airlines by the tighter trading conditions of the past few years. As regular public transport operators, Ansett and TAA have a responsibility to hold air fares as low as practicable. This could be approached in several ways. For example, it could be done by the Government ensuring that profit levels are reasonable. We have to remember that this Government at the end of 1976, 1 think, issued a financial directive to TAA to raise its profit return from 10 per cent to 1 5 per cent. Naturally, as the airlines operate in tandem that enabled the other airline to increase its fares. The airlines then had to have a higher fare structure to meet a higher - 
It was increased from 10 per cent to 1 5 per cent, I understood. 
The Minister said that he wanted TAA to match Ansett. I am not sure of that and I accept his comment. What I am saying is that the raising rather than dropping of that profit level from 10 per cent to 15 per cent in effect built in a higher price structure because the price structure had to be designed to return a 1 5 per cent dividend rather than a 10 per cent dividend. This problem could be approached in several ways and I have already referred to the Government ensuring that profit levels are reasonable. Alternatively, it could be overcome by increasing load factors on aircraft or by containing costs. In the cost area the airlines and the Government should be looking at the feasibility of the establishment of joint operations in the provision of expensive flight training facilities and maintenance equipment, especially when wide bodied aircraft such as the Airbus, the Boeing 72 7X or the Lockheed Tri-Star are introduced into domestic use. These larger aircraft with better operating economics per seat/kilometre could help to offset future cost increases. Likewise the continued improvement in the efficiencies of airline operations generally will help lower the industry's cost structure. 
Continued implementation of the import parity price policy on liquid fuels will create heavy cost increases for domestic airlines. Last year, TAA told a select committee on tourism that full implementation of the import parity policy would increase its fuel bill by 50 per cent over the next 10 years. As fuel costs constitute approximately 15 per cent of total costs of that airline's operations the impact on the cost and fare structures will be substantial. 
A further area of high cost to the industry is the provision of airport and terminal facilities. Suffice to say at this stage that the Aviation Industry Review Committee, chaired by  Sir Lennox  Hewitt and whose report the Minister has consistently refused to make available, reported that 'aviation buildings should be utilitarian not monumental' and, further, that 'the capital cost and operating cost for every passenger boarding at the TAA section of Tullamarine are more than double those the airline built and operates at Sydney airport'. A clear assessment of the decision of the previous conservative government about the standard of buildings to be erected at Tullamarine can be made from those statements. The public will be paying for them for ever or until such time as they are changed or replaced. Clearly then, in the future, airport terminals ought to be related to the public's need. They ought to be utilitarian and not related to politicians' egos, having in mind the fact that the costs, and any extravagance, have to be borne by air travellers. 
The second last matter to which I wish to refer as regards domestic aviation concerns aircraft and airport utilisation. The Department of Transport airline statistics for the year 31 December 1977 show a continuing trend towards the improved utilisation of aircraft. In this case I shall compare the 1974 figures with the 1977 figures. The number of hours flown in that period decreased from 294,022 to 268,024- an 0.9 per cent reduction. The number of passengers increased by 0.45 million to 9.75 million. Aircraft movements at major airports also reflected an improving trend. At Brisbane airport- and I know that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  is very interested in this so I shall speak very slowly- aircraft movements increased by 1.9 per cent while the number of passengers increased by 4.2 per cent. In Melbourne, the increase in aircraft movements was minus 0.7 per cent while the number of passengers increased by 4.6 per cent; in Sydney, there was a 1.1 per cent increase in aircraft movements with a 4.6 per cent increase in the number of passengers; in Perth there was an 8.8 per cent increase in aircraft movements with a 13.5 per cent increase in the number of passengers; in Adelaide, there was a 3.5 per cent increase in aircraft movements with an 8.5 per cent increase in the number of passengers. 
I wish to refer briefly to the Qantas Airways Ltd (Loan Guarantee) Bill which is the other Bill being dealt with in this cognate debate. Qantas 's profit for the year ended 31 March 1977 was $12m before tax. That represents a dramatic turnaround on its performance during the previous few years. The number of passengers carried in that financial year as compared with the previous financial year rose from 1.49 million to 1.59 million. This is reflected in the increase in the revenue seat factor from 61.2 per cent to 62 per cent and an increase in the revenue load factor from 56.2 per cent to 58.5 per cent. Present indications are that Qantas improved its position still further in the year just concluded. I hope that this Parliament will not have to wait a year for the results of Qantas for the financial year ended 31 March 1978-13 days ago- as it had to wait for the results of Qantas 's 1976-77 operations. However, the future of Qantas is bound up in the decisions on international aviation policy to be made in a few months time following the recent closed shop' review of policy. But I shall return to that a little later in my remarks. 
The other matter which I neglected to mention in relation to domestic aviation is the two airline agreement. Honourable members will recall that this was drawn up about 26 years ago. It was seen as a device to break the monopoly of the national airline, TAA, and to ensure the growth and viability of the competitive private airline Ansett or ANA- I am not sure what it was called at the time. Nowadays that policy is seen by many, both within and outside the aviation industry, to have produced a monster, a duopoly in the provision of trunk line domestic air services. It is claimed by some that it perpetuates a barrier to wider flexibility in the range of air services and lower domestic air fares. I do not propose to accept or reject those views, but simply to make some comment on air services as they exist. A much better public understanding of the advantage and disadvantage of the agreement would prevail if, as I mentioned earlier, the Minister were to make the reports of those two reviews available for public dissemination. Even at this late stage I again ask the Minister to make the reports of those committees available so that we can then have in the Australian community an informed discussion of aviation policy. 
This leads me to an area a little away from the two airline agreement itself to the ancillary arrangements and particularly to the relationships of the second airlines, to commuter or smaller services that feed on the major airlines such as Ansett and TAA. A copy of a Press release has just been made available to me and I am seriously concerned at the nature of what is contained in it. To my mind, it reinforces the claim I have made consistently on behalf of the Opposition over the past seven months and that is that the reviews into aviation policy should have been by way of public inquiry. This Press release has been issued by the managing director of South Australian and Territorial Air ServicesSAATAS the airline company which has closed down its Northern Territory operation. In the Press release the Minister for Transport and the National Country Party are accused of porkbarrel politics and discrimination. It calls for a royal commission to investigate financial and government links between air companies in the Territory and the National Country Party. The Press release states:  . . the directors of SAATAS - 
And the Minister will obviously be well aware of this- announced they would run down their Northern Territory flying operations because the opposition airline, Connair, had been given massive and unfair government assistance. 
The release continues- and I regard this a very serious matter: 

 Mr Cavill said that he has been consistently refused the opportunity of meeting  Mr Nixon  and presenting the facts and merits of important matters concerning air transport services in the Northern Territory to him. 'We can compete against Connair but we cannot compete with the Commonwealth',  Mr Cavill  said, 'Particularly when faced with the use of arbitary power to our consistent disadvantage when we have absolutely no appeal from the decisions of or access to the responsible Minister. ' 
Reference is then made to the fact that a senator for the Northern Territory,  Senator Kilgariff,  and a member of this place,  Mr Calder-  and I think this is well known- are past directors of Connair. The Press release also refers to  Mr Damian  Miller, vice  president  of the National Country Party in Aiice Springs, as being a director of Connair. The Press release continues: 
The immediate past  president  - and this is a very serious section of the claim by Mr Cavill- of the Party's Northern Territory executive,  Mr Eric  Manuell, is a director of Rossair Aviation Sales Pty Ltd which trades as Chartair, a company which has been granted a Territory charter licence and federal government assistance. SAATAS has legal advice that with respect to scheduled station services granted to Chartair and another Katherine operator the Commonwealth has acted in a discriminatory manner actionable in the High Court of Australia. 
The release goes on to say: 

 Mr Cavill said that in a recent telephone conversation with a senior Department of Transport official, he asked what would happen if he 'put up the shutters one night and made a statement'. 'There would be a lot of red faces and that's it', replied the official. 'You are not getting any support at all '. 
I have referred to that letter and quoted that Press release because they highlight the need to bring out into the open the decision-making processes of the aviation industry. I repeat that the industry is there to provide a public transport service. As each year passes, air transport will become more and more important in the daily lives of Australians and more important to the functioning of our economy. 
I think it is incredible that 1 5 or 1 6 weeks after a secret interdepartmental committee inquired into the provision of aviation services in the Northern Territory and looked specifically at the problems of Connair and SAATAS a major operator- the largest operator- is now going out of business. That operator is going out of business because it believes- it has had legal advice on the matter- that it has been improperly discriminated against by the Minister and the Government because of the close political links of the National Country Party with the opponent airline, Connair. I do not know whether those claims are true or false. I am not claiming privilege to something that has not been said outside. I am referring to a Press release that was released this afternoon. 
I do not know whether it is that old. I received it only this afternoon. I understood that it was to be released half an hour ago. I am acting on the advice I have been given. The fact is that a secret IDC inquiry was held and now the major operator is going out of business. Something stinks in the state of Denmark. I asked in this Parliament, by way of questions on notice, for the IDC report to be tabled. The Minister, from recollection, gave a blunt no. He gave no reason. He just said no, as is usual in his relationship with us. A most serious situation has developed. We have to look at it if we are responsibly and properly to look at the management of passenger transport in this country. The burden is in front of the Minister; it is his responsibility. 
His party has been mentioned, and the Minister stands as the chief accused. 
-No doubt, if  Mr Cavill  is not correct in his claims we shall see some legal action from the Minister in another place. I submit that if the claims made by  Mr Cavill  and his airline are substantiated there are serious grounds for the resignation of the Minister or at least the holding of a royal commission of inquiry, which is what  Mr Cavill  has called for. 
I turn now to international aviation, which is the pet subject of our Minister. Here again we have the same kind of situation. The Minister is a gonna'. He is always 'gonna' do something about it. He is always 'gonna' make a decision. To date he has not done so. It is like, as I read today, a long pregnancy. I think  Sir Lennox  Hewitt - 
The Minister is responsible, not me. I am only here to watch him. In this area, as I have said over and over again, the statements- some based on fact and some based on less than fact- consistently made by people within the industry and outside the industry who have an interest one way or the other have confused people. In reports of recent years people in the travel industry have said that there is evidence of a deferral of travel by people who would have travelled but for these conflicting statements. As early as 1976 Air Hibiscus, Simon Warrender and several others of whom the Minister is well aware were saying that such and such a cut price service would start late in 1976 or some time in 1977. Like that long pregnancy, nothing has been born. 
The Minister did not say that. I am saying that these claims have been made. At no stage has the Minister sought to rebut or defuse some of these claims. The Government should have been doing that at the time. 
He has run away. He has tried to be all things to all airlines. That is the problem. That has caused vast public confusion. Honourable members opposite may laugh about it, but it is a serious matter. On the  AM  program this morning it was reported that 20 Americans in San Francisco who had bought tickets from Qantas to come to Australia now find that they cannot travel here. Again, Qantas is getting the blame. I come back to the Minister's responsibility. Qantas is a publicly-owned trading enterprise. It ought to be allowed to operate and it ought to be directed to operate as a public trading enterprise. There should not be any hobbles on it, if that is the right word to use. 
The Minister says that it is a beautiful word. Qantas should not be hobbled by some sort of heavy handed financial directive. Qantas has become the bunny in many ways in the argument. We want to see the report of the international aviation review tabled in the Parliament. As much information as possible should be distributed to the community so that the true facts can be made known and people can understand what is involved. 
We on this side of the House believe and have said for some time that there is a capacity for a reduction in international air fares. That ought to be done as soon as possible and done in as public a way as possible. As the Australian dollar has been teetering, as our balance of payments position continues to worsen and as we borrow billions of dollars from overseas to prop up the Australian dollar we find the debit of travel expenditure on the balance of payments has more than doubled. In 1971-72 it was $133m. It is now about $280m. There has been a net outflow of about $280m. The figure may be plus or minus a little as those are the figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics for the year 1975-76. The latest figures might show a small reduction. When we get into a bad balance of payments position the importance of the consideration of this area will assume a much higher magnitude. 
The unknown factor is what will be the size of the travel explosion. If fares drop to the levels indicated by Qantas and British Airways, by what factor will the number of Australians travelling out of Australia increase and by what factor will the number of travellers coming into Australia increase? Because of the lack of information, it is a guessing game. But, whatever the guessing game, if there is a substantial reduction in air fares there will be a substantial increase in the number of Australians leaving this country on holidays and there will be a corresponding substantial increase in outgoings. In this worsening balance of payments situation it is quite accurate to say that the Treasury will be looking at proposals to put limits on the amount of funds that people travelling abroad can take with them. That aspect has to be taken into consideration. Again, the responsibility lies with the Government. If we had everything out in the open - 
-You wanted to be in government. 
It may not prove to be a misfortune. All these matters should be looked at. In conclusion, I ask the Minister again to consider making available the reports of those committees. I believe that in many ways the approaches to some of the subjects contained in the report could be on a bipartisan or national basis. But if the Minister chooses to deal with the matter on a party political basis it will be to the disadvantage of Australia. 
-The purpose of this Bill, the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1978, is to provide $300m to the States over the five years from 1 July 1978 to 30 June 1983 by way of non-repayable grants for the upgrading of public transport systems. Essentially, the legislation is a refinement in the light of experience of the pioneer urban public transport legislation enacted by the Whitlam Labor Government in 1974. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. However, I wish to make a number of points. A major deficiency is the total inadequacy of the funds being made available over the five-year program outlined earlier. Despite the claim in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that there will be an increase of more than 50 per cent in financial assistance for urban transport in the current program, close examination of the Bill shows that that claim cannot be substantiated. I will return to that point a little later. 
I remind honourable members that even after the rapid growth since 1949 in Australia's population and the expansion of major urban areas, and even after years and years of talk and representations from State government, nothing was done in 23 years of successive conservative governments to face up to the problems that had developed for urban passenger transport. In the McMahon conservative Government's last hurrah, the 1972 Budget, no provision was made for urban public transport. The first allocation of federal funds for urban public transport was contained in legislation introduced into this House by the Whitlam Labor Government in 1974. That the States were appreciative of that initiative is evidenced by a Press release on 19 February 1973 by the New South Wales Liberal National Country Party Minister for Transport in which he said: 
The important thing is that the public transport system in Sydney will be transformed - 
MrBaillieu-Huh! 
-You had a Liberal State Government. You can understand what happened. He said: 
The important thing is that the public transport system in Sydney will be transformed and I give full marks to the Federal Transport Minister,  Mr Jones,  for the part he has played. He is the first Federal Transport Minister in the history of Australia to have obtained Commonwealth assistance for public transport. 
The acceptance of a share of federal responsibility for the financial burden of providing and upgrading urban public transport was part of the Australia Labor Party's policy of co-operative federalism. The offer of assistance for urban public transport was coupled with a proposal to maximise rail, road, sea and air transport coordination through the Interstate Commission under an Act which this Government and this Minister have refused to proclaim and an offer to accept transfer of State railways to the Commonwealth in response to requests by the conservative Premiers of Victoria and New South Wales at the dme. The non-achievement of those objectives was not the fault of the Labor Government. The reasons lay in the disruption of stable government and the proper parliamentary processes by the conservative-controlled Senate and a complete lack of co-operation by conservative State governments. The States that cooperated fully received substantive budgetary advantages which this Government and this Minister attempted unsuccessfully to reverse. 
As with his efforts since 1 975 to distort the historical basis and origin of the urban public transport financial assistance scheme, the Minister sought in his second reading speech to imply that this legislation provides for the States a multiplicity of advantages that were not available under Labor's pioneer legislation. We should recall that under Labor's 1974 legislation the following are some of the aspects that were established and are carried forward in this Bill: Firstly, programs being put forward by the States; secondly, financial assistance to the States on a two-thirds/one-third basis; thirdly, fiveyear funding arrangements as set out in the program annexures to the Urban Public Transport Agreement Act 1974; and, fourthly, processes for consultations with the States, and my inquiries on this subject amongst the States have confirmed that it was procedures established by the Whitlam Labor Government for successful ministerial and officer level consultations that have been a major factor in advancing the scheme. 
I should like to interpose at this point and pay tribute to the officers of the Federal Department of Transport and their State counterparts who have been involved in these consultations over the years. It is a complex area and there has to be a lot of give and take. A lot of obstinancy and obstruction has been caused not by the officers but by politicians, and I think it is proper that we make some sort of recognition of the services those officers have provided. Finally, in this Bill there is provision for corridors linking regional centres with capital cities. I turn now to some of the major criticisms of the Bill. In his second reading speech the Minister for Transport blithely referred to the $300m being provided over the next five years as being more than 50 per cent greater than the total funds of slightly more than $190m provided for the current scheme. What the Minister failed to say was that in Labor's original proposals it was envisaged that a total of $500m would be made available over the five years to 1978 subject to increased allocations to cover cost escalation in that time. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  would not know. It is out the window, he said. 
I suggest that you ask the Treasurer. It is no wonder that the Government is in trouble when it has members on its side with maths like that. It is true that in 1975-76 no provision was made for funding new projects but there was an agreement that expenditure on such new projects would be funded in subsequent Budgets. At the same time, $2.5m was made available to meet cost escalations for 1975-76. On coming to office the Minister reneged on those arrangements and cancelled the cost escalation provision of $2. 5m. That only $190m was provided for the current scheme is the direct responsibility of this Government and the Minister. It was his action and Government's decision. The truth of the matter is that only $200m is directly allocated under this legislation and it is allocated in the following manner: $70m to New South Wales, $60m to Victoria, $35m to Queensland, $20m to South Australia, $10m to Western Australia and $5m to Tasmania. I will return to discuss Tasmania later. The balance of $100m is to be distributed amongst the States at the rate of $20m a year on a needs and priority basis as set out in sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 8 of the Bill. That provision reads: 
An additional amount of $20,000,000 is available, in respect of each year to which this Act applies, for allocation among the States, as the Minister determines, having regard to the needs of public transport in urban areas in each of the States in that year, for the purpose of increasing the maximum grant for each of the States in respect of that year. 
In the Minister's own jargon this means that $20m will be up for grabs each year. The key words in the clause are 'as the Minister determines'. The Parliament well knows the depths of wisdom that are plumbed when the distribution of public moneys is left to a National Country Party Minister to determine. However, there is no certainty nor undertaking that all the States will share in the distribution of the $100m. It could well eventuate that some States will not get any share at all. The Minister's claim that the distribution of the $100m as envisaged will provide greater flexibility is in effect a transparent cover for the creation of another pork-barrelling exercise by the Country Party. 
What clause 8 of the Bill means is that the Minister will be able to distribute largesse as he sees fit and patronise favoured son State governments at the taxpayers' expense. I have no doubt that subsequent events will show that the needs and priorities of conservative State governments will prove to be greatest in election years. The method of distribution, while it may provide a little more flexibility in administrative procedures, is wholly unsatisfactory from an equity and public accountability viewpoint. It could be that the allocation of the $20m as proposed may result in another bunfight such as we have seen recently in relation to Aurukun and Mornington Island. In fact some of the States, recognising the unsatisfactory nature of clause 8, made lengthy submissions to the Minister urging that the full $300m of the program be allocated at the beginning and that it be incorporated in the schedule of this Bill. The Minister's rejection of those submissions reinforced the fears that clause 8 will set up an annual pork-barrelling exercise. 
However, there is another unsatisfactory aspect to clause 8 which is linked to the failure of the Minister to make provision for cost escalation of projects. The Minister has indicated to the States in response to requests for cost escalation provisions that the States may make estimates of cost escalations of projects and include these in their original estimates. In effect this means that the $100m to be provided is for cost escalation. If this is the case, then it is a wholly unsatisfactory way in which to be disbursing taxpayers' funds and I believe that it is a matter that ought to be examined by the Auditor-General and certainly by the Department of Finance. It appears that the provisions of clause 8 are intended to be interpreted by the Minister in a variety of ways not specified in the Bill. 
I ask the Minister to explain to the House precisely how he intends to implement clause 8. If it is his intent that the $ 100m is to be used as a disguised cost escalation, then the $200m allocated in this Bill is comparable with the $ 190m for the current program. The increase in allocated urban public transport funds for the next five years is then $ 10m, or about five per cent- not more than 50 per cent in increase, as claimed by the Minister. Whether we consider the total allocation of $300m in this Bill in money terms or in real terms, it is clear that that is not an amount about which the Government can feel proud. But it is in line with the general performance of this corrupt conservative Government. 
Events are proving that it is a corrupt Government, and as each day goes by we will see more evidence of the corruption that surrounds this Government. I emphasise that the total Federal commitment to urban public transport for the next five years is limited to $300m. Given that the average inflation rate in that period will be close to double figures, it follows that, in real terms, the States face a diminishing share of Federal funds for their urban public transport programs. This is borne out by statistics prepared by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library on the share of gross domestic product allocated to urban public transport in the period 1 974-75 to 1977-78. They show that Commonwealth Government expenditure on urban public transport expressed as a proportion of gross domestic product was 0.08 per cent in 1974-75, 0.06 per cent in 1975-76, 0.08 per cent in 1976-77 and the estimated figure for 1977-78 is 0.07 per cent. So we see a decline from 0.08 per cent in 1974-75 to 0.07 per cent in the current year. The actual expenditure is shown in the table as $63m. We must remember that the maximum provision under this Bill is $60m per year over the next five years. The drop in 1975-76 is explained by under-expenditure on the part of the States due to long lead-in times on projects. 
As mentioned, the Bill provides a fixed amount of $60m per year for the next five years. Hence the gross domestic product figure for 1978-79 will be considerably less than the 0.07 per cent shown for 1977-78. It is disturbing to note that this share of gross domestic product going to urban public transport will decline still further in each of the four successive years. This Government's low priority for urban public transport expenditure is highlighted when we recall that the Treasury will collect an extra $ 1 80m from motorists this financial year as a result of its import parity pricing policy on liquid fuels, a policy which is supposed to promote conservation of liquid energy supplies. One of the most effective means of improving energy utilisation efficiency is the upgrading and installation of public passenger transport services. Studies by the Independent Commission on Transport in the United Kingdom have shown that a one per cent transfer of passenger traffic from the private car to buses would reduce the total oil consumed by cars and buses by 0.5 per cent. It we extend that proposition we find that a ten per cent shift in passengers from private cars to buses means a five per cent saving in total fuel consumed by those cars and buses. Clearly, increased Federal government funds are needed to provide urban public transport as an alternative to high energy cost private car transport. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the figures provided by the Parliamentary Library. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197804136_62_0.jpg"></graphic>

-What is clearly lacking is a national transport energy plan designed to conserve energy supplies in transport. The slide in funds revealed by the statistics on the share of the gross domestic product going to urban public transport exposes as false the Government's claim of concern for urban public transport. 
There are two other matters on which I seek clarification from the Minister. In clause 3, the Interpretation clause, under the definition of a project' item (a) reads:  to improve the quality, capacity, efficiency or frequency of the public transport system . . . 
It seems to me that the inclusion of the word safety' would have been appropriate at that point. It may be that it will be covered in the ministerial guidelines referred to in clause 5, but I should appreciate an explanation on this point from the Minister. Secondly, in clause 4, which deals with urban areas, no mention is made of the population definition of 40,000 to 100,000 referred to in the explanatory notes. I should have thought that the population figures could have been set out in the Bill. Again an explanation from the Minister would be of assistance to the Parliament. 
All State governments are confronted with heavy investment programs to improve the range and quality of their public transport services. The extension of eligibility for financial assistance to include provincial cities like Ballarat, Bendigo, Gosford,Wyong, Toowoomba, the Gold Coast, Townsville, Rockhampton, Cairns and Launceston and the Blue Mountains area is welcomed. 
People in the provincial cities have just as much need for efficient public transport services as those in the major cities. What this Government has to realise is that the deterioration and deprivation of the public transport systems, resulted from this neglect over a period of 23 years to 1972. State governments are now faced with enormous public transport investment programs to remedy the neglect of those 23 years. New South Wales recently let a tender for 500 Mercedes-Benz buses at a cost of $40m. 
But I wish to deal more specifically with Tasmania and the shabby treatment it has received under the provisions of this Bill. The Minister will recall that the Bill provides $lm per annum to Tasmania a total of $5m. The Minister will recall also that he has had correspondence from the Tasmanian Minister for Transport seeking a revision of the amount to be allocated. If we compare what Tasmania is receiving under this legislation with what it received as its share from other legislation, we notice that, as regards urban roads, Tasmania receives 5 per cent of its total funds for 1977-78. Under the Transport Planning and Research Act, Tasmania receives 2.7 per cent of total funds. It is interesting to note that Tasmania is disadvantaged in this way yet no one is in the chamber to represent that State. 
-Well, there are five Liberal Tasmanian members and not one of them is in the chamber. But in this legislation if the $5m is taken as a percentage of the total allocation of $200m, it amounts to 1.66 per cent as mentioned earlier, there is no guarantee that the State will receive any of the $20m per annum that is up for grabs. I point out to the Minister that Tasmania, in comparison with the other States, is being disadvantaged. The Minister will recall that the Tasmanian Minister for Transport recently wrote to him, saying: 
On the basis of demonstrated needs the State population and allocations in other transport programs the guaranteed allocation to Tasmania should be at least 3 per cent of total appropriation. 
I wish to refer briefly to some of the projects with which the Tasmanian Government is confronted. There are the new Volvo buses for Launceston and Hobart under the continuing bus replacement program and the purchases from the Commonwealth of the bus depot at Mornington on the eastern shore of the Derwent. Honourable members will recall that that building was originally constructed from 'disaster' funds. Tasmania faces the funding of expenditure carried over from 1977-78 with the purchase of 10 Volvo buses for which insufficient funds were allocated in the current financial year by the Commonwealth. It faces also the urgent need to establish a new bus depot and workshops to replace existing facilities in the Hobart area. The Commonwealth accepted this project as a commitment under the previous program for the establishment of new facilities at Springfield early in 1975. The Commonwealth authorised the purchase of suitable land and provided financial assistance to obtain it. Despite repeated representations from Tasmania for additional funds to complete the projects in successive years, the Commonwealth has refused to make further moneys available. I know that the Minister for Transport will state in his reply that it is the State Government's fault and that the five Liberal Party members from Tasmania will jump up and echo his remarks. But let us face up to the facts of the situation. 
At least one honourable member from Tasmania has come into the chamber to help to put a case for that State. In these issues Tasmania is having loaded on to it, like all the other States, responsibility for the administration of services that were previously the full responsibility of the Federal Government. It must follow that the ability of the States to carry out programs such as the urban public transport program is severely limited. It is not good enough and it is no answer for honourable members opposite to rise in this place and say that Tasmania or New South Wales is receiving $Xm in untied grants. That is not the answer. Honourable members opposite know very well that that is not the answer. This Government does not have a genuine interest in Tasmania. It must be remembered that the Australian Maritime College was approved for establishment at Launceston by the Labor Government. The previous conservative government abolished the freight subsidy concerning Tasmania and the Minister for Transport withdrew the  Australian Trader  from the Bass Strait service. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  went on strike at the time but on full pay. I am sure that the waterside workers would like to go on strike under those conditions. 
Let me get down to the serious side of the issues that face Tasmania. I have outlined five of the substantial public transport projects that the Tasmanian Government has to meet. Let us put an end to the cheap politicking from the members of the Liberal and National Country Parties and have a genuine and responsible approach to meeting Tasmania's financial problems. We do not want a repetition of the ferry pontoon fiasco. I conclude on this note: The amount of funds being made available by way of fixed allocation for the next five years represents about a 5 per cent improvement on the current program. There is no quarantee in the legislation that the $ 100m that is up for grabs at the rate of $20m each year will be distributed to ensure that some of the money will go to each State. We believe that the power placed in the hands of the Minister represents a pork-barrelling exercise, but because of the more attractive features of the Bill and because it will give at least some assistance to urban public transport- for that we must be grateful- the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Depanment 's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1 976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
3 ) Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as Question No. 1648 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
3 ) Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as question No. 1652 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
-The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  stated that he has not seen the Press statement of  Mr Cavill  of 13 April. The truth is, and  Hansard  may record this, that I passed him a copy of the Press statement across the table during the debate. I think that the Minister now recalls that. At the time he asked me what it was and he took it away with him. So he did have a copy of the statement at the time it was released. I made some statements in this Parliament on that date relating to the information provided to me, and I will come to that later, but I did not make any charges against anybody. I simply referred to statements and said that if they could be substantiated the situation was serious. Again, I will refer to that later. I released a Press statement on 20 April, and I point out that it was my Press release, not 'their' Press release, that is, the Press release of Cavill and Morris, as the Minister said in the statement he has just concluded. Again, that was an inaccuracy. In that statement I said that I believed a senior Cabinet Minister was seeking to cover up the Government's financial dealings with an airline operator that has close links with the National Country Party. I have no reason to alter that statement in the light of what the Minister has said and what he has tabled in this Parliament. I went on to say: 
The manner in which the Transport Minister,  Mr Nixon,  has handled the issue of air charter licences in the Northern Territory and the payment of government subsidies to Connair Pty Ltd can only be described as a public scandal. I have documents which show the Minister has made misleading public statements about the Government's sustained preferential treatment of Connair and its discrimination against a rival operator, South Australian and Territorial Air Services. 
I stand by that statement, and I will be able to show that there was a reasonable basis for making it. On the program  AM on  2 1 April I said: 
I would be extremely surprised at any public statement from the Government on this issue which would provide all of the information that needs to be examined. 
I think that that is the best way to summarise the Minister's statement. It does provide some of the information but it contains a number of inaccuracies and distortions, and I will come to those a little later. The Opposition welcomes the Minister's statement relating to the provision of air services in the Northern Territory. The report mentioned by the Minister has only just been made available to me. I have not had a chance to look at it closely but I do have a general understanding of it. Despite the inaccuracies and deficiencies in the Minister's statement, he has created an opportunity for Parliament to examine more closely the manipulations that have taken place in this area of government responsibility. On a personal basis, I must confess that I am touched, in fact I am flattered, by the Minister's show of concern for me, but I wish that he could have been more truthful in his remarks. The Minister has previously misled the Parliament and the public on the South Australian and Territorial Air Services Pty Ltd and Connair Pty Ltd subsidy issue, and his statement today further compounds his earlier actions. 
Let us consider the background of the events that have occurred in what I term Australia's own Nixon affair. Both SAATAS and Connair have operated air services in the Northern Territory for many years. Connair is the holder of a registered public transport licence and has recieved a $9m subsidy from taxpayers' funds over that period. SAATAS has operated as a private enterprise charter operator without subsidy. It has not sought a subsidy, nor is it seeking one. No doubt each has been vigorous in its own area of responsibility and activity within the marketplace. I think it is reasonable to expect that, if private enterprise is to have competition, a competitive keenness would be displayed and there would be some offers to buy and some offers to sell in order to get the major competitor out of the market if possible. In his statement the Minister referred to that being the normal to-ing and fro-ing of the commercial marketplace. SAATAS has claimed for years that it could provide without subsidy similar services to those provided by Connair, and there is the core of the issue. That is the case SAATAS has been putting. It has not received a subsidy and it is not seeking one. It claims that it can provide the services without a subsidy. 
I do not have a brief for Connair nor do I have a brief for SAATAS. The Opposition is concerned about the proper and responsible disbursement of public funds and the proper and responsible administration of government affairs. The issues before the Parliament are why, how and in what manner some $9m of public money has been paid to Connair, and whether the Minister has acted in the discharge of his responsibilities in a proper and responsible way. On the evidence that I have seen, and it is available to the Minister, I say quite firmly that he has not. The close affiliation of the Minister's party and Connair has already been documented and I will not waste the time of the House by going over that again. From the very beginning the subsidy arrangements have been shrouded in secrecy. I want to refer particularly to a document that was circulated by CAPL, as it was then known, on 9 November 1965 referring to assistance to the company. It states: 
You will have read my memorandum of 1 1 October regarding the recent Government decision. Since then you will have seen or heard of the Press release made by the Minister,  Senator Henty,  covering the same subject. No mention was made in this of the Government financial assistance re capital, of f 50,000 to shift to 7-Mile, and f 200,000 to assist completion of re-equipment. This omission was made for very good political reasons, as publicity for this Government action would only result in criticism from some section of the general public, which could be detrimental to us . . . 
-It was circulated by the managing director of CAPL, I am informed. 
-The managing director of CAPL. 
-Connellan Airways Pty Ltd. Surely the Minister remembers that. I will seek leave from the Minister to table any of the papers to which I refer. 
Do you want them incorporated in  Hansard! 
-I want firstly to rebut the falsities in the Minister's statement. I first spoke with  Mr Cavill  approximately one and a half hours before I raised this matter in the Parliament on 13 April.  Mr Cavill  rang me and read to me the contents of a Press statement he was going to make. He telexed to me a copy of his Press release, which I brought into this House and gave the Minister. I made no charges at that time, and page 1528 of  Hansard  sets out what I said: 
. if the claims made by  Mr Cavill  and his airline are substantiated there are serious grounds for the resignation of the Minister or at least the holding of a royal commission of inquiry, which is what  Mr Cavill  has called for. 
The only time I met  Mr Cavill  was the next day when I inspected the correspondence and copies of telexes between himself, his company, the Department and the Minister. I shall refer to those later. The Minister referred on page 2 of his prepared statement to 'their' Press statement of 20 April 1978. 'Their' Press statement did not exist. I issued a Press statement on 20 April. No joint Press statement was ever made. On pages 7 and 8 of his statement the Minister states that  Mr Cavill  had not sought a meeting with him since 6 October 1977. The facts are to be found in a telex sent to the Minister and dated 20 October 1977. The first section of the telex reads: 
This telex urgently requests that no further charter licences be issued in the Northern Territory until such time as my company has had the opportunity of presenting an objection to you and of having the merits of that objection considered by you. 
I respectfully point out that we have not had the opportunity of discussing the whole matter of Connair Pty Ltd and the Northern Territory with you and that at our recent meeting in Canberra this opportunity was not made available to us. 
The second last paragraph on page 3 of the same telex reads:  . . I request again that before any further alterations to policy be made or before any further licences be issued in the Northern Territory I be given an opportunity of presenting the matter again and discussing the merits with you and the Deputy Prime Minister. 
There is clear evidence of  Mr Cavill  having sought an interview. There was no response to that request. At a later stage  Mr Cavill  notified the Minister of the situation in the Northern Territory. The Minister has sought to convey the impression that when he received a request for a meeting from SAATAS he agreed to the meeting posthaste. The fact is that the meeting was sought in the telex of 20 October, which I read to the Parliament. No response to that request for a meeting was received. Correspondence was received which went all around the Cape but which did not answer specifically the request for a discussion with the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Minister. In his speech the Minister referred to being advised on 30 March of the closure of SAATAS. The facts are that the telex was despatched to the Minister on 29 March. It reads as follows: 
I refer to my telex of 23 March 1978. 1 confirm that I have had no reply to that telex. 
The decision to run down SAATAS' Northern Territory operations for the reasons set out in my telexes was taken today and, accordingly, action has been taken. 
Once satisfied that SAATAS was out of the arena, once it was confirmed that the company was closing down, the Minister immediately telexed back, but that was five months after he received the request. I suppose that is not too bad by National Country Party standards. He responded in these terms: 
Refer to your decision conveyed to me by telex today. You must of course make your own commercial decisions on this matter, but if you believe it would be of assistance to you I would be happy to meet with you in Canberra. 
So that is the fact of the situation. The Minister ignored for five months the company's request for a meeting with the principals of the company. Once he received information that the company had closed down in the Northern Territory, he agreed to a meeting. He has since misrepresented that. On page 8 of his statement he refers to his letter to  Mr Cavill  of 13 April. Whilst that letter has been datestamped 13 April by the Department of Transport when it was sent off for his signature, it was received in Adelaide on 26 April- 13 days later. So again the Minister has been a little tardy. On page 10 of his prepared statement, the Minister referred to quotes for services by SAATAS and other airlines. He did not refer in this House on 13 April to quotes and he did not refer to bids. On page 1536 of  Hansard  he referred to tenders. He sought to inform the House that what had happened in the Northern Territory in the provision of these services was that tenders had been called and that SAATAS was an unsuccessful tenderer. The fact is that no tenders were called, but that quotes were invited from the various companies. I shall read the Minister's own words: 
I must tell the House that SAATAS was one of a number of tenderers for routes in the Northern Territory. It was beaten by other tenderers who had put in lower tenders for the various routes which became available when Connair Pty Ltd withdrew from agreat number of routes. 
He went on to say: 
If the commercial judgment of SAATAS cannot win the route by offering the lowest possible tender, I believe that there is nothing a Minister for Transport in this House can do about it. 
Again he deliberately misrepresented what had occurred. In fact, what took place was that a letter from the Department of Transport, Adelaide, was sent to SAATAS on 26 October in which it was stated: 
If you are interested in operating this service I would be pleased if you could advise: 1. Annual cost for operating a weekly service . . . 
Then are set out the various services. The company responded to that letter. A letter dated 21 December 1977 was received from the Department of Transport, Adelaide, over the signature of  Mr K.  L. Collett, which was in these terms: 
Thank you for your letter dated 4 November concerning the operation of regular air services out of Katherine and Alice Springs. 
Your proposal - 
It does not say 'tender '- together with those submitted by other operators, were carefully considered with Australia Post but regret to advise your offer was not accepted. 
Nowhere was the tendering process in operation. Then more than a month later, on 23 December, the company learnt that the Minister had not approved any allocation of the services for which quotes had been sought. In that case the company telexed the Minister in these terms: 
We understand tenders for operations have not been called but some informal method has been adopted of allocating and authorising operators for such routes. 
The company referred to the letter it had received on 21 November and pointed out that the legal advice available to it- I am not a lawyer; perhaps the Minister is- was that there was ah irregularity in the way that the matter was handled. The company requested that tenders be called so that all interested parties could have the opportunity of tendering on an equal footing and on a proper basis and policy. The Minister confirmed in his reply that tenders had not been called. He said: 
You are correct in your understanding that ministerial approval has not yet been given for these services.  (Extension of time granted).  I thank the House. On page 12 of his prepared statement, the Minister accused  Mr Cavill  of having sought a position of monopoly and unfair advantage over other operators in the Northern Territory. The documents show that SAATAS has consistently operated without subsidy and has sought to operate without cost to the taxpayer. On page 19 of his statement, the Minister refers to  Mr Cavill  's letter of 4 February 1976. The Minister quotes that letter in his speech. I am rather intrigued by the Minister's statement, because in it he makes a comment which is really a revelation to the Parliament. For some reason he seems to judge the behaviour of others by his own standards. What he seeks to imply is that if a person is not of the political complexion of the Government the Minister should not have to deal with him. To my mind that confirms that Connair was of the political complexion of the Government and therefore had to be looked after. The Minister is deciding the disbursement of public moneys on the basis of a very strange set of priorities and a very strange set of moral standards. We on this side of the House are concerned for the proper and responsible disbursement of public money. 
The Minister mentioned the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  The honourable member for Newcastle, when he was Minister for Transport, would not have fallen into this 'trap', so-called by the Minister. On 18 September 1974 the honourable member for Newcastle also wrote to  Mr Cavill.  This one extract from his letter dennes his attitude towards Connair: 
The former Minister said that it was a rort agreement. The Department which gave him his advice is the same Department which is advising the present Minister. Someone in that Department has done a really topsy turn exercise by informing the present Minister for Transport in a manner opposite to the way in which the previous Minister was advised. The Minister has complained that I have not made documents available to him. The truth is that he did not ask me. 
-The Minister did not ask me. I gave him the Press release without his asking for it. I have offered him the rest. 
-No, the Minister did not do so publicly. He did not ask me. What is at question is the Minister's credibility. Let us track back over the Minister's credibility. Firstly he said that he did not get a copy of the Press release; he had it all the time. 
Lack of credibility. In 1976, on the issue of airworthiness directives-  Hansard  records this- he told us that they were being issued and did not cease being issued.  Hansard  now records that for three months they were not issued. This reveals the Minister's complete untruthfulness. 
Then we have the matter of the retrospective payment of a subsidy to Connair. When this matter was raised in the Parliament he told me by way of answer the dates in April and June 1976 when the subsidy was granted retrospectively and he told me the Cabinet decisions.  Hansard  records his reply in response to a question on notice: 
The statement of the Department's explanatory notes presented to the Senate Estimates Committee was misleading and any inconvenience is sincerely regretted. 
We are getting too many misleading statements and too many errors for all of them to be the responsibility of the officers of the Department of Transport. Sixteen weeks after the change of Government in 1975 we had a retrospective decision to increase the subsidy. 
I turn now to the Omega affair last November, when the Minister quite brazenly and clearly stated that he had no knowledge of or participation in the purchase of land in his electorate. When examined, the files found that he had his finger in the pie several times. He wanted the local estate agent to have a go. He wanted local property to be looked at. Even now he is still related to the same company in which  Mr Smart,  of other renown, is involved. As I said earlier, the Minister stated on 13 April that the tender by SAATAS was too high. We have shown that he was incorrect. In this area the word of this senior member of this corrupt conservative Governmentthis Government which said that it would maintain Medibank and there would be jobs for all- means nothing. 
The keynote of the Minister's administration of transport has been secrecy. I shall come to the interdepartmental committee report very shortly. Let us look at the access by Connair to preferential treatment. On a number of occasions the Parliament has sought to have the IDC report on Northern Territory aerial services tabled in the Parliament. We have received one answer No.  Mr Connellan  was able to stand up in Darwin on 3 1 August last year and quote chapter and verse from the IDC report.  Mr Connellan,  quoting from the report of the IDC, was able to inform the gathering that the IDC specifically recommended no HS-748s, which this Government is in the process of helping him to purchase. The IDC recommended a reduction in subsidy; the Minister increased the subsidy. The IDC recommended that Connair be left to conduct its own affairs; the Government did not do that. 
-The Minister will not table the report from the IDC. I challenged him to table the IDC report, and he had an extract from it. Then  Mr Connellan  said: 
By the way, I was asked not to disclose the IDC proposal. 1 replied that it is my moral obligation to do so, to explain to staff and customers why we cannot continue to operate under this proposal. 
I go back to page 4 of  Mr Connellan  's speech, when he referred to the Minister. Poor old  Mr Cavill  talked to the Minister in February 1 976, but Connellan beat him to the punch; he was there in January.  Mr Connellan  said:  . . in January I informed the new Government that I would have to close the Company down of necessity, because our subsidy had been reduced to a level that was sending us broke very fast indeed. The new Government, the new Minister of Transport said: 
Well, hold it for a few months while we get things under control and we'll see what we can do- we've got to find a way of keeping you going. ' 
There is a relationship between Connair and the Minister. Connair had access to the Minister. It also had access to the IDC. SAATAS was refused an appearance before the IDC. So we go on through this close relationship and alliance between the Minister and members of the National Country Party and the board of Connair. The Minister criticised Cavill for his approach in February 1976 but he did not mention that Connellan had seen him during the previous month. We on this side of the House make no criticism of Connair. It has a business to run and is entitled to put its case to the Minister. I have visited the head office of Connair in Alice Springs. I have met Stephen Marshall and have discussed with him the problems which that airline faces in providing services. What is in question here is the manner in which this Government has carried out its responsibilities. 
I mentioned that the keynote is secrecy. Information available shows clear evidence of a direct, close and personal association between Connair and the Minister and a refusal and rebuttal of approaches made by the competitor airline SAATAS. SAATAS operates off its own bat as a private enterprise charter airline. Connair has operated in association with the National Country Party Minister for Transport to the tune of $9m over the recent years it has been in operation. The Minister in relation to this affair - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I thank the Minister and the House. I was saying that there is evidence of close, direct and personal association between the Minister and the company concerned. The last matter to which I refer is the fact that we have an open-ended subsidy arrangement under the terms of the agreement of 1965 which relates to the provision of a certain dividend target for the company. Looking at the 1976 report we find that out of the moneys on loan to Connair from the public purse $35,000 is on personal advance to  Mr Connellan  at call, at a 10.5 per cent interest rate, secured on livestock. It is no wonder that people in competitive organisations such as SAATAS get a bit upset when they find, on looking at the accounts, a public loan from the people to an airline; then from the airline, on a personal basis for personal use, to one of the proprietors. Here again, the indications are that the Government is aware of this. It would be aware from the reports which have come forward. This indicates the Government's close association with and endorsement of the activities of that airline. We believe that the only way by which we can assess properly what has gone on in the Northern Territory is for the IDC report to be tabled in full and for an inquiry into the administration of the subsidy and into the negotiations with respect to the new service which has been granted in the Northern Territory to be undertaken. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Before I put the question, the honourable member for Shortland mentioned early in his speech his wish to have certain documents incorporated in  Hansard.  I want to clarify the position. 
There were some documents,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I shall sort them out and, with the permission of the Minister for Transport, I shall pass them over. 
No. They got a little bit confused, to tell the truth. I said that I would seek leave to table all the documents from which I quoted. I now make that request. 
Leave granted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of travel and subsistence expenditure of his Department were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of5 October 1977 as question No. 1640 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of travel and subsistence expenditure of the Department of Administrative Services were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
) Did thus question first appear on the Notice Paper of5 October 1977 as question No. 1639 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of- (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 April 1 978: 
1 ) Have investigations been carried out into the circumstances of the fire which occurred in Qantas Drive, Mascot on 15 October 1977; if so, what was the nature of the investigations and their findings. 
What was the nature and extent of damage caused to specific installations of individual lessees within the airport and what has been the cost of repairs in each case. 
Who has borne the cost of the repairs. 
What circumstances enabled the fire to spread from outside the airport to installations within the airport. 
What action has been taken to prevent a repetition of the events that occurred. 
Who is responsible for (a) design and (b) provision of the drainage systems (i) inside and (ii) outside the airport. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey. 
-I second the motion,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  What is in question in this House is the opulent lifestyle of the Prime Minister - 
Motion ( by  Mr Fife  ) put: 
That the honourable member for Shortland be not further heard. 
I shall not use strong language, but accurate and precise language. Let me, after having listened to the plaintive pleading from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  simply draw to his attention a statement by his own Prime Minister in this House just two years ago. At page 1000 of  Hansard  of 25 March 1976 the Prime Minister said: 
On my own visits overseas, commercial aircraft will be used as far as possible. The argument that Qantas cannot provide adequate security for a Prime Minister is a specious argument and false. 
No more need be said of the case put by the Minister for Defence. 
Let me advert quickly to what has been done at the Lodge to show the priorities of the present Government. I remind the House that $250,000 has been spent on luxurious furnishings there. Who did that furnishing? Is it a fact that the furnishings for the Lodge were supplied by the firm of Mark Shane Interiors of Yass? Is it a fact that that firm is operated by a relative of the Prime Minister? Is it a fact that tenders were not called for the supply of those furnishings? 
The Prime Minister has said that we are lucky; that Australians live in a lucky country and take too much for granted. Some Australians, such as the Prime Minister, are lucky. What this Government is doing at the moment is indulging the peculiar idiosyncrasies of the Prime Minister, including his penchant for fast cars and luxurious aeroplanes. Only the day before yesterday we had the news that 1,100 workers at Chrysler are to be sacked. The Government turned its back on them, saying it was a commercial decision. It was said to be a case of rationalisation. Rationalisation means the same to me as the dirty fourletter word s-a-c-k. The Government has done nothing to provide for these men. It has shown no compassion, no concern for them. Yet it is willing to spend $40m for the luxury and personal extravagance of this Prime Minister. The nation is in the hands of a corrupt government. 
I propose to show why I say that. I understood from previous rulings by the Chair that I may say such things when I am referring to the Government as an entity, not to individual members of it. 
-I withdraw. 
-I withdraw it. The Government has little concern for proper public morality. Its first priority is to squander money and indulge the life style of the Prime Minister, who seeks to meander round the world like a 
Middle East oil magnate at the taxpayers' expense. Yet young Australians sleep in the streets of Melbourne because they cannot find work. The Government is not concerned. Sick and aged pensioners in hospitals are worrying about being turfed out because of the increased health service charges by this Government and because of the brawl between the Government and its supporters in the health insurance funds. Unfortunately, we are in the grip of a dishonest government, led by a power-hungry, fear-stricken Prime Minister. 
I withdraw. We are in the grip of a government lacking in honesty, with a Prime Minister who is fear-stricken, who has an obsessional fear for his personal safety. We in the Opposition want something done for the 500,000 Australians who are seeking work but are being denied the right to work and the right to make their own careers. Around this Government there is a smell of dishonesty. Let me quickly tabulate some of the charges: Minister charged with involvement in vote buying; Minister charged by his own colleagues with being involved in rigging electoral boundaries; Minister involved in murky land deals. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. I was developing the background to this insensitivity and lack of concern by the Government. I will refer quickly to the abuses of the VIP flight: The wine flight; the strawberry flight; Fraser's delight, the Opera House flight as the Sydney  Sun  described it; the Press conference flight for $3,000 for the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development to hold a Press conference; the trips to the tailor; and now the Government's refusal to provide any information at all on the cost of overseas travel by Ministers of this Government. A few moments ago we heard the Minister for Defence detailing some figures that sought to show that less had been spent on overseas travel by this Government than by the previous Labor Government. If that is the case, why is the Prime Minister refusing to provide any information whatsoever as to the details of travel overseas by Ministers and the cost of that travel? The  Australian  dealt with the subject clearly in March of this year when it said in relation to the VIP aircraft: 
Once used sparingly VIP planes have become something like ministerial taxis- an unacceptable situation, particularly at a time of dwindling oil supplies and the need to cut all unnecessary government expense. 
Dealing with a few more headlines, in the  SunPictorial in June  1977: 
It 's a corker for PM 's men. 
That was the charter flight to Belgium when they drank the plane out of champagne supplies within 40 minutes. In the  Australian Financial Review  on 1 6 June last year. 
Fraser Cabinet invades Washington. 
In the Melbourne  Age  in October last year. 
PM tops trips overseas. 
What is the Government up to in this exercise? Using the flimsy disguise of security, which I have already rebutted with the Prime Minister's own words, the Government is embarking upon a program to purchase not only two Boeing 727s but three Grumman Gulfstream luxury executive jets. Five aircraft in all are involved. That is the submission that went before the Government and the Government decided to support it. Where did the idea for the Gulfstream executive jets come from? I will go back to the Canadian trip in 1 976 and the Melbourne  Herald 
PM jets in, thanks to Pru. 
Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser flew into Montreal this afternoon aboard a luxury chartered executive jet owned by the Prudential Life Assurance Corporation. 
The ' man from Pru ' took four hours and forty-five minutes to fly non-stop from San Francisco aboard the sleek Grumman American Gulfstream II executive jet. 
There is the other side of the story. There is the balance of the $40m. What we want the Government to do is to put first the interests of people who are seeking work, people who are sick, pensioners who are worried about how they are going to be cared for in hospital. We want the Prime Minister and his coterie of Ministers to put up with the hardship, the little bit of difficulty, the little bit of added inconvenience, the little bit of added discomfort, for a while longer. We want them to give first priority to the people who are out of work in this country, to the small businessmen who are facing bankruptcy under this Administration. 
If $40m is available to purchase five new luxury aircraft, the first priority for that $40m should be to stimulate the economy, to provide job security, to get the shipyards back to work, to get the men at Chrysler back to work, and to secure our economy. There is no justification whatsoever, in the view of the Opposition, for proposing the expenditure of $40m on luxury executivetype jets. Two of the aircraft each seat 150 people and three are Gulfstream II sleek executive jets. The Government stands condemned before the people for putting forward such an extravagant proposal. There is no justification whatsoever for it in these times of enforced austerity, when life is not meant to be easy. If it is not meant to be easy, it is not meant to be easy for all, not for all except the Prime Minister. 
-In this debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1977-78 and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1977-78 we are discussing the appropriation of an additional $283.23m under Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and $82.22m under Appropriation Bill (No. 4) in addition to the amounts provided for services this financial year under Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1977-78 and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1977-78, which constituted the Budget. In the time available to me I want to deal with some specific expenditure proposals by the Department of Health, the Department of Defence, the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Transport. 
Far too little opportunity is provided in the Parliament to examine in detail the individual items of expenditure for which funds are sought from time to time. The useful paper presented with these Bills by the Department of Finance is the statement of expected under spendings, or savings, to use a euphemism, on Appropriation Acts Nos. (1) and (2) for 1977-78-the Budget. Page 24 of that publication shows an expected under expenditure of $5m under division 327.4 for hospital insurance organisations subsidy. That $5m under expenditure is one-third of a total of $ 15m. I understand from my colleague the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  the shadow Minister for Health, that this money is used to assist the health insurance funds in cases of hospitalisation which fall under the heading of chronicity. There is much public confusion and worry at present in relation to the coverage of long term aged hospital patients who are members of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of New South Wales. I bring to the attention of the Parliament the experience of a constituent who claims that at the time Medibank was being introduced he was assured by the Newcastle manageress of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of New South Wales, to quote from his correspondence to me, that:  as my mother was contributing to the Fund- at the highest scale- her level of accommodation would continue unchanged. 
After a series of correspondences he was advised by the Hospitals Contribution Fund of New South Wales on 12 May 1976 that the chronicity rule would apply from 31 December 1975; that is, from almost five months earlier, in respect of claims for his aged mother who was being cared for throughout in a private hospital. The Fund's decision was in effect retrospective and meant a considerable burden on the constituent concerned and his aged mother. I do not want to delay the House with all the detail of the subsequent representations- all to no avail- but I instance them as an example of the confusion and of how little store can be placed on undertakings given by representatives of, in this case, a health insurance organisation. The weight borne by that assurance of the officer of the organisation is something that will probably have to be tested in court. I should like the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  when he has an opportunity, to look at this matter and to examine the action taken by the Hospitals Contribution Fund of New South Wales to see what can be done to require the Fund to fulfil the undertaking given by the Newcastle manageress to my constituent. Therefore, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter I have received from my constituent,  Mr Hanes  on the matter. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 14 Kalinda  Parade. Whitebridge. N.S.W. 2290. 14th February, 1978. 

 Mr P. Morris, M.H.R. Commonwealth Parliament Office, 1 st Floor Cnr Ridley and Pearson Streets, Charlestown, N.S.W. 2290. 
Dear  Sir, 
Following your perusal of the file of correspondence in relation to a problem which exists with the Hospital Contribution Fund of Australia- as requested- I submit a condensed version of the problem. 
However I beg to stress the need for this condensed version to be read in conjunction with the file. 
My mother was hospitalised in Lingard Private Hospital on 1 5th Oct 1 973 and her accommodation was private room. She was a member of H.C.F. paying at the highest scale. Accounts submitted by Lingard Hospital were paid by H.C.F. in full. 
Prior to the introduction of Medibank in Oct 1975 I queried the local Fund Agent- on at least four occasions- re the continued hospitalisation of my mother- at the same level of accommodation and was assured 'as my mother was contributing to the Fund- at the highest scale- her level of accommodation would continue unchanged'. 
Because of confusion in the public mind re the introduction of Medibank I ascertained that H.C.F. had a local manager ( manageress ). 
I interviewed the local manageress who assured me that there would be no change in accommodation level of my mother- when Medibank was introduced. 
However late February-early March Lingard Hospital informed me that H.C.F. in their letter dated 26th Feb 1976 advised. 'Because the admission is in respect to a chronic condition there is no entitlement to the fund ancillary Private Hospital Table benefit on this claim. ' 
On being informed thus I immediately presented myself at the Newcastle Office of H.C.F. and requested interview with the manageress- which was granted. 
On showing her the letter from H.C.F. to Lingard Hospital I was advised that H.C.F. would not meet the account in full. 
Reminding the Manageress of her previous assurances her reply was-' I cannot remember everything I tell people '. 
On being informed thus I terminated the interview. 
On returning the letter to Lingard Hospital a discussion ensued which resulted in the Hospital dispatching a letter to H.C.F. Sydney Office. 
The Hospital had not received a reply by the 7th April. As the uncertainty of this situation was most unsatisfactory I presented myself at the H.C.F. in Sydney on this date and requested a interview with the Claims Manager. 
The Claims Manager was most helpful in discussion- but at no stage did he dispute the advice given me. He retained correspondence and the Contributors book which I was  holding advising me that the claim would be reassessed. He also requested that I instruct Lingard Hospital to despatchmarked for his attention- the current account, which would also be considered. 
H.C.F. advised in their letter of 27th April 1976 they had re-assessed the claim 1st October-31st December 1975 and made a further payment of $546.00 to Lingard Hospital. No mention was made of the account which they had requested that I instruct Lingard Hospital to despatch. They also advised that future hospitalisation would have to be assessed under the Chronicity Rule. 
My letter of 28th April 1976 thanked them for the action taken and requested clarification of the date of application of the Chronicity Rule. 
H.C.Fs. letter dated 12th May 1976 advised that the Chronicity Rule would apply from 3 1st December 1975. 
My letter to H.C.F. of 15th May 1976 stated in detail the facts surrounding this unsatisfactory situation and again stated the assurance given me that my mother's hospitalisation would continue- unchanged. 
Perhaps- at this point- reference to my letter to  Mr R.  Face, M.L.A. dated 3 1st May 1977 would clearly indicate. 
The evasive attitude, or reluctance of H.C.F. to discuss the crux of the problem- the advice given me by a responsible Officer of H.C.F. 
The failure of Ministers to recognise the problem. 
Referring back to H.C.Fs. letter of the 12th May 1976 they advised that the application of the Chronicity Rule would apply from 3 1st December 1975. 
However The Department of Health in their letter dated 10th Sept 1976 in part stated. 'To apply the rule the Commonwealth insists that the first claim in respect to the Chronic illness be paid at the full rate'. 
It is obvious that in the application of the rule they are remiss. However may I return to my original contention. 
1 sought and was given advice by a responsible officer of the fund. 
This advice later proved incorrect. 
1 contend that until the Fund corrected this incorrect advice the fund was responsible. 
Please would you make representation on my behalf in this matter. 
Yours faithfully, H.  HANES 
-I thank the House. I shall make the complete file available to the Minister for Health. I ask that he give consideration to the course of action followed by the health insurance fund to ensure that justice is accorded to  Mr Hanes  and to his aged mother. 
I turn now to division 233.1.01 of Appropriation Bill (No. 3), Administration and Other Expenditure, Travelling and subsistence. An amount of $3.622m is provided. Appropriation Bill No. 1 provided $32.63 5 m for this purpose. This amount, together with the $3.622m I have just mentioned provided by Appropriation Bill (No. 3) makes a total provision of $36.357m for travelling and subsistence by personnel of the Department of Defence and Defence Service personnel. Total travel funds for 1977-78 of $36. 357m represent an increase of 12 per cent or $3. 864m for expenditure under this subdivision over 1976-77. Expenditure under division 233.1.01 includes movement of defence staff and personnel within Australia by commercial transport services. I want to relate this 12 per cent increase in travel funds to almost $36.5m for the Department of Defence to the $ 1.705m being made available under division 504.01 to the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet for conveyance of the Governor-General, Ministers of State and others by the Royal Australian Air Force and Department of Transport aircraft. 
I noted that Appropriation Bill (No. 3) provides an extra $0.262m for this item making a total of $ 1.705m for the operational costs of the VIP fleet in 1977-78, which is an increase of 12 per cent over the figure for 1976-77. In other words, in this time of enforced austerity by this conservative Government, when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his ministry have succeeded in reducing the real wages of employees, there is to be a 12 per cent increase in funds made available for the personal pleasures of those who have access to the VIP fleet. Last week we saw the announcement by the Government that it is to purchase two Boeing 727 aircraft with a passenger capacity of 1 20 each as the first stage of a $40m program to re-equip the VIP aircraft fleet with the two Boeing 727s and three rather sleek, luxurious Grumman Gulfstream jets. 
I draw to the attention of the Parliament that the present market charter rate of 727- 100s is in the range to $3,500 an hour. That is the style of aircraft to be purchased for the VIP fleet. If one works backward from that charter rate of $3,500 an hour- the current rate- one can establish that the fixed cost of those aircraft, without taking into account wages, operation or anything else, is something to the tune of $30,000 a day. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  said yesterday: 'We are buying two because that is cheaper than buying one.' But the announcement, as far as the Opposition is concerned, is indicative of the Government's priorities. Here there can be no other reasonable explanation than that the purchase of these aircraft and the 12 per cent increase in funds provided in this year for operation of the VIP fleet are nothing but an indulgence for the Prime Minister. The main argument that has been advanced for their purchase has been that security and more overseas travel are involved. So, here we have a priority demonstrated by the plucking of funds from nowhere to be made available to purchase two Boeing 727s at the same time as we members of the national 
Parliament this week will probably each be interviewed by representatives of the pensioners' organisations seeking an improvement in conditions and entitlements for pensioners. It is rather a strange clash of events. On the one hand the Government can pluck $40m out of nowhere to buy large VIP luxurious aircraft for more overseas travel. On the other hand, we will be invaded by representatives of the pensioners' movement. I submit that the reason advanced by the Government- security- for the purchase of the aircraft is spurious. I would like to refer to the Prime Minister's own words in this chamber on 25 March 1976. At page 1000 of  Hansard he  is reported to have said: 
On my own visits overseas, commercial aircraft will be used as far as possible. The argument that Qantas cannot provide adequate security for a Prime Minister is a specious argument and false. 
In addition, I would like to refer to the report tabled last week by the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet relating to overseas travel by the Prime Minister 'Assessment of Aircraft Security Considerations'. On page 1 despite the Prime Minister's remarks this morning, I must attach substance to the report. The following appears: 
There are still some security risks, but in our judgment acceptable risks, involved in a Qantas charter aircraft specially chartered for the visit throughout and carrying no other cargo or passengers; 
It goes on to refer to the view that if you want to have the best you buy new aircraft. On page 2, in the second last paragraph, the following appears: 
This is an assessment based on security grounds. We have not taken into account considerations of cost . . . 
It goes on to say: . . . on formal visits the convenience of the government being visited if formal arrivals are involved, inspection of guards, bands and the like. 
We can all visualise the former member for Grayndler describing with great exhilaration the pomp and ceremony of the Prime Minister's arrival overseas in our own freebie No. 1, the new Boeing 727; the troops being paraded of the foreign country which the Prime Minister is visiting. I cannot do justice to it, as the former member for Grayndler could. The final recommendation reads as follows: 
In short, our recommendation is that on future overseas visits you travel only by RAAF aircraft or Qantas charter aircraft. In certain circumstances involving direct Qantas commercial flights, flying by commercially scheduled services may be acceptable as far as security of a Prime Minister is concerned. 
I again put to honourable members that the reasons advanced by the Government for the purchase of these two 120-passenger, luxurious long-range Boeing 727-100s are spurious. There is no urgency whatever. What we are seeing here is an indulgence of the Prime Minister's penchant for luxury aeroplanes at taxpayers' cost. Let me go on to instance just a few of the abuses in the last two years or so to which VIP aircraft have been put. I mentioned the other day the wine carriage flight, the strawberry flight, the search and collect mission for cleaning cloths a few weeks ago, the $3,000 Press conference dash by the then Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. He quite frankly said that he had to have a VIP aircraft, otherwise he could not have made the Sydney metropolitan evening television program. 
Then we had the title from the Sydney  Sun,  'Fraser's delight Opera House Flight'. I thought that was a beautiful catch line. We have seen the indulgence of Government members and the indulgence of the Prime Minister in the uses to which this fleet of expensive aircraft are put. This morning we heard the Prime Minister referring to the small numbers of people who went overseas. Let me quote again from John Shaw of the Sydney  Sun  of 26 May 1977, in referring to that safari of the Prime Minister and the entourage of 43 that was aboard with the Prime Minister. That is the entourage honourable members will recall, that managed to drink the British Trident charter aircraft dry in a 40-minute flight from Paris to Bonn. That was the capacity and quality of the members of that entourage of 43. The Prime Minister this morning quoted selectively in support of this proposed expenditure from the Adelaide  Advertiser.  Let me quote for the benefit of the national Parliament from this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald,  the editorial of which is entitled, 'Unconvincing Case '. It reads: 

 Mr Fraser claims that there are 'overwhelming' security reasons for the Federal Government's decision to buy two Boeing 727 aircraft for its VIP fleet. Really? There are reasons, certainly; but on the available evidence they are considerably less than overwhelming. 
That editorial goes on to say that it was the present Government, when in Opposition, that ridiculed  Mr Whitlam's  1974 proposal made at a time, and I emphasise this, when aircraft hijackings and bomb scares were more prevalent than they are now, to buy two 707s for the VIP fleet for security reasons. The  Mirror  of 8 May says: 
VIP JETS: IT'S PLANE HYPOCRISY 
Of all the transparent hog-wash being given to us at the moment the excuse that we need two VIP Boeing 727s on grounds of security is the hardest to swallow. 
The Sydney  Sun  of this evening titled its editorial, 'Flying Too High ' and added: 
In a dazzling display of financial acrobatics the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  says that the Government can fly two VIP 727 jets as cheaply as one. 
This is a trap for very young shoppers, and  Mr Killen  should know better. 
I do not want to delay the House, but as far as the Department of Defence is concerned it is true to say that sometime ago it indicated that there was a need for tanker aircraft. It is true also to say that consideration was given to the use of flexible tanker fitments inside those aircraft whereby they could have a dual role, the transportation of passengers and conversion to a tanker aircraft. But no reference to that has been made in regard to this proposal to buy Boeing 727- 100s; no mention has been made of the considerable conversion costs; no mention has been made of the costs and delays incurred in training the several crews that would be needed for each aircraft so that the Prime Minister could jet off to Bermuda, Jamaica or wherever his next overseas stop may be. Moreover, no reference whatsoever is made in the Estimates, either in Appropriation Bills No. 1 and No. 2, or No. 3 and No. 4 now before us, to the operating costs of two 727s and the three Grumman Gulf Stream executive jets that are to follow. For all of this, the reason put forward by the Government is security. 
I believe sincerely that we have a Prime Minister who has in him a confrontation streak; that he likes to create confrontation, and when one creates confrontation one generates a need for greater security forces. From that he derives some kind of satisfaction. That is not just my opinion. Let me refer honourable members to a report in the Melbourne  Age  of 6 April, page 1, concerning a visit by the Prime Minister to Monash  University  on the previous day. Chief Inspector Bryan Harding, the  deputy  head of the security operation at the University, offered quite stringent criticism of the behaviour of the Prime Minister on that occasion. Honourable members may read the article themselves, but I would like to quote these two short sentences:  'The Prime Minister created an unnecessary confrontationsomething easily avoidable, ' Inspector Harding said. 
We are left with the unhappy conclusion that he  (Mr Fraser)  sought confrontation. 
I think that that streak, that behaviour at Monash University, is also tied up with this sudden and urgent expenditure of $40m on the purchase of two Boeing 727 luxurious 120passenger aircraft. This is at the same time, as I said earlier- tomorrow and the next day- as honourable members will be explaining to pensionersthe Opposition will not have as much trouble as will Government supporters- why it is that a blitz is being conducted upon pensioners to ensure that no pensioner shall receive other income that may affect his or her entitlement to the given rate of pension. It may well be that somebody is getting a few dollars somewhere. It may be that someone is being overpaid 50c or $ 1 a week. I heard yesterday of a case involving a 52c a week overpayment of pension which is being recovered by the Department. It would be very difficult for Government supporters to extol on the one hand the virtues of this urgent program to spend $40m of the taxpayers' money on the purchase of a new, luxury international VIP fleet and, on the other hand, to justify to the more than one million pensioners of this country the proposal that the means test that governs the award of fringe benefits cannot be updated. We all know that the means test governing the entitlement of pensioners to fringe benefits has remained frozen for almost nine years. As recently as a few weeks ago the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said that many successive conservative governments- the Labor Government could not get co-operation from the Australian Medical Association on this issuehave not seen fit to provide the additional funding that is required to enable not the easing of the means test on fringe benefits but simply the updating of the means test to take account of the decreases in the value of money since 1969. So there we have it. Day by day and week by week pensioners are being denied an entitlement to fringe benefits, which is a rather severe penalty for those pensioners who would receive local government rate rebates if they held a pensioner medical card. On the one hand we have to explain to the pensioners of Australia why the means test cannot be eased or updated and on the other we have to explain to them the value of updating the VIP fleet. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
1 ) What vessels carrying refugees arrived in Australia with passengers and crew who did not have visas during 1977 and 1978. 
On what date did each vessel arrive. 
What was the port of departure and what were the pons of call of these vessels on their voyages to Australia. 
How many passengers and crew did each vessel have, and what were their nationalities. 
How many passengers and crew in each case are still in Australia and what is their status. 
What has it cost the Government to provide medical treatment and transport for them. 
What is the ownership, location and condition of each of the vessels. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, 5 April 1978: 
1 ) What was the nature of the relaxation of airworthiness requirements in the distribution of aircraft parts referred to in paragraph 4, page 49, of his Department's 1976/77 Annual Report. 
Which organisations sought the relaxation mentioned in Part (1) 
What were 
the part designations and 
the brand names of the bogus aircraft and helicopter parts mentioned in the same paragraph. 
Were attempts made to distribute these bogus aircraft and helicopter parts in Australia; if so, what action did he take in respect of this matter. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Which individuals and organisations have placed submissions with the Aviation Industry Review Committee. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied him on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Defence, relates to the Minister's responsibility for the VIP fleet and the Government's decision to embark on a $40m program to equip the fleet with new aircraft, commencing with the purchase of two Boeing 727 120-passenger aircraft. I ask the Minister: What is the precise nature of the modifications to be made to the aircraft, where are the modifications expected to be carried out, what is the estimated cost of the modifications proposed for each of the aircraft and will the total cost of the modifications be cheaper because two aircraft are to be modified rather than one? 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware that the Australian Wool Corporation proposes to ship substantial quantities of wool to Tacoma in the United States at rates considerably below the prevailing conference freight rates? I ask the Minister: Did the Australian Wool Corporation consult the Minister on its proposals? Has the Minister sought an assessment of the effects of the Corporation's actions on the Northbound Conference shipping services in view of the expectation that the wool shipped to Tacoma will later be on-forwarded to Asian and Japanese destinations? Is the Minister able to say whether such on-forwarding will in any way affect the operations of the Australian Northbound Conference services on which the Australian beef and dairy industries are so dependent for their exports? Can the Minister give an assurance that the transport arrangements for Australian beef and dairy exports to the United States will not be disadvantaged in any way as a result of these Australian Wool Corporation shipping proposals? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
Has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
Has he travelled outside Australia by aeroplane or ship since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) By what means did he travel from Mt Isa to Mornington Island recently in the company of the Deputy Prime Minister. 
What was the purpose of the trip. 
What were the costs of travel, and by whom will they be paid. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of travel and subsistence expenditure of the Attorney-General's Department were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1 976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of5 October 1977 as Question No. 1657 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Did he tell me in answer to question No. 1748  (Hansard,  23 February 1977, page 406) that several studies involving the estimation of transport costs were underway, and at that stage he was unable to say whether any of the studies would result in formal reports and be tabled. 
If so, what is the nature of these studies. 
Can he now say whether any of these studies have resulted, or will result in formal reports and be tabled. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
Has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
Has he travelled outside Australia by aeroplane or a ship since 1 1 November 1-975. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 3 May 1 978: 
Has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1 975. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 3 May 1 978: 
Has he travelled outside Australia by aeroplane or ship since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
What are the names and designations of all those persons (a) who comprised the party that departed Australia to accompany him on his trip abroad, during the period 26 May 1977 to 28 June 1977 and (b) who accompanied him on (i) flight QF 5 Melbourne/Singapore on 26 May 1977 and (ii) QF 4 Honolulu/Sydney on 27 and 28 June 1977. 
-This debate on Supply Bills (Nos 1 and 2) 1978-79 provides an opportunity for the Parliament to make some examination of the magnitude of the funds being provided by way of interim appropriations for the period 1 July 1978 to 30 November 1978 and of the quality of services provided by the Government to the community in the current financial year. The amount of $3, 844.03 9m being sought in Supply Bill (No. 1) 1978-79 is some 9 per cent greater than that appropriated in Supply Act (No. 1 ) 1977-78. Supply Bill (No. 2) 1978-79 seeks an interim appropriation of $592.41 8m. The total appropriations proposed by both Bills amount to $4,436.457m, which represents an increase of 4 per cent over the similar duo of Supply Acts of 1977-78. As the Treasurer and Acting Minister for Finance  (Mr Howard)  pointed out in his second reading speech, the funds provided in the Bills before us will be subsumed by the appropriations in the Budget when it is passed later this year. 
The Minister emphasised in his second reading speech that the amounts provided in these Bills should not be interpreted as anticipating in any way the amounts that might be included for any particular service in the 1978-79 Budget. It is fair to say, however, that the moneys being provided in Supply Bill (No. 1) and Supply Bill (No. 2) can in many circumstances give a guide to what the general provision for an item may be and of the Government's intended priorities for 1978-79. Having made those general remarks, I want to deal specifically with the provisions of the Department of Transport and the quality of some of the aviation services for which the Department of Transport has responsibility. For that purpose, I have prepared a table setting out the total funds made available to the main divisions of the Department of Transport in the year just concluding. I have related that to the extension of the amounts provided for those similar divisions and sub-divisions in Supply Bill (No. 1 ) now before us. 
These figures show that in division 6SS.1, which deals with salaries and overtime for the Department, there is an increase of $6.634m or 4.6 per cent. The table shows that in division 655.2, which deals with administrative services, there will be a decreased expenditure in cash terms for the year 1978-79 of 0.22 per cent or $126,000. In division 655.3 which deals with other services- I will come to this later- there will be a decrease in expenditure of $ 1.696m or 5.5 per cent in cash terms. Obviously the reduced expenditure is substantially more in real terms. Overall, it would appear in the Supply Bill (No. 1 )- I emphasise that it is possible to make some sort of extension in relation to Supply Bill (No. 1) into the year 1978-79-that there is an increase in the cash amount of $4.8 12m which represents a 2.1 per cent increase on the cash expenditure for last year. 
Despite the second reading speech comment of the Acting Minister for Finance that the provisions of the Supply Bills are not to be interpreted as anticipated commitments for 1978-79, 1 want to emphasise that the amounts being appropriated in Supply Bill (No. 1 ) are, in fact, a reasonable guide to the Government's financial priorities for the coming year. Let us look in detail at the composition of division 655. Sub-division 1 of that division comprises salaries, allowances and overtime. I have pointed out that this provision on a projected 1978-79 basis represents an increase of 4.6 per cent in cash terms but a decided reduction in real terms. This reflects a continuation of the staff ceilings imposed by the Government and a corresponding deterioration in the quality of services provided by the Department of Transport. I will return to deal with the quality of those services and the risks involved a little later. The provision for sub-division 2, administrative services, on an annual basis shows a reduction of 0.22 per cent in cash terms and hence a substantial reduction when expressed in real terms. 
I point out for the interest of honourable members that sub-division 2 includes expenditure on travel and subsistence which is important in the servicing of navigational aids and critical safety items such as the provision of fire services at airports; marine maintenance- materials and services; aerodromes and buildings maintenancematerials and services; airways facilities maintenance- materials and services; air transport movable plant maintenance- materials and services; and, finally, meteorological services. The financial provision for sub-division 3 entitled 'other services ' on an annual basis shows the largest reduction of all, that is, 5.5 per cent in cash terms and a severe reduction in real terms, depending upon the inflation rate forecast chosen for 1978-79. This sub-division, amongst other items, includes expenditure for railway fares and freight concessions, a subsidy for Tasmanian Railway passenger services, a contribution to the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme, the air services subsidy, development and maintenance under the aerodrome local ownership plan and, finally, road safety promotion and research. Thus it is clear that the amount of funds being appropriated to the Department of Transport in Supply Bill (No. 1 ) means that the Department will face an almost impossible task in the provision of proper safety services in 1978-79. 
This Department has a heavy responsibility to protect the well-being of air travellers by ensuring the maintenance of air safety facilities both on the ground and in the air. However, the Department and its officers can fulfil their tasks only within the limits set by the priority accorded funds for those tasks by this Government and directions given by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  The Minister, in my view, has made hollow claims of his concern for the maintenance of proper and responsible standards of air safety. He is trading and this Government is trading on the past good safety record of the aviation industry in Australia. I have drawn the attention of the 
Parliament on a number of occasions to deficiencies in air safety matters and to the Minister's false claims on the subject. Responsible people throughout the aviation industry are seriously concerned about the deterioration in air safety services that has occurred since 1975. Those people include both operators and trade union leaders in the industry. I say quite firmly that I share their considered concern for the low financial priority accorded air safety services by this Government and the hazards that flow from that low priority. 
I remind the Parliament of some of the air safety events that have occurred and relate the response to them by the Minister for Transport. In 1976 he misled the House by claiming that there had been no interruption to the monthly issue of the important airworthiness directive advices. Evidence given later to a Senate committee showed that they had not been issued for some months. Last year he dismissed as a unique accident' the tragic and near disastrous fire in Qantas Drive at Mascot, which could have resulted in a holocaust inside the airport because of a faulty drainage system. More recently I asked him in this chamber, on 1 1 April 1978, a question in relation to the staffing of the Melbourne flight service centre. I asked: 
Has his attention been drawn to departmental advice which describes conditions as being in an 'operationally hazardous situation' which could have serious consequences for the Department and the officers involved should an accident occur as a result of an error on the job or should a road accident occur involving officers proceeding to or from work? 
I went on to say at the end of that question that a recent departmental study also snowed that a further 1 1 flight service officers should have been appointed to that unit at Tullamarine. I asked the Minister for an assurance that proper standards would be maintained at that centre. The Minister replied, in part, as follows: 
If the allegations made by the honourable member are correct, they are quite serious. I shall view them as being serious and take the appropriate action. 
The appropriate action, to the best of the knowledge of the Parliament, has been nil. To this date I have received no response from the Minister, either verbal or written. The usual practice when questions are raised in this Parliament in that way is for the Minister to reply in writing as soon as he has the information available. I repeat that I have had no response from the Minister to date, and I interpret that as being evidence of the hollowness of the claim of interest and concern by the Minister. On 14 April the  Australian  newspaper reported a statement by the manager of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. The article carried the heading: 'Air Safety Breakdown! Pilots blame cost cuts for danger'. In that article the Federation was reported as claiming that cost cutting and staff shortages were dangerously eroding air safety standards. The manager of the Federation went on to list items involved and the locations where this was happening. He said, in part: 
We used to ask what was necessary for safety and budget accordingly. The Department of Transport now is told what funds are available and has to tailor its spending accordingly. 
The article in the  Australian  newspaper went on to state: 
Experience had shown that aircraft accidents were generally caused not by one factor but by an accumulation of carelessness and neglect. 
The Minister responded to that serious statement by a major union in the industry in his usual inimitable way, namely, by denying the claims of the Federation and accusing its manager,  Mr Coysh,  of casting aspersions on fellow members of the Federation and air traffic control personnel. Yet the Minister would have been aware that the latest official figures of his Department show that there is expected to be a shortage of 67 air traffic controllers by the end of this year, given a continuation of normal wastage rates and current training programs. Currently there has been a rapid increase in overtime worked by air traffic controllers. But there is a set limit to the overtime that can be worked, and the only alternative when overtime cannot be worked or when staff is not available is to close down certain positions at major centres at night. At the same time the Department has begun purchasing commercial standard valves for radar replacement equipment in place of the previous military standard valves. The prices are lower but the failure rate is more frequent. 
On 26 April 1978 the Professional Radio Employees Institute issued a statement supporting the claims made by the AFAP on 13 April which the Minister had sought to refute. The PREI release- its members service the navigational aids- stated, in part: 
Recurring lack of travel funds is often restricting maintenance. 
The departmental minute of 13 April, five days before the Minister attacked the pilots, stated: 
Owing to funds shortages for freight and financial restrictions for materials, authorised store holdings will be replenished on a limited basis. Replenishment will be made for essential requirements only per media of form 282 raised by the requesting station. 

 Mr McGrane, the Federal Secretary of the PREI, was reported in the Sydney  Sun  of 3 May 1 978 as saying that the claims of the AFAP were backed by his organisation. He said that the Minister's claim that cost cutting is not endangering Australian air safety was false. 
I turn now to rescue fire fighting services at airports and their deficiencies. The Department is in the process of reclassifying airports which merit fire protection services under a new formula based on passenger traffic rather than aircraft movements as used by the International Civil Aviation Organisation. The union concerned has asked whether the Department has advised the airlines of its inability to meet ICAO standards in rescue fire fighting at the majority of airports which it staffs with rescue fire fighting services. I would be interested, and I am sure the Parliament would be interested, to learn the answer received from the Department. Then we have the fiasco of the ten rapid intervention fire fighting appliances which were purchased some 12 months ago at a cost of several hundred thousand dollars, but which have not been able to be used yet because, of all things, their engines overheat. 
-The engines get too hot yet they are fire fighting appliances. I believe that the Minister should cease acting as the Prime Minister's fireman, or Fraser 's fireman, for want of a term. He should cease rushing around trying to settle brush-fire disputes in government ranks, such as that involving the resignation of the former Treasurer, the present Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  and the feud with the Queensland Government over the Aurukun and Mornington Island Aboriginal reserves. He should concentrate on his heavy responsibilities in relation to transport. It may be that the Prime Minister has appointed him Special Minister for Political Negotiations' in Australia. 
I have outlined the concern for air safety expressed by those involved in its provision. To that must be added the concern by senior operators in the aviation industry at the heavy loss of key aviation personnel from the Department since the Minister assumed office. Are we to believe that the unions and the industry operators are all dishonest people and that the Minister alone is telling the truth? The matter is too serious to be left to that kind of judgment. The views expressed by the industry employees were backed by the Department in its submission a few weeks ago, to a Senate Estimates Committee when seeking additional funds in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) for essential services. In respect of item 655. 1.02, which was concerned with salaries and overtime, as I mentioned earlier, the Department, in its submission to the Parliament, to the Senate, had this to say: 
While all rostered overtime is being restricted to an absolute minimum, heavy commitments are still being incurred in emergency duty overtime due to staff shortages, sickness and the increasing incidence of special jet aircraft movements at non-capital city airports . . . 
Furthermore, the maintenance of communication and navigational aid equipment and major installation works are behind schedule because of the unavailability of overtime funds. 
In respect of item 655.2.01, travelling and subsistence, the Department referred to 'essential operational travel commitments required to maintain standards of aviation and marine services to a minimum safe acceptable level'. The Department referred to those commitments as its reason for the requirement of $265,000 additional to the amount which was provided by the Budget. In respect of funding for air transport moveable plant and maintenance- this includes items I have already mentioned, such as the repair and maintenance of departmental aircraft and associated radio equipment, vehicles, aerodrome plant, fire and crash vehicles, including ambulances- the Department said this: 
The prolonged effect of limited funds resources has effectively depleted stocks of maintenance spares for departmental vehicles and plant and of necessity has ensured a minimal maintenance program being carried out during that period. 
The Department concluded by saying: 
Every endeavour has been made to restrict utilisation, and consequently maintenance commitments of aircraft, vehicles and plant to a minimum, but there are certain responsibilities that require the operation of this equipment if services are to remain both functional and safe. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave of the House- I did obtain it from the Minister who was here earlier- to have incorporated in  Hansard  those three extracts from the Department's submission to the Senate Estimates Committee and the table to which I referred earlier. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

Department of Transport 
-I thank the Minister and I thank the House. To this must be added the effect of this loss of just over 1,000 personnel from the 
Civil Aviation Division of the Department of Transport since December 1975. I shall read from a departmental letter which was written a few weeks ago, and which is over the signature of L. E. Power, for the First Assistant Secretary, Airways Operations. The letter refers to the collection of passenger statistics at airports and the difficulty involved in that process. It puts forward a reason for the difficulty in getting those statistics. 
In order to conserve the effort involved in this and considering that the particular pan of the Department involved has, in the process of the move to Canberra, lost a big proportion of its staff, the most limited number of airports necessary to make appropriate judgments was examined. 
In other words, the Department picked out some airports and developed statistics on them. The Department did not have enough people in the relevant section anyway to carry out the study properly, so it said: 'Please accept what we are giving you'. I am trying to reinforce what has been said by the aviation industry operators and by the unions involved. When staff numbers and funds are reduced, accordingly the quality of service and the standard of safety are reduced. I sincerely believe that the standard of safety has deteriorated. I have formed that judgment in the light of the information provided to me by all the people in the industry with whom I have talked over the past two years. 
The next step is to close certain airports. From time to time we have heard in this House Dorothy Dix questions about the operations of Devonport and Wynyard airports in Tasmania and about which airport will close. Again I quote from the same letter. It states: 
The forecasts used in the plan - 
This is the activity plan and the forecast development plan for the Department- 
Adopt a slightly lower growth rate for Devonport than Wynyard but from the higher 1970 figure, hence, despite the current situation, the 1982 figures for Devonport indicate a slightly higher level of activity. 
Then comes the punch line: 
As indicated at our recent meeting the relative position of these two airports in 1982 -  just on four years a way-  is a matter of some uncertainty, as is the fact that they will achieve a growth rate or, as at present, continue to decline. 
Irrespective of the statements that have been made by the Minister and irrespective of the politicking and the claims made by the members of this chamber who represent Tasmania, all of whom are absent, the fact is that the Department is considering the closure of either Wynyard or 
Devonport. I have quoted from an official departmental document, a letter to one of the parties concerned. 
-I will explain that to the honourable member later. He is welcome to look at the letter. The Opposition puts the view to the Parliament and to the nation that the stringency of Government policy which is hurting the people who can least afford to cope is also causing the standards of aviation safety and aviation services to suffer. Here, we are trading dollars for danger. It is as simple as that. 
Aviation services have a wonderful record in this country. The record is linked to our favourable climate. We should not endanger the standards of safety under the pretext of saving money in order to purchase two Boeing 727s at a cost of $40m for the lavish travel overseas by our international tourist Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I support the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition, because I believe it properly reflects the attitude of this Government to the community. The Government has failed to provide a stimulus to the economy. It is concerned only with benefiting those who support it. Its thesis is simply this: To those who have, more should be given; from those who have not, more should be taken. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Department's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on: 
overseas and 
domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of5 October 1977 as question No. 1635 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1 978: 
1 ) What is the nature of anti-hijack procedures followed by (a) domestic airlines and (b) international airlines at Australian airports. 
What is the legislative authority under which airline operators are required to carry out anti-hijack procedures. 
Will he detail the specific provisions of the relevant legislative authority. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
What sums has his Department paid to Connair Pty Ltd or its predecessor, Connellan Airways Pty Ltd, in each year since 1962. 
For what reasons were the amounts paid in each of these years. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1 978: 
What procedures are currently in force at Australian airports for security checks of freight and luggage, other than hand luggage, on (a) domestic and (b) international airlines. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1 978: 
Were the results of studies of major casualty road accidents in the Adelaide urban area, as mentioned on page 2 of his Department's 1976-77 annual report, published; if not, will he undertake to do so. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  National Times  of 12-18 December 1977, in which it was reported that he had advised the Minister for Transport that Vietnamese refugees would be sent back; if so, is there any substance in the report; if so, when and by what means did he provide that advice. 
) What was the precise content of the advice. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) What was the means of travel for all members of his party for each section of his journey abroad during the period 26 May 1977 to 28 June 197. 
What was the name of the carrier whose services were utilised in each section. 
What was the cost of (a) travel and (b) accommodation for all members of the party for each section of travel undertaken. 
What was the total cost of (a) travel and (b) accommodation for all members of the party from the date of departure from Australia to the date of return to Australia. 
Have all accounts in respect of the journey abroad been paid. 
Where in the Budget Papers are the expenses refered to in Parts ( 1 ) to (5 ) shown. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1 978: 
What sums has his  Department paid to  Connair  Pty  Ltd or its predecessor, Connellan Airways Pty Ltd, in each year since 1962. 
For what reasons were the amounts paid in each of these years. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
1 ) Has the Public Service Board completed its consideration of the staffing structure of the Office of Road Safety as mentioned on page 14 of his Department's 1976-77 annual report. 
If so (a) was his Department's proposal for the structure of the Office adopted by the Public Service Board, (b) what is the staffing structure of the Office, (c) what is the title of each of the functional areas of the Office, and (d) what is the name and classification of the most senior officer of each of the Office 's functional areas. 
What is the name and classification of the officer within his Department to whom the Director of the Office reports. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 25 May, 1 978: 
1 ) Has he travelled outside Australia by ship since 1 1 November 1975. 
Has he travelled outside Australia by aeroplane since 11 November 1975. 
With your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  I ask that when you have a reply from the Executive you circularise members of this House and of the other place with the range of options which are available to you and to the Presiding Officer in the other place so that honourable members may have an opportunity to express what options they feel would be most satisfactory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question on notice on 3 May 1 978: 
Has the Minister travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question on notice on 3 May 1978: 
Has the Minister travelled outside Australia by aeroplane or ship since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister for the Capital 
Territory, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
Has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1 975. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 3 May 1 978: 
Has he travelled outside Australia by aeroplane or ship since 1 1 November since 1975. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
When has he travelled overseas by aeroplane since 1 1 November 1975 (Question No. 1020,  Hansard,  11 May 1978, page 2320). 
asked the Prime Mimster, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions have aircraft been chartered for use by the Prime Minister within Australia since 1 1 November 1975. 
What type of aircraft was used on each occasion. 
What was the total cost of chartering aircraft for use by the Prime Minister since 1 1 November 1975. 
What was the passenger capacity, cruising speed and maximum speed of each type of aircraft used. 
What was the unit chaner rate for each type of aircraft used. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 6 October 1977 as question No. 1686 and remain unanswered at the close of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
1 ) What was the expenditure on works associated with Proserpine Airport, Queensland, in each of the last three financial years. 
) What was the nature of these works. 
What funds have been provided in the 1977-78 Budget for works associated with Proserpine Airport. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1 978: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  National Times  of 12-18 December 1977 in which he was reported to have said at Darwin that boatloads of Vietnamese refugees would be sent back; if so, is there any substance in the report. 
Was the statement he is reported to have made based on advice provided to him by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs; if so, when and by what means did he receive the advice and what was the precise content of the advice. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1 978: 
Has the establishment of an Australian Transport Literature Information System by the Bureau of Transport Economics, as mentioned on page 23 of his Department's annual report, been completed. 
If so, can he outline what services are provided by ATLIS. 
If ATLIS has not been established, when does he expect that it will be. 
-I ask the Acting Prime Minister: When and in what manner did he first become aware that the Leader of the Government in the Senate had telephoned the Chief Electoral officer,  Mr Pearson,  in relation  to  the naming of electorates in Queensland? 
-by leave-In addition to thanking my colleagues on the Standing Committee on Road Safety for their cooperation and courtesy during the conduct of the inquiry into motorcycle and bicycle safety, I thank the staff of the Committee for the very good work it has done, for its dedication during the long hours of work that were involved, particularly in the preparation of the draft and final reports. I want briefly to take up the point raised by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  in relation to politics in road safety. I am very sorry to have to tell him, but politics are a part of road safety. Both major political parties have in their policies on transport a reference to road safety. Each party has a specific policy on road safety, so it is rather naive to expect that politics will not enter into road safety or into the priorities of the government in office. I reinforce the point made by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  that this Government gives priority to a $40m program to reequip the VIP fleet. 
I refer to the annual report of the independent Road Safety and Standards Authority which was abolished by this Government in 1976. On page 4 the report dealt with the repeal of the Road Safety and Standards Authority Act and stated: 
As part of its drive to achieve savings in administrative costs, the Government decided to incorporate the Authority into the Department of Transport and its officers were therefore transferred back to departmental strength on 27 May 1976. 
In the Budget Papers for the current year there is almost no evidence of a saving of any magnitude following the abolition of the independent authority on road safety. That fact has to be taken into account in considering the report of the Committee. On the last page of the report which was tabled today- it is rather coincidental that it was tabled today- the letter from the AuditorGeneral certifying the accounts of the Authority states that the accounts for the period from 1 July 1 975 to 9 June 1 976 were submitted for report on 11 April 1978, almost two years after the abolition of the Authority. Two years after that body was dismantled it is now very late to be looking at the results of its operations. 
I now refer to the point made by the honourable member for Franklin about publicity. I do not know whether he is aware of it but one of the reasons for the lack of publicity about road safety is that some 12 months ago an officer of the Department who is not a member of the Australian Journalists Association, although doing the work of a journalist, was appointed to a position in the public relations section of the Office of Road Safety, as it is now called. As I understand the position as it was about 10 days ago, the AJA has placed a ban on information distributed by the Office of Road Safety because of the Government's failure to appoint a member of the AJA to that public relations position. I do not want to play politics but I reinforce the remarks of the honourable member for Franklin. Road safety is too important for information to be banned or held back from the community. I ask the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to look at the position and try to provide an effective remedy. 
In the evidence taken by the Committee leading to the preparation of the report which has now been tabled, the Committee heard of the high incidence of alcohol in road accidents, particularly in accidents involving young people, and in this respect I want to go outside the area of road safety and reinforce the remarks of another  speaker  and air my own very strong feelings about the related matter of alcohol. I support much of what the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  said in respect of alcohol. I am not a wowser and I do not deny the right of other people to consume alcohol, but if they want to consume alcohol they have a responsibility to the community and to other road users to consume it in a manner, and to make their way home or to wherever they are going in a manner that does not endanger other members of the community. In recent months there has been a rather insidious new element creeping into this alcohol problem. I refer to advertisements for alcohol. I will not name the breweries but honourable members will know the breweries involved. There have been frequent television advertisements promoting the sale of alcohol in which organised youth recreational activity is associated with the consumption of alcohol. 
-It is very improper. It is quite dangerous to the community and to me it is immoral. It brings into direct conflict the problems which face Australian youth. On the one hand they are induced to consume alcohol, apparently on the assumption that recreation activity for youth and alcohol go hand in hand. On the other side of the equation is the high incidence of death amongst young Australians. If the community is to accept public revenue from the sale of alcohol and if the private sector is to obtain revenue from the sale and advertising of alcohol, then we all have a responsibility not to endanger the lives of young people by promoting their consumption of alcohol. Eighty per cent of single vehicle road crashes involve alcohol as a major contributing factor and there is a disproportionate number of young people involved in serious injury or death as a result of the consumption of alcohol. So I say on behalf of the young people of Australia to those who market the product, please do not try to promote the belief that success in organised sport and success in life are dependent upon or are in any way associated with the consumption of alcohol. The consumption of alcohol is certainly not a measure of achievement in this country despite the fact that many people would have us believe that it is. 
The last matter that I want to mention relates to the recommendations of the Committee. As the honourable member for Newcastle mentioned earlier, there is little evidence that the recommendations contained in the Committee's two previous reports have been followed through. I welcome the statement made recently in this chamber by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the Government has undertaken to require a Minister within six months of a report being tabled in this Parliament to deliver an address to the Parliament on what action has been taken by his Department in relation to those recommendations. It is pointless wasting the money of the public, the time of honourable members and committee staff, and the time of the people who present submissions on a voluntary basis, if the Government is not prepared to pick up the recommendations of committees. This Government's move as outlined in that statement is to be welcomed and I support it. I hope that the recommendations of this Committee in respect of motorcycle and bicycle safety will receive the full support of the Minister for Transport. 
asked the Minister of Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
Has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister of Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
Has he travelled outside Australia by aeroplane or ship since 1 1 November 1975. 
Does the Acting Prime Minister recall the stringent criticisms made by the members of this Government when in opposition of the acceptance of gifts by the Prime Minister and Ministers and their families, and the precise procedures set by the present Government to be followed in respect of such gifts? Why have the guidelines and procedures set by his Government for the valuation and surrender or purchase of gifts been discarded? Why is his Government now refusing to disclose, as promised, the number, value and location of gifts received by Ministers and their families? Finally, where is the gold bracelet received as a gift for launching the  Australian Progress  and what is its value? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
1 ) What is the estimated usage of avgas in Australia for each of the years 1977-78 to 1984-85. 
What are the present sources of supply of avgas. 
What is the expected source and availability of supplies of avgas in each of the years 1977-78 to 1984-85. 
Is he able to say what is the present price of avgas and the projected price of avgas in each of the years 1977-78 to 1984-85. 
-The Bill before the House is for the establishment of a Maritime College at Launceston. It is the final stages of a project which was first announced on 3 December 1974 by the Australian Labor Government. On 10 June 1975 Prime Minister Whitlam announced that the College would be located in Launceston. Later that year the Labor Government introduced a Bill designed to give effect to that decision and for the establishment of an interim council for the College. That Bill lapsed on 1 1 November 1975. In 1976 new legislation to establish an interim council for the College was passed and received royal assent on 1 1 June 1976. In announcing the decision in 1974, the then Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  noted that the decision was in accord with the principal findings of the Commission of Inquiry into the Maritime Industry. The Commission set up in 1974 concluded among other things that: 
There should be a central maritime college, set up as part of a college of advanced education. 
The Commission went on to state that the college should be located 'close to a major centre of population with shipping and fishing operations'. The Bill is welcomed by the Opposition; it is a long overdue measure. The decision to locate the College near the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education and near the city of Launceston with a broad harbour and closeness to the sea carries through the Commission's expressed wishes. The report went on to state: 
. present training is not going far enough within the type of courses that are provided, is not giving a full range of types of courses, nor does it equip those who take the courses with a standard of education that has a general application. 
The report continued: 
Moreover, it is doubtful that the present standard will continue to attract the type of men whose knowledge allows them to adjust without great effort to changes in the type of shipping and cargo handling that are developing. 
Clearly, the Commission saw the College as the means for overcoming these limitations and gaps which exist in the present system of maritime education. The main purpose of the College's courses will be to train deck, engine and radio officers to Department of Transport standards for the Australian merchant fleet. It is also expected that the College will provide for higher educational studies to a degree course level, this being one of the reasons for locating the College near the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. The site provides College students with the opportunity to carry on theoretical study, while at the same time allowing a fair degree of practical work. 
Until now Australia has been without one tertiary institution to provide such training. This has been at a time when there has been a dramatic change in the operations, technology and nature of goods carried. Like nearly every industry, the shipping industry is becoming more technical and is placing heavier emphasis on the use of specialists. In general shipping alone, accelerated technical change has meant that tramp and cargo liners of years ago have been replaced with ships designed to carry cargo in vehicular, containers and barge loads. Cellular container vessels, Ro/Ro- roll-on, roll-off- and lash carriers- lighter-aboard-ship or barge- now carry Australia 's cargo trade which was once carried in ships with sails. 
These developments have only emphasised and added to the need for improved maritime education. Other countries have been actively pursuing maritime education for a number of years already. There are at present some 20 nautical colleges currently operating in the United Kingdom offering courses for deck officers and cadets. California has had a maritime college since 1929. The college is situated on a 67 acre site on San Francisco Harbour and offers courses leading to a bachelor of science degree in nautical science or marine engineering. The New York nautical school dates back to 1874. These are in addition to some five United States Naval Service Academies. There are also some five nautical colleges operating in France. 
Yet it is worth while noting that the benefits of mariners with such an education will extend to all Australian shipping- costal, international, and fishing. The Bill before the House provides the College with a permanent Council. It also represents a step towards bringing the College together in one building and in one city. Courses have already been held in Melbourne and Sydney. The College building is expected to be completed by 1979, so that it can commence admitting students for the 1 980 academic year. It is hoped that the College's Principal, Captain D. W. Walters and key staff will be located on the College site at Newnham by the end of the year. The significance of the College to Australia 's maritime industry is clearly shown by the number of applicants for the position of principal. When the position was advertised, some 100 applications were received. More recently advertisements appeared in our local newspapers for senior positions at the College including business manager, assistant academic registrar, librarian and buildings officer. 
The Bill, as the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  pointed out, will allow for the appointment of senior academic staff to proceed. Some staff, I notice, are being sought from all over the world. It is envisaged ultimately that the College's courses will range from three-year degree and diploma courses to two-year associated diploma and certificate of technology courses. The degree courses will provide basic training for those wishing to move to senior positions in the maritime industry, covering the academic qualifications needed for certificates of competency, including training in subjects, such as commerce and management, not covered by certificates of competency. Short courses which I understand are to be offered will cover areas such as tanker safety, survival, specialised hazardous cargoes, fire-fighting, ship-handling, pollution control, management and fishing technology. They will range from a few days in length to a few months. 
I am also encouraged to see that the College will offer short refersher courses for mariners already on current service in the shipping and fishing industries, and in the marine and port authorities, to allow them to keep pace with modern technological advances. The College will allow us to train our mariners at home and will check the situation as pointed out in the maritime industry report where some 30 per cent of our merchant marine crews and some 50 per cent of the officers are trained overseas. The development of an Australian Maritime College coincides with an increasing number of spillages of oil at sea and an increasing need for additional expertise in the handling of such occurences. I want to emphasise that the decision to establish the Australian Maritime College was taken by the Whitlam Labor Government. However, it is pleasing to see that there is a bipartisan attitude to the establishment of the College. 
In speaking to the Bill, it is important to give consideration to the number of Australians presently employed on Australian ships, the opportunities presently available for the training of entrants to the industry and the state of the Australian shipping industry. As at the 30 June 1977 there were 3,795 sea-going berths available. If we add to this number, those seamen who would have been on recreation leave, sick leave, standby or roster at that date, the direct workforce is something in excess of 8,000. Analysis of the 3,795 sea-going berths shows that they comprise: 133 masters; 340 certificated deck officers; 407 certificated engineer officers; 270 uncertified engineer officers, which includes electricians, et cetera. To this must be added deck crew including 1,206 able seamen, apprentices and deck boys, 392 engine room ratings, that is, greasers, donkeymen and others, 685 catering department staff of stewards, cooks and, surprisingly, one stewardess, and finally 362 miscellaneous staff comprising crew attendants or .........:-- , radio officers and shipwrights. The grand total is 3,795. 
As I said earlier, these sea-going berths attract a total direct workforce of something in excess of 8,000. Criticism is often made of industrial action by sea-going unions to secure a greater participation by Australian manned ships in our export and import trades. Much of the criticism is based on misinformation and given that Australia is an island continent distant from most of its major markets and suppliers the criticism is short sighted and against the national interest in terms of long term economic security and defence needs. The reasons for the unionists' actions are quite clear. They recognise the advantages to our balance of payments if greater utilisation can be made of Australian vessels with a consequent reduction in outgoings on invisibles such as freight and insurances. They also see declining employment opportunities for their members resulting from the world wide trend to larger, more sophisticated and automated ships needing smaller crews. In the decade 1964-1973 the number of Australian ships fell by 23 per cent. However, gross tonnage rose by 9 per cent and deadweight tonnage rose by 1 1 per cent. At the same time there is little opportunity for new personnel to enter the shipping industry despite the fact that in the same 10 years there has been an increase of 15 per cent in the numbers employed due mainly to improved leave conditions since 1 964. 
The Australian National Line told the Summers inquiry that the ratio of applications to annual deck cadet positions available was 10:1. The other four companies who employ deck cadets seem to be able to fill their vacancies easily from casual inquiries. The inquiry found also that 10 out of 12 of each year's cadet intake represent the ANL's cadets. The 1977 annual report of ANL shows that of its total seagoing personnel of 2,081 only 100 comprised apprentice deck or engineer officers spread over all periods of training, that is, less than 5 per cent. 
It is appropriate briefly to note the method of entry of other seafaring personnel. Marine engineers come from two general sources, that is, trade based or cadetship. However, because of the present requirement for workshop experience it is not possible for engine room ratings to progress to marine engineer positions. Electricians are recruited from a trade based background, namely, electrical fitters and likewise shipwrights must have first served their time in their trade. In respect of radio officers 90 per cent are not employed by the shipping companies but by Amalgamated Wireless A'asia Ltd which provides radio officers and supply and service radio equipment under contract. There are limited training courses available to those wishing to number in the remaining 10 per cent of radio officers. 
Recruitment of deck and engine room ratings is normally at the deck boy and engine room junior levels. There are few opportunities and boys are selected after interview by a panel comprising representatives of the Department of Transport, the shipowners and the Seamens Union. For cooks, the Navigation Act requires that before a seaman can be rated as a cook, other than an assistant cook, he must have reached a prescribed age and had certain experience, including sea service. Surprisingly there is no requirement for cooks on Australian ships to hold formal qualifications or are there any specialist marine training courses for ships ' cooks in Australia. Finally, the criteria for employment of stewards are that the applicants must have had previous experience as a steward or in similar work or have an apparent aptitude for the work. As with cooks there are no formal training courses in Australia for stewards. Some years ago the Government recognised the oversupply of labour to the shipping industry thus entry is tightly controlled by the Chief Mercantile Officer of the Department of Transport through the General Register of Seamen. 
In my remarks I have not mentioned the entry of overseas seamen to the Australian Register despite the fact that a large proportion of personnel, particularly officers- as I mentioned earlier, 50 per cent- have been drawn from overseas. I have dealt only with the entry and training of Australians because the function of the Australian Maritime College will be to train Australian seafarers. I am concerned however, at the number of seamen the Minister in another place has indicated to be the total expected enrolment at the College. Recently, he has forecast 500 trainees and obviously this is based on exclusion of any entrants to the industry from overseas. This can be seen from paragraph 2.3.1. on page 68 of the Summers report. If the Minister's forecast that in excess of $25m will be expended on the establishment of the College- this figure includes simulators and associated equipmentAustralia will need to expand its shipping industry on a sequential basis. That certainly is not the policy of this conservative Government. 
As a nation we need to examine our shipping industry and identify those areas in which with properly selected vessels we can be competitive. The Australian National Line has shown on the Australia-Japan liner trade that our ships operating at Conference rates and Australian standards can be quite profitable. Responsible comparisons of shipping costs are extremely difficult to make because of the paucity of accurate information made available by shipping companies. The 
Government's opposition to greater use of Australian ships is based on distorted claims in respect of crewing and accommodation costs and old fashioned ideology.  Mr N.  K. Aggawal of the Department of Transport at a seminar in Sydney last year analysed the annual costs of operating a 72,000 hypothetical dead weight tonnage bulk carrier on long term charter operating between Australia and Japan as follows: Debt service charges, 60.0 per cent; insurance, 5.4 per cent; manning costs, 17.0 per cent; repairs, maintenance and administration, 1 1 .4 per cent; and overhead expenses, the balance of 6.2 per cent.  Mr Aggawal  said on that occasion: 
The major cost problem for the Australian shipping industry stems from the lack of institutionalised credit facilities developed by other shipping nations as indispensable to meeting the long term financial and investment needs of shipowners . . . 
By comparison ANL's 1977 annual report shows vessel manning as 16 per cent of total expenditure, a continuing decline from the 21.5 per cent of a few years ago. Crewing costs then are an important factor in total shipping costs, but a minor one. I am confident that the manning scales could be further reduced by negotiation if consensus could be developed between government, the unions and shipowners on an expanding role for Australian ships in our trades. 
We need to remember too that in Norway, because of the special facilities made available for the financing and purchase of ships, the shipping companies make their money not from the actual freighting of goods but from the profit on sale of the vessel at the end of a 10-year life term. We on this side of the House believe that more Australian ships with smaller crews will create more jobs for Australians than does the present stand-off attitude of the parties concerned. Last year I inspected the  AnN Australia  at Kobe and the  Selwyn Range  at Newcastle dockyard. Both ships were almost completed. I took the opportunity to compare their crewing accommodation with that of the 20-year-old  Lake Boga.  May I say that there was no comparison. If those who complain of the accommodation standards of new Australian ships took the trouble to have a look at the level of accommodation and realised that the main determinants in constructing a ship are the weight and the nature of cargo and the engine required to power that vessel they would find the accommodation to be placed on top of the superstructure, on top of the hull, is one of the minor factors to be taken into account. 
If those who complain of the accommodation standards in ships have a look at the quality of accommodation, they will see that, given that seamen spend half of their lives at sea, their ship becomes their home and that the current standards are comparable to those of an ordinary motel room in Canberra which I am sure honourable members opposite do not regard as luxurious, for three or four nights a week, claims of socalled luxury accommodation afforded seafarers are arrant nonsense. I suspect that the Minister questions my reasoning about structure and determinants in the nature of designing a vessel. I will repeat them for him. The important point to determine first is what one wants to carry and the distance over which one wants to carry it. That then determines the volume and capacity of the vessel. Then one has to select an engine to power the vessel. They are the main determinants. Accommodation is a much lesser factor in the construction of the vessel. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, from the Summers inquiry report it is obvious that training facilities for Australian seagoing personnel are inadequate and outdated with restricted opportunity for entry to the shipping industry and with little or no emphasis on management and commercial skills. In fact the Principal of the College, Captain D. W. Waters, pointed out last year that the principles on which much of the present certificates of competency are based were derived from the British Navigation Act of 1850 and its 1854 consolidation. He said: 
Our present system is thus based on principles established in the mid-nineteenth century, and this explains why our training curriculum is more narrowly structured and examination orientated, than those of many other maritime countries. 
Hopefully this will be remedied by the updated courses to be provided by the College and by the amendments to the Australian Navigation Act in respect of competency certificates and qualifications now under consideration by the Department of Transport. 
The establishment of the Australian Maritime College at Launceston will be a new and important industry for Tasmania and a major facility to improve the efficiency and saftey of the Australian shipping industry. It represents the fulfilment of an undertaking given by the then Minister for Transport in 1974 and Prime Minister Whitlam in 1975. As I said earlier, it also represents the bipartisan attitude in this place and, as I detected, in another place towards the project. I emphasise again that to achieve utilisation the College must be linked to an expanding and increasingly efficient Australian shipping industry. The Opposition wishes the College success in its operation and a speedy passage to the Bill. 
-My remarks this evening relate to the question I asked of the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  yesterday in relation to the acceptance of gifts by Ministers of the Government and the abandonment of the guidelines on this matter. I refer honourable members to pages 3150 and 3151 of yesterday's  Hansard.  At the conclusion of my question, I asked: 
Finally, where is the gold bracelet  recieved  as a gift for launching the  Australian Progress  and what is its value? 
The Acting Prime Minister replied that he did not know who launched the  Australian Progress.  He then asked who launched it. I replied: 
I think it was your wife. I am not sure. I will check. 
The Acting Prime Minister went on to infer that I was in some way demeaning the recipient of the gift. He said: 
It is clear that anything that comes to the honourable member's mind is good enough. It does not matter whose name he damages in the process. 
I did not use anybody's name; nor did I demean anybody's name or character. I asked the question following an answer I had just recieved from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I had asked the Prime Minister who was the recipient of a gold bracelet presented as a gift for launching the  Australian Progress.  I reject completely the inference of the Acting Prime Minister yesterday. He did not answer the question. As it turned out, when I had a chance to check I found that the recipient of the gift was the Prime Minister's wife. That did not concern me at the time I asked the question. 
I did not need to know. I was concerned only with the gift received by the person who launched the vessel. I did not want to mention the name of the person involved. I did not do so. I reject completely the inference of the Acting Prime Minister. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that this Government, when in Opposition, waged a virtual crusade against the acceptance by Ministers of gifts, their location, their disposal and their value and the cost of overseas travel by Ministers of the then Government. From the answers given to me by the Prime Minister it is clear that there has been a complete abandonment of the Prime Minsiter's own guidelines. It is not good enough for the Prime Minister to say in reply to a question that  Mr Whitlam  said something in November 1975. The fact is that the guidelines for the acceptance, valuation and disposal of gifts recieved by the Prime Minister, Ministers of the Government and their families in association with their duties were laid down in March 1976. It is useless to pretend that the guidelines have any value, any impact, are in any way open to scrutiny if the recipient, the location, the value and the method of disposal of gifts are not available for public examination. 
In addition the Prime Minister replied to a question I had asked of him with regard to the advisability of acceptance of free travel by Ministers. In his answer to question No. 426, the Prime Minster stated: 
It is expected, however, that Ministers not accept for themselves or their families, offers of free overseas travel from commercial sources, whether the commercial activities involved are connected directly with Ministers' responsibilities or not. 
That was a direct repudiation of the statement issued by the office of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in January of this year. At least the Prime Minister has been clear and forthright. We on this side of the House reject completely the abandonment of the guidelines and we call on the Government to adhere to its own guidelines on the receipt and disposal of gifts. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
1 ) Did he state in answer to question No. 753  (Hansard,  24 May 1977, page 1790) that the recipient of a gold bracelet as a gift for launching the  Australian Progress  on 6 April 1977 would be given the opportunity to purchase the bracelet if the valuation was greater than $ 100. 
Has the valuation of the gift been completed; if so, (a ) was the value of the gift greater than $ 100 and (b) did the recipient take the opportunity to purchase the gift. 
3 ) What is the present location of the gift. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice on 23 May 1978: 
1 ) How many gifts have he, his wife, his Ministers and their wives received in carrying out Government business since 1 1 November 1975. 
How many gifts (a) have been valued, (b) had a value in excess of $ 100 and (c) have been paid for by the recipient in accordance with the guidelines he announced in March 1976. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1 978: 
1 ) Did he state in answer to question No. 284  (Hansard,  2 1 April 1977, page 1 184) that he envisaged discussions of the report of the committee of inquiry into the 4 Australian transport undertakings with the chairmen of those business undertakings would be completed in the near future. 
If so, have these discussions been completed and what were the results of the discussions. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) Do the guidelines governing the acceptance of gifts by a Minister and his family apply to acceptance of offers of overseas travel by the Minister's family from persons or organisations whose day to day commercial activities fall within the ministerial responsibilities of the Minister concerned. 
If so, what is the course of action to be followed by the Minister concerned in these circumstances. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 May 1 978: 
1 ) Did he travel in a Ferrari Boxer motor car mentioned in a report in the Melbourne  Sun-News Pictorial  of 9 September 1 977, in which it was alleged that the vehicle was test driven at speeds up to 180 km/h on roads only a few minutes from Parliament House. 
If so, (a) did he have an opportunity to drive the car and what was the maximum speed it attained under his control, (b) who also drove the car during the journey reported, (c) what was the maximum speed at which the car was driven and by whom, and (d) what was the purpose of his travel in the car. 
Has his attention been drawn to the maximum speed limit in the Australian Capital Territory of 80 km/h. 
Was special dispensation sought and granted for the vehicle to travel at speeds in excess of 80 km/h. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an item in the  Canberra Times  of 13 January 1978, in which a spokesman for his office is reported as having said that there were plenty of precedents of Ministers' wives accepting free travel when they had been invited to launch a ship. 
) If there is any substance in the report, will he detail the many precedents referred to by his spokesman. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) What amounts of his Depanment's travel and subsistence expenditure were spent on (a) overseas and (b) domestic travel during 1976-77. 
What percentage of total expenditure on travel and subsistence did each of these amounts represent. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 as question No. 1659 and remain unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
Is he able to say which of his Ministers ' staff ha ve received offers of free foreign travel since 11 November 1975 and which of the offers were accepted. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Did he tell me in answer to Question No. 273  (Hansard,  3 May 1977, page 1501) that a number of cases involving alleged breaches of Air Navigation Regulation 106a were being investigated by his Department in close association with the Commonwealth Police; if so, 
have these investigations been completed 
have any individuals or organisations been charged with breaches of Air Navigation Regulation 106  a 
what was the nature of these breaches, and 
what has been the result of his Department's action in each case. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) What circumstances enabled Qantas to transport Government Ministers within Australia since 1 1 November 1975. 
Which other persons are entitled to travel on internal flights with Qantas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) Who has been the Australian Government's representative on the board of Connair Pty Ltd or its predecessor as provided in clause 23 of the Subsidy Agreement of 17 August 1966. 
On what occasions, and for what reasons, has the Australian Government exercised its powers under clause 27 of the Subsidy Agreement with Connair Pty Ltd since 17 August 1966. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 3 May, 1978: 
1 ) Further to the answer to Question No. 606  (Hanard,  5 April 1978, page 1081) given by the Minister for Transport, what additional information is he able to provide in respect of the 1 1 unexplained aircraft movements reported to the Marine Operations Centre since August, 1977. 
In what region of Australia was each of the reported aircraft movements. 
What was the type of aircraft involved in each sighting. 
What was the general course being followed in each sighting. 
Is the nation of registration known in each case. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
What information is he able to supply on the costs of amihijack procedures and facilities utilised by airlines in Australia and in particular, the cost borne by (a) Ansett Airlines, (b) Trans Australia Airlines, (c) international airlines, and (d ) the Australian Government in the year 1 976-77. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 3 May 1 978: 
1 ) What sums has his Department paid to Connair Pty Ltd or its predecessor, Connellan Airways Pty Ltd, in each year since 1962. 
For what reasons were the amounts paid in each of these years. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
Has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
Has he travelled outside Australia by aeroplane or ship since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
What are the procedures to be followed in capital city ports for selection of marine stewards who are not covered by the Maritime Industries Sea-going Award 1977 when the requirement is notified (a) prior to the usual pick-up time and (b) after the usual pick-up time. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
1 ) Has the Public Service Board completed its consideraton of the study carried out by officers of his Department, the Bureau of Transport Economics, and the Public Service Board which was submitted to it on 30 June 1977, as mentioned on page 22 of his Department's 1976-77 annual report. 
If so,  (a) what is the  staffing structure of the new Bureau of Transport Economics, (b) what is the title of each of the functional areas of the Bureau, (c) what is the name and classification of the most senior officer of each of the Bureau's functional areas and (d) what is the name and classification of the officer within his Department to whom the Director of the Bureau reports. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 1 May 1978 concerning an interdepartmental committee report on freight rates; if so, is there any substance in the report. 
What departments were represented on the committee. 
What is the classification of each officer who served on the committee. 
Which Department's representative chaired the meetings of the committee. 
As the article quotes extensively from the committee's report, will he undertake to table the report; if not, will he table the recommendations of the report. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
1 ) Did he state in answer to question No. 273  (Hansard,  3 May 1 977, page 1 50 1 ) that a number of cases involving alleged breaches of Air Navigation Regulation I06A were being investigated by his Department in close association with the Commonwealth Police. 
) If so, have these investigations been completed. 
Have any individuals or organisations been charged with breaches of Air Navigation Regulation 106A and what was the nature of these breaches. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
Did he state in answer to Question No. 1701  (Hansard,  15 February 1977, page 86) that the Aviation Industry Review Committee had made a number of recommendations and that these were being carefully examined. 
2 ) If so, ( a ) has the examination been completed, and ( b ) what action does he propose to take as a result of these recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
Did he state in answer to Question No. 1748  (Hansard,  23 February 1977, page 406) that several studies involving the estimation of transport costs were under way currently but at that stage he was unable to say whether these studies would result in formal reports and be tabled. 
) Can he now say whether any of these studies will result in formal reports; if so, what topics are covered by the studies. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
1 ) Did his predecessor say in answer to Question No. 1240  (Hansard,  3 December 1976, page 3282) that amendments to the Motor Traffic Ordinance to require the fitting of seat belts in vehicles manufactured prior to 1 974 were being considered. 
Has consideration of these amendments been completed; if so, what action has he taken to implement the amendments. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 23 May 1 978: 
1 ) Did his predecessor say in answer to question No. 1240  (Hansard,  3 December 1976, page 3282) that a review of seat belt legislation as it applies to the Australian Capital Territory had been initiated. 
Has the review been completed; if so, (a) what are the results of the review and (b) what amendments are proposed for the ACT seat belt legislation. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
1 ) Did his predecessor say in answer to question No. 1241  (Hansard,  4 November 1976, page 2426) that consideration was at that stage being given to introducing restrictions on the sale of unapproved child restraints and to the feasibility of legislation requiring the wearing of approved restraints. 
Has consideration into introducing restrictions and the feasibility of legislation been completed. 
If so, can he now say when he will take action to implement the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety to ensure that (a) the Australian Capital Territory legislates to ban the sale and fitting of unapproved child restraints and (b) legislation is enacted to require the wearing of restraints by children in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has the Minister travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1975. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied the Minister on each occasion. 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of the Minister and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas. 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey overseas. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions and for what purposes has he travelled overseas since 1 1 November 1 975; 
) What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied him on each occasion; 
What was the cost of (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) other expenditure, and what was the total cost incurred in respect of himself and each person who travelled with him on each journey overseas; 
Which airlines and/or other means of transport were utilised during each journey. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to activities being organised in eastern Australia, in association with the 250th anniversary of the birth of Captain James Cook, and the reenactment of his voyage along Australia 's east coast. 
What financial contribution is the Government making towards these activities. 
Is he able to say what international activities are being arranged in association with the 250th anniversary of Captain James Cook's birth. 
Has practical assistance been sought from the Australian Government by the organisers of the 250th anniversary celebration; if so, what has been the Government's response. 
Will he arrange for a statement to be prepared and distributed about the celebrations. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the active role being played by members of Redhead Surf Life Saving Club in the re-enactment of the voyage of Captain James Cook in 1 770, northward along Australia 's east coast. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
Further to his answer to question No. 1018  (Hansard,  23 May 1978, page 2356) when has he travelled outside Australia since 1 1 November 1975 by (a) aeroplane and (b) ship. 
asked the Minister for Health upon notice on 26 May 1978: 
What was the total sum paid to individual aircraft operators for matters related to the provision of health services in the Northern Territory during each year since 1 962. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
When and where did he travel outside Australia by (a) aircraft and (b) yacht in the period since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 June 1 978: 
1 ) Did he state in answer to question No. 202  (Hansard,  14 March 1978, page 728) that seven 1st class seats were purchased on flight QF 4 Honolulu/Sydney on 27 and 28 June 1977. 
Did he also state in answer to question No. 8 1 1  (Hansard,  23 May 1978, page 2365) that he was accompanied by eight persons when he travelled on flight QF 4 Honolulu/Sydney on 27 and 28 June 1977. 
Were two additional passengers carried free of charge by Qantas; if not, who was responsible for the payment of the fares. 
-The Opposition welcomes the statement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on this critical subject of air safety because it provides an opportunity for the House to discuss the matter. I am sorry that the Minister reverted in his statement to his usual style of using abuse and invective rather than recognising the very real concern shared by responsible people across the spectrum of the aviation industry, including officers of his Department, about the increasing risk that is developing in aviation, particularly in general aviation. It is interesting to note that the Minister, in his 13 page statement, devoted some few paragraphs to general aviation. He chose instead to attempt to smear as sensation makers and irresponsible anyone in this country who draws attention to the shortcomings of his administration of the Department of Transport. I have been reluctant for a long time to raise this subject, just as he has been reluctant. I have listened to people and talked to people for almost a year now and, having listened to those people and having seen certain things, and taking into account the positions of the people to whom I have spoken over that last year, I am convinced from those discussions, with employees, executives, unionists, operators and departmental personnel, that there are grounds for concern. As I said, I am sorry that the Minister does not share that concern. All I can say to him is that he should come down from his ivory tower, get out amongst the people involved in the industry and talk to the operators and officers of his Department to whom he is not talking, whom he has denigrated and insulted and to whom he has had to apologise. The Minister stated in his telegram to these people: 
If your members read more into my statement than this intention I am sorry and you may assure them of my continuing high regard . . . 
Let us put aside this humbug about denigrating and insulting people, something which the Minister has accused other people in the community of doing. He alone has acquired the reputation of accusing his employees. He would do a lot more for air safety in this country if he had respect for his officers and started to show some concern for responsible officers other than those working in the top administration of his Department and who are communicating with him. I put that point to him in all sincerity, not as a political point. 
I stand by the statements I have made in the House and outside the House. With reference to the  Courier-Mail  article I was asked for my response to a statement made by a spokesman of the Minister's office. As the Minister said earlier, it could well be that the so-called spokesman in fact was not a spokesman. That has not been the case on other occasions since I have held this position. I acted in good faith in making my comments and I think they are still relevant. The newspapers no doubt will respond themselves. I have no doubt that the Acting Premier of Victoria a few weeks ago,  Mr Thompson,  who had much to say about this serious subject, will respond to the Minister's accusations of sensationalisation and denigration. The other persons whom the Minister has smeared are, in the main, his officers, some of whom he has had to apologise to since. 
Instead of recognising the problems, showing some concern and taking an approach, the Minister has savagely attacked the credibility of those people who have drawn attention to what is happening. He asks the Parliament and the people of Australia to accept that he alone is to be believed. He is the same Minister who said late last year that he had no knowledge of or participation in the activities of the Department of Administrative Services in the purchase of land required by his Department. He is the same Minister who was forced to admit a few days later that there was departmental evidence of his personal intervention. Last week a Minister in another place had to resign for a much less serious action. Does the Minister for Transport seriously expect anyone to believe what he is putting to the House? In fact, on that occasion last year he deliberately misled the House. He is a senior member of the Government. Regrettably, at the moment the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is suffering from a loss of memory. The Minister for Transport was also present with the Prime Minister at those discussions which led to the resignation of the other Minister. It would not surprise me if he also is suffering from a loss of memory. 
There has been a shortage of funds for air safety related services. I have raised this matter in Budget debates, Supply Bill debates, adjournment debates and by way of questioning on a number of occasions. I am grateful to the Minister for his statement. This is the first occasion on which he has given air safety funding such priority that he has been prepared to discuss it. On all previous occasions he has scorned comments made and information that has been incorporated in  Hansard  and has not bothered to reply to questions. The associated manpower shortages are quickly reflected when we realise that since 1975 the Department of Transport has lost 1,602 officers, including a number of key experienced aviation personnel. That is one of the concerns of the major domestic airlines. The Minister ignored that fact in his speech. The deliberate decisions on funding taken by the Government and in response to interdepartmental memoranda is evidence of the neglect- I have said this publicly- for air safety on the part of this Government. Let me again draw the Minister's attention to the Additional Estimates for 1977-78. Division 655.2.0 1 includes: essential operational travel commitments required to maintain standards of aviation and marine services to a minimum safe acceptable level. 
Extra money was needed for that item. In a document presented to the Parliament by the Minister's officers- the same Minister who is trying to convince the Parliament and the people that there has not been anything wrong and that there has not been a denial of funds- this appears in respect of Division 655. 1.02: 
Furthermore, the maintenance of communication and navigational aid equipment and major installation works are behind schedule because of the unavailability of overtime funds. 
So much for the Minister's claim about the additional funds that are being spent on those areas. Let me turn to Division 655.2. 12 which relates to air transport, movable plant maintenance. The explanatory notes state: 
The prolonged effect of limited funds resources has effectively depleted stocks of maintenance spares for departmental vehicles and plant and of necessity has ensured a minimal maintenance program being carried out during that period. This crisis maintenance policy implementation has now reached the stage where essential equipment is becoming increasingly non-operational and to rectify this position in the short term, additional funds of $100,000 are considered to be absolutely essential. 
So it goes on. That document was drawn up early this year and presented to the Parliament in May of this year- a matter of weeks ago. A meeting chaired by  Mr Schofield  was then held with  Mr Powell  and other representatives of the aviation unions to discuss matters relating to air safety. The overall theme of the meeting was that safety in Australia no longer was of interest to the Department of Transport and that in the future overall Budget criteria will determine all facets of the airline industry. A report of the unions involved in this instance mentions that  Mr Powell  and the  Chairman  emphasised that 'cost was the most paramount concern of the Department and that all other factors must be subjugated to overall cost restraint'. Once again we have the spokesman of the Department chairing a meeting of the interested and responsible officers of the Department and putting to them that safety was a secondary consideration and that budgetary considerations would come first. It is not good enough for the Minister simply to come in to this chamber and try to convince the Parliament and the people that he had put forward safety first as a primary area of interest. 
I turn to the minute earlier this year from  Mr Smith,  the Airport Director of Melbourne Airport, which I raised by way of a question with the Minister on 11 April of this year. On that occasion I referred the Minister to the contents of this minute, which pointed out that according to a departmental survey there was a shortage of 1 1 flight service officers at Tullamarine. The Minister said that he would investigate the report. I have heard no more about it. I have since raised the matter in Parliament and I think it has been referred to in the Press, but there has been no report to this Parliament. There has not been the courtesy of a reply by way of a written answer to a member of Parliament following a verbal question in the Parliament. There has been nothing whatsoever. However, the same Minister would have us believe that everything in the garden is rosy. These are his own records, not the Opposition's records. They are not sensationalist newspaper records. They are his own departmental records. 
I turn to the situation in the South AustralianNorthern Territory area to show what was happening as far back as February and March of last year. I shall quote from a minute from  Mr K.  M. Barclay, the Acting Director of the South Australian-Northern Territory region, dated 31 March 1977. The minute states: 
The severe curtailment of maintenance at remote and unattended sites due to lack of travel funds has produced a predictable result. TV ASIS- 
Which is a form of glide control for incoming aircraft- and runway lighting systems have deteriorated in performance. Communication and associated equipment has failed, navigation aids have failed or are operating only on standby and mechanical plant has failed. The integrity of a number of navigation aids is in doubt. 
That was the situation over a year ago. Since the preparation of that minute we have had the presentation of the Budget of last year and the Additional Estimates of earlier this year. Now we have a fresh Budget. On the second day of this Budget session the Minister is again saying that adequate funding is always and has always been provided. That is not true and it never was true. 
I turn now to the subject of fire appliances. The Minister- I thought very cleverly- quoted the expenditure of $30,000 by the Labor Government on fire appliances. The Minister well realises that there is a long lead in time in respect of fire appliances. There has to be the determination of specifications, the calling of tenders and the assessment of prototypes before there is finally construction and delivery. To quote the second year of office of the Labor Government as a year representative of Labor priorities for fire appliance expenditure is absurd. 
The Minister knows that the bulk of the fire appliances at airports in Australia are of the vintage of the late 1950s and the early 1960s. These appliances were planned for and purchased by a government of which the Minister was a member. Throughout that period he was a Minister and, for a number of years, the responsible Minister. So enough with the cooking of the books and records and the gobbledygook we have heard and enough with the juggling of the figures in relation to fire appliances and capital expenditure. I have not had time since the statement became available to me to check through and make adjustments for movements in the consumer price index so that I can make comparisons of the expenditure over the range of years mentioned by the Minister, but there is no doubt in my mind that when I do so the results on a government to government basis will show that since 1975, which is when the expenditure in those areas was reaching a peak, the expenditure in real terms has declined. 
It is not good enough for the Minister to whack out a quick Press release yesterday and claim there has been an increase in expenditure, particularly when on examination one finds that the so-called increase in proposed expenditure this year is in fact a carryover of under expenditure for the year just concluded. The figures do not substantiate the claim that the Minister has attempted to make. When we look at recurrent expenditure in these areas we will find again that in real terms the case that the Minister has put will not stand examination. 
I refer now to the air safety record in Australia. At no stage have I made comment about or criticism of the major airlines, nor have I reflected upon our safety record. I think that all Australians are proud of this record and that, irrespective of what government is in office, everyone would hope that the record will improve. But this is not an excuse for reducing expenditure priorities in the Budget in respect of the air safety areas, nor is it justification for resting on our laurels and saying: 'Things have improved in the past year and we ought to be happy with that'. 
The fact is that the record could have been better. 
I move from that to a major area of concern which the Minister just skirted around, namely, general aviation and in that context I shall talk about private pilots and private aircraft. No matter what aircraft hits a large aircraft the large aircraft will crash. If there is an incident between a small aircraft and a large aircraft the result will be the same. It is not good enough to talk about the statistics in respect of major passenger airliners as distinct from general aviation. When two of these objects come together the result is the same. I would like the Minister and his officers- I say this in all seriousness- to get out among the industry and talk to responsible people, even to some officers of the Department who have now retired and who used to carry out the same functions as the officers who are now reporting to the Minister on these matters. They know very well that in the areas of examination and inspection of maintenance standards and the carrying out of aircraft maintenance there are discrepancies and that the regulations are bent.  (Extension of time granted).  They know, as the Minister will learn, that there are shortages in critical areas. 
Let me cite the establishment for examiners. Central office is one below its establishment for air surveyors and two below its establishment for air examiners. The NSW region is down three, Victoria down three and the South AustraliaNorthern Territory region is down two. In most of those places the establishment is around double figures. So we are looking at a level of 25 per cent to 30 per cent below the establishment. I return to the result of that situation. In the general aviation field, particularly in relation to private aircraft as distinct from commercial light aircraft, there is a lack of supervision of aircraft maintenance. I again particularise for the benefit of the Minister. I ask the Minister to have some examination made in respect of a comparison of fuel records with hours flown. When he talks to people in the industry I ask him specifically to mention this subject and find out what is happening. 
I ask him also to give consideration to the fact that there are now 193 flying schools in Australia and that flying school proprietors themselves have told me not privately but among their peers that because there is a surplus of flying schools any flying school instructor who is tough on standards will not do as much business as other flying schools. We know the result and the effect of this situation. At the same time the odds of getting caught in respect of maintenance standards are lower because there are not sufficient officers to go round and check these areas. I put to the Minister, leaving aside the politics of this matter, that one incident resulting from that will convert our wonderful safety record into a catastrophic safety record. That is of concern to the people of Australia. I am not talking about the sensationalising or the headlines.  Sir Reginald  Ansett made a similar comment about the situation in Victoria, as did the Acting Premier of Victoria. Does the Minister accuse those men of sensationalising? When people who hold such positions see these things happening and seek to draw them to the public attention I think that I, as the Opposition's spokesman in this area, have a responsibility to respond, having ascertained to my own satisfaction that there is substance in the statements. I think the Government has a responsibility in this matter. It is not good enough for the Government to try to skirt around the problem. 
There is a need to examine this whole matter. The only way to do this is by the establishment of a select parliamentary inquiry. I know that the Minister has discarded such a suggestion. However, the Premier of Victoria is on record as having telephoned the Prime Minister seeking a public inquiry. The Minister nods his head. I am not quite sure of the position. I am quoting what was stated on, I think, the front page of the Melbourne  Age.  I assume that it is correct, but may be it is not correct. It does not matter if it is not correct because a little later in my speech I will quote what was stated by the Minister. He shares the same view on the matter. There is only one way in which we can provide a forum in which there can be a bipartisan approach to this important subject. The Minister said that it should be above politics. I agree that the matter has to be above politics. At the same time, the fact that it is above politics is qualified by a sense of responsibility. As I said, after talking to the people I have talked to over the past year, from the evidence I have seen, from the discussions I have had and from what I have heard said by responsible people in the industry among their peers I am convinced that there is a need to examine in particular the general aviation area. 
There is probably a need to introduce annual licensing of general aviation pilots. I mentioned earlier the position as stated by flying club proprietors. I do not want to name the clubs concerned but I can name them. I can name the principals if required but I do not wish to do so. If one is able to get a quickie licence elsewhere or to get a licence under less strict conditions, that licence is good for a subsequent two years. After two years if the person concerned is able to supply a medical certificate and provide the necessary evidence- it need be only one's log book, as I understand it- to show that he has flown five hours in the previous 90 days, he can go on holding a private pilot's licence indefinitely without any mandatory examination of his skills as a pilot. It is not only the pilot who is concerned in the event of an accident but also those people who are with him and the other object with which the aircraft may collide if there is a mid-air collision. In those circumstances, I put it to the House that there is a need for a select parliamentary committee to be established, composed of members from both sides of the House. This should be done so that a stop is put to the accusation that the Opposition is being political on this subject, so that there can be a bipartisan approach to the matter and so that some method is established to remedy these abuses. 
Let me conclude my speech with this quotation: 
The Minister for Transport has a heavy responsibility to see that there is no slackening in the safety and other services at airports throughout Australia. The people of Australia demand safety and it is not proper for the Minister to make changes to the practised safety provisions of aerodromes around Australia without a proper inquiry. I believe that the Minister, if he is so mad keen to cut the air services group within the Depanment of Transport down to size - 
The Minister mentioned the reduction earlier-  as he seems to be, ought to set up - 
That is, the Minister ought to set up-  a special committee of the House of Representatives to study the question, instead of going off on an ad hoc basis closing down fire services and reducing safety standards in general. 
It is time that the Minister set out to shake himself out of his lethargy and do something constructive for the air transport group instead of hacking away at it. 
I agree with that view which was put to this Parliament by the Minister for Transport, who is at the table, on 21 November 1974, a year before his Government was returned to office. I agree with him. I ask him to discard his earlier statement that cannot be substantiated and to return to the view that he expressed to this Parliament. I ask him to set in motion machinery to establish a select parliamentary committee of inquiry into aviation safety services with particular reference to general aviation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Short)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What was the total sum paid to individual aircraft operators for the provision of departmental services in the Northern Territory during each year since 1 962. 
What was the nature of the departmental service in each case. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
How many officers from his Department's Canberra offices took sick leave in 1976. 
What percentage of the total staff establishment did this number represent. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
1 ) What is the definition of hazardous cargo as provided for in regulations governing the transport of cargo on aircraft ( a ) within Australia and ( b ) entering or departing Australia. 
Will he specify the precise relevant regulations and /or legislative provisions covering the transport of hazardous goods or freight by aircraft. 
How many prosecutions have been launched in Australia, in each of the last S years and in how many cases did convictions result, in respect of breaches of regulations relating to the air carriage of hazardous cargo. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 June 1 978: 
1 ) Are the latest accounts available for the operation of the Australian National Railways Commission those for the year 1974-75. 
If so, why are the accounts for subsequent years not available. 
When will he table the accounts for those years. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
1 ) What are the classifications and salaries of all officers who have refused transfers to Canberra from the Melbourne offices of his Department from 23 May 1977 to date. 
Which of those officers have transferred to alternative positions within the Department's Melbourne offices rather than accept transfer to Canberra. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
1 ) How many resignations have occurred from his Department's Melbourne offices from 23 May 1 977 to date. 
What were the reasons given for each resignation. 
What were the classifications and salaries of officers who resigned. 
What action has been taken to fill the resultant vacancies. 
5 ) Which vacancies still remain. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
What were the classifications and salaries of officers who resigned from his Depanment between 1 January 1976 and 23 May 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) How many employees of the former North Australia Railway were retrenched as a result of the closure of the railway. 
Has his Department sought alternative employment for the retrenched employees. 
If so, how many employees were found alternative employment 
How many persons are now employed by North Australia Railway and what is the designation of each. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
1 ) What studies have been carried out by his Department in recent years into the incidence of alcohol and forms of drug abuse in accidents or incidents involving non-airline aircraft in Australia and overseas. 
What have those studies shown and will he make the results available. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
1 ) How many officers, in each classification in his Department, have the rental of their home telephone paid (a) in full and ( b) in part by his Department. 
What sum was involved in the payment of home telephone accounts (a) in full and (b) in part by his Department during 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
) What is the basis of determination of: (a) which airports should be provided with rescue firefighting services; and (b) the standards of firefighting services to be provided at airports. 
Has the basis of determination been amended during the last two years; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1 978: 
How many officers of his Department's Melbourne offices have sought (a) transfers or (b) promotions during the periods (i) 1 January 1976 to 31 December 1976, (ii) 1 January 1977 to 31 December 1977 and (iii) 1 January 1978 to date. 
What are the classification and salaries of each of the officers involved. 
What were the reasons given for each application for (a) transfer and (b) promotion. 
How many officers have been transferred or promoted. 
What action has he taken to fill the resultant vacancies. 
Which vacancies still remain. 
-Much as I respect the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  having listened closely to his remarks in support of the amendment he moved, I cannot help but feel that there is a tone of wanting to turn back the clock. I express the view that clause ( 1 ) (a) (i) of the terms of reference is wide enough in its present form. I put it to the House that parliaments cannot legislate to compel good relationships between people, just as they cannot legislate to compel people to have good memories on all occasions. 
I wish to deal more specifically with the problems that have arisen in my own electorate, as well as the hardships and the anguish that I have seen experienced by my constituents, particularly as they relate to Newcastle. My electorate is serviced by the administrative centre of Newcastle. There is an almost total lack of facilities there, and that has caused great difficulty for people. I cannot help but feel also that, in the imposition of fees and in the denial of adequate funding for legal aid, the Government in its own way has injected into its financial priorities the thinking of some of the members of the Government. I remind honourable members of the attitude expressed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during the election campaign last year on the release of the report of the Royal Commission into Human Relationships. The statements he made and the claims he made had no basis whatsoever in fact, when one examined the recommendations of the Royal Commission. I see that as being an emphasis in the thinking of the Government and in the manner in which it provides for the implementation and operation of the Family Law Act. 
The most distressing thing I have experienced in my electorate is the long delays that people have to suffer under the Family Law Act. In the Newcastle region, even in cases which involve uncomplicated proceedings, there is a minimum delay of five months. There is no permanent registry in the region. There is no court in the region and there has been no promise or indication that at an early date there will be a permanent court or a permanent judge in the Newcastle region. We are talking about a region which has a population in excess of that of the State of Tasmania. We are talking about people who live in a region which suffers from a very high level of unemployment. A great deal of personal distress is flowing from this. 
The honourable member says that it is a State matter. I cannot distinguish which it is, and I do not want to concern myself with where the fault lies. The result is that people are suffering. The trauma and the mental distress that people are going through ought to be avoided. I am certain that that was the intention of those who supported the original legislation and those who looked at the matter over a number of years. I am sure that their intention was to remove those disabilities from divorce proceedings. As was mentioned earlier by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  no matter what the law is, when a marriage breaks down it has broken down and, try as some people may to prevent any further proceedings following that breakdown, it will not change the breakdown in the relationship which has occurred. 
Let me return to the situation in Newcastle. The people in the Newcastle region have the alternative of going to Sydney at very considerable expense, facing interminable delays and losing days at work. It involves travelling to Sydney, taking days off work to go to the court, waiting around Sydney and then finding that the case will not be coming on or is to be adjourned again. In those circumstances, the cost is exorbitant. In view of the current state of legal aid, I cite the case of two relatively young invalid pensioners. Their marriage broke down. The divorce has been finalised but the case has been dragging on for months and months, getting on into years, because of a disagreement over property. In this case, the few hundred dollars which the husband has, in addition to the invalid pension, is denying that couple legal aid. They cannot get legal aid to complete their property settlement. The money he has has to be spent on connecting his house to sewerage, under compulsion from the local sewerage authority. So the position is that the matter cannot be settled. The couple cannot regularise their financial relationships and they are faced with a great deal of difficulty. 
I refer to another case of a young couple who married in 1974 and separated in mid- 1976. They have no children. The wife went into the marriage with personal debts. She had an old car. The young man, who owned a home, had considerable savings and was well on the way to purchasing another home. In recent times he became unemployed. He is still unemployed. He cannot get the unemployment benefit because, according to the records, he has property. He has an investment but he cannot get at his own money because that is subject to property determination in relation to the former marriage. I am quite sure that what has happened here is that, as a result of smart legal advice, the former wife is using the delay in getting to court as a tool. In effect, what has happened in the Newcastle region is that in property settlements this interminable delay has become a form of blackmail. That matter alone is one that I would very much like the Committee to examine. I would hope that so that something can be done to remove these problems, it would carry out its proceedings as quickly as possible. 
The $100 filing fee is now imposed on the basis that in public administration there should be some sort of return to government for the costs involved, but it is a penalty on misery. It denies people in a poorer station in life the opportunity to regularise their relationships, to regain their dignity. It has been put to me that it would be of much greater benefit to the community if, instead of there being a $ 100 filing fee there were some system- the committee might wish to consider this- of penalties in cases of interminable delay or continued refusal on the part of one of the partners of the former marriage to come to some reasonable property settlement. That penalty could be $100 or any figure that was determined. The proceeds of such penalties could then go towards the cost of the administration of the 
Act, rather than be taken in the initial stages as a fee. 
I know that prior to the passage of the Family Law Act, and when it first came into operation, there were continual outcries at the high rate of divorce, but I think most people now realise that those very high rates experienced in the early years of the Act's implementation really represented a clearing away of the backlog of marriage breakdowns. Since that backlog has been cleared away there has been a regularisation of relationships and there has been a flattening out of the curve in the rate of divorce. 
Moreover, as I note Justice Evatt pointed out in Newcastle a few months ago, there has been a very high remarriage rate. That demonstrates the substance of the claims made by the proponents of the Act, and made in the course of the inquiries undertaken prior to its presentation to this Parliament. As I understand it, in Sydney there are at present waiting to be heard probably 2,500 cases and the rate of settlement is about eight a week. The case of the unemployed person I mentioned is likely to be heard, at the earliest, in April of next year. The young man concerned is in a poor state of health as a result of the trauma he is undergoing. He cannot utilise his assets. He cannot get a job. He wants to put his money into business. He cannot do anything. If we are really concerned about people we ought to have a speedy resolution of these problems. If we think back to the reason for the introduction of the original legislation we will recall that those of us who supported it believed that the cost of divorce, of regularising relationships, would be cheaper; that the heartbreak, the anguish involved in the breakdown of those relationships would be minimised and that there would be an opportunity to restore humanity and dignity to the whole institution of marriage. But I can say from my own experience in my electorate, and as I get feedback from the Newcastle region, that certainly that has not happened in that region to the extent that it ought to have happened. 
I am told that there is a large body of opinion in that region which favours reversion to the State courts. Naturally, that is another matter that the committee might examine, but I say in conclusion that I hope that we can have a quick handling of the problem, and that the Goverment will again look at the provision for legal aid, especially in low income cases. What is happening here, as I said earlier, is really discrimination against the poor. It seems to me that those who have the funds to meet the demands of the greedy solicitors, and the industry that is thriving on this business of delay and hardship, can regularise their relationships; those who do not have the money and thus access to legal aid have to live in an irregular and illegal relationship. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
1 ) What funds have been made available to each of the States and Territories by category for activities associated with (a) road construction, (b) road maintenance and improvements, (c) road safety facilities and improvements, and (d) total road works during each of the years from 1959 to date. 
What proportion did each of those items of expenditure represent expressed as a percentage of National Gross Domestic Product. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) Further to question No. 607  (Hansard,  12 April 1977, page 1477) what have been the results of the study commenced in 1976-77 by the Interdepartmental Coastal Surveillance Organisation chaired by the Department of Transport, into surveillance requirements likely to flow from a possible 200-mile Australian economic zone. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
1 ) What are the types and dimensions of the fire hose couplings referred to in item (a) on page 14 of the 1976-77 Report of the Commonwealth Fire Board. 
What authorities and/or organisations use the hose couplings referred to in the report. 
When will the Minister table in the Parliament the Board 's report into the standardisation of hose couplings in Australia. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 6 October 1977 as question No. 1687 and remain unanswered at the close of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister say in answer to question No. 206  (Hansard,  16 March 1978, page 890) that his attention had been drawn to a report in the Melbourne  Sun News-Pictorial  of 9 September 1977 in which it was alleged that a Ferrari Boxer motor car was driven at speeds of up to 180km/h on streets near Parliament House on 7 September 1977. 
Did the Minister also say that the occupants of the car included the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport. 
Who provided the Department of Administrative Services with this information. 
Which of the four occupants of the car was the driver at various times during the journey. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
What medical facilities are provided at each of Australia's (a) domestic and (b) international terminals. 
Do these facilities include (a) a medical room, (b) a medical officer or nurse stationed at the terminal and (c) an airport ambulance; if not, why not. 
What first aid equipment is required on (a) domestic and (b) international flights leaving Australia. 
Does this first aid equipment include (a) a Viba Bag, used for the resuscitation of heart victims, and (b) a bottle of oxygen. 
Does the bottle of oxygen have a face mask suitable for resuscitation purposes. 
What items are contained in first aid kits on (a) domestic and (b) international flights which are suitable ibr the resuscitation of heart victims. 
What first aid or medical training do employees of domestic airlines and Qantas receive. 
Does the International Air Travellers Association specify any first aid or medical training for employees of IATA's member airlines. 
Does the International Civil Aviation Organisation provide any guidelines for first aid as medical training of airline employees. 
How many persons have died (a) on aircraft over Australian territory and (b) at Australian airports, in the last 3 years. 
Does his Department have any plans to require domestic airlines and Qantas to upgrade the standard of medical equipment provided in their aircraft. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice on 30 May 1978: 
1 ) What are the names and addresses of (a) contractors who have participated in the structural and building alterations, and (b) suppliers of soft furnishings and furniture to the Prime Minister's Lodge since 1 1 November 1 975. 
2 ) Have all accounts for alterations to and refurbishing of the Lodge been paid. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
Has his Department established a research or coordinating body dealing with transport matters. 
If so, (a) what are the specific functions, (b) when was it established, (c) what is the title of each of the functional areas of the body, (d) how many persons are employed in each of the functional areas, (e) what is the name and classification of the most senior officer in each of the body's functional areas, (f) what mechanisms exist for liaising with the Minister for Transport and the Department of Transport, (g) what is the name and classification of the body's most senior officer, and to whom does he report and (h) what mechanisms exist for liaison with the State transport departments. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
When has he travelled overseas by aeroplane since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 8 June 1 978: 
1 ) What action has been taken by the Government or is proposed, to economise on, or to replace, consumption of liquid fuels in activities associated with the provision of (a) urban public passenger transport, (b) urban freight transport by (i) rail and (ii) road, (c) non-urban freight transport by (i) rail or (ii) road and (d) private road transport. 
What is the expected economic effect in each category listed in part ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many C-Star Government cars are currently on issue. 
How many were on issue for each of the periods (a) 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1976, (b) 1 July 1976 to 1 January 1977, (c) 2 January 1977 to 30 June 1977 and (d) 1 July 1977to1 January 1978. 
-We have listened to a quaint yet querulous contribution from the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  He sits in this Parliament as the supporter of a government which is presiding over the destruction of the economic fabric of this nation. What did he do? He sought to offload responsibility onto the State governments. He wants to have a little bit each way. I am sorry; he cannot have that. He is party to the destruction of the Australian economy that is occurring under the Fraser Administration. My grievance relates to the determination of the Government to make air travellers second class citizens in this country in relation to the price and quality of airline services and related facilities that could and should be available. In particular, I shall speak about the new airport car rental arrangements announced by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on 3 1 August. 
Since the present Minister for Transport assumed office we have seen aviation policy and administration in Australia degenerate into a shambles with consumer interests given a very low priority. In the past one and a half years we have witnessed two separate, expensive and overlapping inquiries into domestic and international aviation, both of which were shrouded in obsessional secrecy and the firm results of which the public has yet to see. On the issue of cheaper international air fares the Government nas stalled, prevaricated and procrastinated. There has been a succession of half-truths and distortions by the Government and still not one person has been able to travel overseas at the cheaper rates that have been touted for so long. At the time when the Minister was publicly encouraging Laker Airways to place a submission before him he was fully aware that  Mr Laker  would first have to receive approval from the United Kingdom Government to fly to Australia. But the Minister still persisted in the charade of the imminent introduction of lower air fares, effectively raising public expectations and creating chaos in the travel industry. 
On the domestic aviation scene fares have risen by almost 20 per cent in just over two years, with a further substantial rise to come as a result of this Government's mismanagement. All these rises have been personally approved by the Minister. The response of the Minister to the deteriorating air safety situation resulting from the lack of adequate funding and supervisory personnel, for which he has ministerial responsibility, has been to smear and denigrate the responsible aviation people who have drawn public attention to the seriousness of the situation. 
There have been no answers, no justifiable responses, but just abuse. In short, we have witnessed an astonishing lack of frankness from the Government on aviation matters generally. Its actions have placed the public interest last. Administrators in other nations have recognised the growing importance of air travel and related activities to their citizens. They have moved to make air travel as accessible as possible to as wide a range of the community as possible commensurate with the viability of their aviation industries. That is an ojective which the Opposition wholeheartedly endorses. However, the policy of this Government has been to concentrate on maintaining the status quo and to preserve special relationships that have existed within the aviation industry at the expense of consumer interests. 
I return now to the specific subject of airport car rental arrangements. The existing 10-year agreement which expires in June 1979 was drawn up in a climate which, in retrospect, must arouse suspicion about the motives and competence of the Government of the day. No amount of reasonable or responsible examination of the reasons given at the time and since can justify the decision to award a 10-year exclusive contract to one operator without review during the period of the contract.  Mr Justice  Northrop in the recent Trade Practices Commission case estimated that the Avis Rent-a-Car System Pty Ltd held 43 per cent to 46 per cent of the total car rental market, while Kay-Hertz Rent-a-Car held 17 per cent, Budget Rent A Car Systems Pty Ltd held 16 per cent, LetzRentaCar held 5 per cent, Thrifty Rent-a-Car held 1 per cent, with other operators making up the balance of 15 per cent to 18 per cent of the market. 
In the airport car rental market, which totals approximately $20m per annum, Avis has about 45 per cent of the market, Budget 21 per cent, Kay-Hertz 17 per cent and other operators 17 per cent. The conditions of the new 5-year arrangements announced by the Minister provide for one national operator to service all government airports and a second operator on an airport by airport basis. The effect of these conditions is to advantage substantially the existing operator. The method of tendering is by offering a percentage of turnover obtained at airports. This means that new operators will have to tender a much higher share of their existing turnover- naturally they have a smaller turnover because of their percentage share of the market- in order to match the tender of the established national operator. 
The Minister has given the flimsy excuse that limitations on terminal and car parking accommodation preclude having more than two operators at each airport. The question I ask is: What is so magical about two operators? There is not enough room for one operator at a number of airports, so there is certainly not enough room for two. If that is to be the guideline and limitation then certainly there is room for three. That guideline does not apply to two operators and it should not apply to three. The effect of the Minister's decision is to advantage further the existing operator. It must be remembered that the airline industry is going through a period of growth and the conditions which prevailed between 1969 and 1974 are much different to the conditions which are projected between 1979 and 1984. 
In the year just passed Avis has paid some $700,000 or 5 per cent of its turnover to the Department of Transport. As I said earlier, for a smaller operator to enter the market to advantage and to increase competition, he would have to match this figure in money terms. But in percentage terms, as a proportion of turnover, it would represent a much higher figure. I return to the expanding growth of the market in the airline industry. Naturally there will be a consequential expanding market that will flow to car rental operators. The additional competition that would result from three operators at each airport would ensure, in the view of the Opposition, a more effective level of competition between operators. It would ensure a better quality of service and more competitive rates between operators. The Government's proposal will hinder the development of competition and be to the disadvantage of air travellers in the long term. The Minister in his statement claimed that the Government had had extensive consultation with the car rental industry. I suggest that the consultation was in accordance with Ambrose Bierce's definition of the words 'to consult' as shown in the Devil's Dictionary which states that the verb 'to consult' means the seeking of another's approval for a course already decided upon. I have little doubt that that is the course which has been followed in this case. 
The new arrangements are designed to maintain the status quo and their effect will be to inhibit industry growth. At the same time from the viewpoint of the Department of the Treasury there is a very strong likelihood of a continuing major loss to public revenue. As I pointed out earlier, 45 per cent of the present rent-a-car traffic goes to the existing operator at airports. The other operators who are picking up traffic and renting cars at airports pay nothing to the 
Department of Transport or to revenue. Unless a system is devised to provide that a share of the proceeds of all business obtained at airports is to go to revenue, there will be not only inequity towards those who are not authorised to operate from within the airport but also a serious and substantial loss to public revenue. It seems somehow that competition is anathema to this conservative Government. The extent to which it will go to prevent competition is evidenced by the recent action of the Minister for Transport in leaning on Trans-Australian Airlines to prevent it from offering the services of Budget and KayHertz to its passengers despite the fact that Avis is controlled by TAA's opponent in the airline market. I think that this can be interpreted from any reasonable point of view only as an abuse of power by the Minister on behalf of the Government. It is the view of the Opposition very clearly and very firmly on this issue that airlines and airline-related activities are there to serve the public and to provide the best quality of service at the lowest possible price. They do not exist to maintain industry advantage and the industry should be there to serve the community. The Government's decision on this new contract will prove to be to the disadvantage of the Australian public. I challenge the Minister to show to the Parliament and to the public how any operator other than the existing operator at Australian airports will be able to meet in a successful manner the conditions which have been set out in the new contractual arrangements that he announced on 3 1 August. 
-Clause 3 of this Bill deals with the grant of financial assistance in connection with home care services. It is a very simple, very short clause. It states: 
Section 6 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section ( 1 ) 'two-thirds ' and substituting 'one-half. 
The effect of this amendment is to reduce substantially in sharing terms the commitment of the Federal Government to the funding of home care services. It reflects in very clear terms an abandonment of aged people and an abandonment of the full share of responsibility by this Government to provide financial assistance for aged persons, particularly sick aged persons. It has to be seen in the context of the financial priorities of this Government. I put it to the Committee that it is simply an exercise in doublespeak to talk about matching dollar for dollar with the States when in effect what the Government is doing by the implementation of this clause is abandoning one-third of the Federal Government's share of responsibility for the very important and humane task of assisting financially the provision of home care services to aged people, particularly sick aged people. I know that many aged people in my electorate are nonplussed by the attitude of this Government and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  towards them. They are unable to reconcile legislation such as this. This specific clause details a reduction of one-third in the share of Federal responsibility in caring for sick aged people in their homes. They are unable to reconcile that kind of priority with the priority that provides for $600-a-night luxury hotel suites abroad for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and with a priority that entails plucking $40m out of the air to re-equip the VIP fleet. They are the very simple things to which aged people who are the recipients of these programs and whose welfare will be affected by the implementation of this clause can relate and they are the things they cannot understand. I put it to the Committee- 
-If the Government Whip were to control himself he would do this Parliament, the Australian nation and you,  Mr Chairman,  a great service in facilitating responsible - 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1 978: 
Did he state in answer to question 1230  (Hansard,  2 November 1976, page 2243) that the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design had under consideration the recommendation by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety relating to a formal approach to individual vehicle companies requesting detailed cost information and other relevant information for the purposes of design rule formulation. 
If so, (a) has he been advised of the results of the Advisory Committee's consideration of the recommendation and ( b) what are the results of the recommendation. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 30 May 1 978: 
When did he travel overseas during the period 1 1 November 1975 to date. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) Has the study plan of the examination of Port Investment Needs been completed. 
If so, what action has been taken as a result of the study. 
If the study has not been completed, when is it expected to be completed. 
My question which I direct to  the Minister for Productivity relates to the use of Australian Nomad aircraft for marine surveillance work. Is it a fact that the Indonesian Government has ordered another six aircraft for this purpose? Is the Minister aware that his Department recently provided in Europe demonstration flights of the Nomad aircraft to European police forces with a view to those police forces acquiring these aircraft for surveillance work? Has his attention also been drawn to reports of a statement by an official of the Government Aircraft Factories that the Department of Transports tender schedule for the hiring of three light aircraft for surveillance work in Australia seems to be tailormade for United States aircraft? Does he share this view? Finally, will the Minister advise the Minister for Transport in light of the Minister's earlier answer to a similar question of the Nomad's special advantages and performance characteristics for coastal surveillance type duties so that these aircraft may be used by the Department of Transport thus providing greater opportunity for the Australian light aircraft industry? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1 978: 
What circumstances enabled Qantas to transport Government Ministers within Australia since 1 1 November 1975. 
Which other persons are entitled to travel on internal flights with Qantas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article appearing in the  Australian Financial  . Review of 12 June 1978 referring to recommendations of the Review of International Civil Aviation Policy. 
Considering the article's extensive reporting of the Review's recommendations, will he table the recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 August 1 978: 
Is he able to say what are the names of the companies of which  Mr G.  O.'D Crowther was a director prior to, during and after his term as Government Director of Connair Pty Ltd. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 August 1 978: 
Has his Department established a joint Committee with the Victorian State Department of Transport to consider the future airport needs of the Port Phillip region. 
If so (a) What are the names and classifications of each member of the committee; (b) Which department provides the committee's chairman; (c) When was the committee established; (d) What are the committee's terms of reference; (e) Have any reports been presented by the committee; and (f) When does he expect to receive the committee 's final report. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 August 1 978: 
1 ) What was the total quantity of wool shipped by the Australian Wool Corporation to Tacoma, United States of America earlier this year. 
Was the wool packed in standard, high density dumped or jumbo bales. 
If the wool was packed in more than one type of bale, how many bales of each bale type were used. 
From what Australian ports was the wool shipped. 
How many bales were loaded at each port. 
Was the major carrier Pacific Australia Direct Line; if so, how many bales did it carry. 
If the Pacific Australia Direct Line was not the major carrier, which line was the major carrier. 
How many bales were shipped (a) in containers and (b) as unitised cargo. 
If a member of the Conference was the major carrier, which line or lines carried the remainder of the wool. 
What quantity of wool was loaded at each port. 
What are the freight rates applicable to wool carried by signatories to the Australia-Pacific Coast Agreement. 
What were the rates charged for the carriage of the wool from Australia to Tacoma. 
What was the rate charged by the minor carrier. 
What is the estimated loss of revenue to the Australia-Northbound Conference as a result of the experimental shipments. 
Has any of the wool shipped to Tacoma been reexported to destinations outside the United States of America; if so, (a) what are the quantities re-exported and (b) what are the destinations. 
Where the rates charged for the wool shipped to Tacoma on a terminal to terminal basis; if not, on what basis were the rates charged. 
In what currency or currencies were the freight charges payable. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
Did he state on 10 November 1977 that the terminal facilities at Coolangatta Airport, Queensland, are a disgrace. 
If so, what is the specific nature of the terminal facilities that require renovation or replacement. 
What cost studies have been carried out into renovations and replacements, and what is the estimated cost and time for completion of the necessary work. 
What is the nature and estimated costs of necessary runway and apron improvements, and what is the estimated time for completion of these works. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
1 ) What is the nature and availability of concessional air fares made available by domestic and international airlines to aged and invalid pensioners on an intrastate, national or international basis. 
Is this matter under review by the Government. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) Does he recall saying in his opening address to the Urban Transport Marketing Seminar that if the conference develops clear guidelines and recommendations on what actions should be pursued by urban transport operators then he would lend his support to see that they are implemented. 
What action has he taken to implement the Seminar's recommendations as outlined in its report dated 29 to 31 March 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Did any officers of the Attorney-General 's Department visit Switzerland during 1 975-76. 
If so, (a) What are the names and classifications of the officers involved, (b) what were the dates of their visits and (c) what was the purpose of the visits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) What were the names, classifications and salary ranges of staff members of each Minister during the periods (a) 1 1 November 1975 to 30 June 1976, (b) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1 977 and (c) 1 July 1 977 to date. 
What payments were made to each of those persons by way of (a) salary, (b) overtime and (c) allowances during each of the same periods. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) How many meetings have been held by the Stevedoring Industry Consultative Council since its formation and on what dates were these meetings held. 
What subjects were considered by the Council at those meetings. 
What recommendations, or reports, have been submitted to the Government by the Council. 
What action has the Government taken in respect of each of those recommendations or reports. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
Where and when has he travelled overseas since 11 November 1975. 
-The statement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the tabling of the international civil aviation policy review comes on the first anniversary of the announcement that that review would be conducted. I have had barely two hours to examine the Minister's statement, the report and its attachments, which in total number some 754 pages. The report contains a series of options. To some of them the Government appears to have given support, and others it has rejected. It is unclear from the Minister's statement which is which. I invite the House first to recall the manner in which the review has been conducted and the Government's performance in relation to international aviation policy. The Government, in its handling of the cheaper air fares issue, has achieved, I believe, a previously unsurpassed record for ineptness, irresponsibility and obsessional secrecy. It has failed to consider in an open and frank way the interest of millions of Australians in overseas travel. Twelve months ago, when the Minister announced the review, the Opposition responded that the review should be by way of a public inquiry in which' the needs and wants of air travellers could be canvassed and the claims and counterclaims of competitive airline operators could be tested and evaluated. The Minister for Transport in his usual style replied: 
What the public will be able to evaluate is what conclusions the Government comes to, and that is the important thing. 
That is where the Opposition and the Government are in stark contrast. We believe that there is a role for consumer participation in aviation; that there has to be an end to the private club of the bureaucracy and the industry getting together and telling the people what they are to pay and what service they are to get. In other words, the Australian people would be gratuitously afforded the opportunity to view the verdict but not the evidence. That is what the Minister has done today. The public has been given the opportunity to view the verdict but not to view the evidence which was submitted. So instead of having a frank, responsible and informed public discussion on the air travel needs of Australians we have witnessed a succession of contrived, competitive leaks which have served to create confusion in the public mind, which have caused the public to defer travel and to have unsupported expectations of cheaper air fares, and which have caused considerable difficulty for the Australian tourist industry. The Minister was a direct contributor to the raised expectations because of the regular statements he made that he was sympathetic to  Sir Freddie  Laker's proposals. He virtually invited  Sir Freddie  Laker to submit a firm proposal. However, the fact is that the Minister was well aware that before Laker Airways could fly to Australia it must first receive approval from the United Kingdom Government. That approval had not been obtained. In short, for a year the Australian public has been fobbed off, misinformed and deceived. The Minister's longawaited statement can best be described as a false pregnancy, because it does not tell us anything new. 
-I do not think the Minister would like the term 'phantom pregnancy'. Let us call it a false pregnancy. Everything the Minister has said today we have read in the newspapers during the last eight to nine months, but some of it was more accurately reported in the newspapers than it has been presented today. The report does not set any firm dates for the introduction of cheap air fares. It contains no firm decisions and it leaves many questions unanswered. 
From this side of the chamber I want to emphasise the view that I have expressed for a year on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. That view is that we believe that there is substantial room for reducing international and domestic air fares, that there should be a frank and public discussion of the whole subject of the aviation industry, including the needs and wants of air travel consumers, that there should be a discontinuation of the private club of the aviation industry and bureaucracy deciding what is good for air travellers, and that there has to be consumer participation in the decision-making process within the aviation industry. We reject utterly the high air fare policies of the present Government which has brought forward this long overdue report. 
In the time remaining to me I want to turn to the Minister's speech. He referred to the Government deciding to negotiate changed air service arrangements on an end to end basis- third and fourth freedoms of the air. Later in his speech he stated that it was untrue that the Government proposed to exclude any airlines from Australia. What he does not say is that the most likely result of the negotiations in relation to these third and fourth freedoms on an end to end basis will be that the airlines that he mentioned- they have been mentioned recently- will withdraw from Australia. So the effect will be the same: They will not be excluded but they will be squeezed out by the new conditions. The Minister went on to say in his statement: 
It is our intention that the airlines of each country should supply . . . the lowest possible cost travel . . . 
We do not take issue with the scale of fares that he has announced. I think that they will provide an opportunity for many thousands of Australians to see their relatives abroad, to re-join their families. But the Minister went on to say:   the objective of the policy is to get better utilisation of expensive aircraft by filling empty seats. 
We are right back to square one. The basic equation of airline operation is that more bodies and more seats mean lower air fares for all travellers. But the Minister only a few weeks ago presented himself to a transport conference as the champion of free enterprise. I would have thought that somewhere in the report or in his comments there would have been reference to the ability of competition to produce efficiency. In effect, what the Minister has said is that competition is out; it is inefficient. He says that the only way in which to get efficiency is by total regulation, by third and fourth freedoms negotiations, in spite of the comments he made a few weeks ago about free enterprise. 
The Minister's statement goes on to refer to all Australian gateway airports'. But he does not say anything about the recent increase in domestic air fares, a matter about which he has remained silent for some weeks now. The recent increase in domestic air fares has direct relevance to this statement and to the policies which the Minister has sought to enunciate, because one of the main factors in the minds of people proposing to come to Australia is how much it will cost them to travel within Australia when they get here. We cannot look at international air fares in isolation. They are inseparably linked to the cost structure of the domestic aviation industry. If the Government is genuine in wanting to help and to expand the Australian tourist industry it must accept the relevance of that point. In referring to the proponents of other proposals the Minister later in his statement said: 
They did not give consideration to how changed arrangements would affect other countries with which Australia has bilateral air service agreements. 
The fact is that whatever proposals are put forward by other countries, they first must receive the approval- they have to receive it at some stage anyway- of the government of the country of origin for the proposals which they seek to negotiate. So it is not an argument to say that we cannot consider their proposals or that they have not thought about how such proposals will affect other countries. They must first get the approval of the government of the country of origin. The Minister later in his statement referred to the significant scheduling changes which would have impacted adversely on service availability. In the interests of the public I would like the Minister at some later stage to expand on that statement, because nowhere in his statement, from what I have read of it so far, is there any indication of the likely changed frequency of scheduling of services. 

 Mr MORRIS As the Minister points out, I have not had an opportunity to read all of the report, but I have not seen any information in this regard. I hope that he will expand at some stage on the alteration to the frequency of scheduled services. The Minister then went on to say: 
. these developments would have happened without any regard to our relations with those other countries whose interests would have been affected. 
I referred earlier to the fact that other countries have to have the stamp of approval of the country of origin. The Minister then went on to say: 
The Government's proposal will permit maintenance of reasonable frequency levels at all airports; and . . . allow the development of more city to city direct service. 
The question which is immediately raised is: To which cities is the Minister referring? Does he mean that there will be more services to Perth and Brisbane? Does he mean that more gateway cities into Australia will be established? Does he mean that there will be more services of international aircraft operating within Australia. Those points, I believe, are important to the Australian tourist industry and the Australian economy. Again I ask that at some stage the Minister elaborate on these matters for the information of the Australian public, if they are not stressed in the detail of the report. The Minister went on to say in his statement: 
The new arrangements we have proposed for lower international air fares will provide further stimulus to the travel and tourist industry. 
He went on to refer to the record 37 per cent increase in funds this year for the Australian Tourist Commission. What the Minister is doing is taking the future and putting it in the past. The 37 per cent increase in funds this year for the Australian Tourist Commission has only just been announced. It did not have any effect on the tourist industry in the past year. But what has had an effect on the Australian tourist industry has been a 27 per cent cumulative increase in domestic air fares in this country in just over two years. That has had a retardant effect on the Australian tourist industry. What else has had an effect has been the fuelling and the promotion by government departments of leaks of the contents of this report. It is quite clear that over recent months one department has been leaking information contained in the report in an effort to get its point of view across and in an effort to damage maybe what the Department of Transport was trying to do, maybe what the Minister was trying to do, or maybe what a competitor airline was trying to do. All of that could have been avoided if the inquiry had been made public, if the airlines had been called before the inquiry to substantiate their claims. I see that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  is in the chamber. He is the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. Many of the airlines which made submissions to the review committee made submissions to the Committee on Tourism. They were able to appear in public before that Committee. They were able to put their case. The same process should have been followed in respect of this review. Later in his statement the Minister sought to give the impression that some special favour is being granted to the Australian public by the making of this announcement today. The Minister stated: 
 I have agreed, in consultations with the British Government, to outline today the indicative fare levels I am hopeful of achieving on the United Kingdom-Australia route. 
Let us look at the difference in the way in which the United Kingdom deals with its residents and the way in which we are dealt with by this Government. The statement which the Minister made has been presented to the Parliament in such a way that its contents are apparently to be regarded as a favour or some special dispensation to the public. The Minister is coming clean. Let me turn to the United Kingdom  Daily Telegraph  of 9 August, the day after the negotiations took place between senior officers of the British Government and officers of the Australian Department of Transport. I will read two sentences from that newspaper: 
A spokesman for the Department of Trade whose senior officials last week concluded a further round of talks with the Australian opposite numbers in Canberra said that the two governments had reached a broad measure of agreement about reducing the return air fare to $570. 
That is a $2 difference. That is how the matter has been dealt with in the United Kingdom. Frankly, it has been handled in a much more open way than it has been dealt with here. So the Minister is not giving anything away at all in announcing the fare schedule today. The other point on page 7 that I would like to raise with the Minister is that he referred to the economy air fare being reduced from $1,880 to $1,450 without stopover. No mention is made of the penalty to be incurred for a stopover. On page 8 he refers to the priority being given to the Kangaroo route to London. 
-On page 8 the Minister refers to the preference for the Kangaroo route to London. No reference is made to the Pacific. On page 9 he goes on to make a more detailed statement. 
I hope it will not be on the second anniversary, this is the first anniversary. He goes on: 'I am hopeful some of the new fares can be introduced early next year'. December this year is the peak season and most of the airlines will be almost sold out or well on the way to being sold out of seats at this stage for December. As I recall it, January is the peak season for traffic coming from London to Australia. April, May and June are peak months so we are going to look at some time post high season. Is it to be March or April or is it to be after the high season when the airlines can get all the business they want anyway? 
In my mind there is a grave doubt that we are going into April, May or June rather than something like February or March, as the Minister is trying to indicate. Then he says on page 10 that the speculation that it is to be proposed to terminate the operation of some European carriers flying to Australia is not true. I outlined what was proposed in respect of KLM. It is quite clear from the negotiations that have occurred to date that what is going to happen is that JAT, KLM and UTA will be squeezed out of the new end to end arrangements. At the same time the Government is trying to negotiate better trading terms with the European Economic Community and UTA happens to be the airline of France, a principal in the EEC. Likewise with Holland and KLM. If we turn to the ASEAN situation we have the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  saying in Perth only a fortnight ago that Australia's relationships and influences are being judged more directly by the countries of the region in terms of our capacity to contribute to economic co-operation. 
Clearly negotiations with countries between London and Australia are very much linked up with foreign policy. It could well be that foreign policy in respect of other activities will be more important than where we rate in aviation priorities with those countries. Yet in the report and in the Minister's statement today scant mention has been made of the very serious implications involved there. With the EEC we had a trade last year of $4,5 18m, with ASEAN countries $1,4 10m. Both those areas will determine their relationships with Australia more on economic co-operation and trade than on airlines alone. I refer the Minister to page 262 of Volume I of the report. It states that most air service agreements can be terminated only with 12 months notice. I would have thought that the Minister would have mentioned that in his speech. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I seek an extension to speak for the appropriate time. 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
On a point of order, an arrangement was made that I would be allowed to speak for the same time that the Minister took in making his statement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
Is the Minister able to provide further information to that provided on pages 8 and 9 of the 1976-77 Report of the Commonwealth Fire Board relating to a brand of defective domestic oil heater. 
What was the nature of the specific defect that resulted in the heater being considered a fire risk. 
3 ) What was the brand of heater concerned. 
What action has been taken nationally to ensure that this brand of heater has been rendered safe in operation. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 6 October 1977 as question No. 1685 and remain unanswered at the close of the last Parliament 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice on 23 February 1978: 
What was the brand of carpet referred to in item (b) on page 9 of the 1 976-77 Report of the Commonwealth Fire Board. 
By whom was it marketed and where was it manufactured. 
What steps have been taken to prevent a recurrence of the type of incident referred to in this item. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 6 October 1977 as Question No. 1684 and remain unanswered at the close of the last Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) What were the findings of his Department's study of the passage of international air traffic over routes within Australia. 
2 ) Will he table the report of the study. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 August 1 978: 
1 ) What reviews, studies or inquiries relating to transport have been initiated by him since 15November 1977. 
On what date was each initiated. 
3 ) Which studies have been completed. 
What action has been taken to table in the Parliament the reports of those completed. 
What progress has been made in those inquiries not yet completed and when is it expected each will be completed. 
asked the Minister for Transport upon notice on 13 September 1978: 
What criteria were followed in selecting members for the Aviation Industry Advisory Council as announced on 13 July 1978. 
Are consumers and/or consumer associations directly represented on the AIAC: if not, is it proposed to provide for their representation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 September 1978: 
What criteria does his Department use for the investigation of (a) air accidents and (b) aircraft incidents. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) What has been the rate of recovery under the Light Dues Levy during the period 1 January 1 975 to date. 
When does he expect to achieve full cost recovery of Light Dues. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
What methodology has the Bureau of Transport Economics developed for the effective implementation of public participation in transport planning, as mentioned on page 24 of his Department's 1976-77 Annual Report. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware that a large number of clubs and organisations throughout Australia are offering travel benefits to their members? Has he obtained legal opinion on any or all of these matters? In particular, is he investigating the Australian Leisure Club, which is owned by major insurance and oil company interests, and the Newcastle Leisure Club, both of which are offering travel benefits to their members for travel on the Government's airline, Qantas Airways Ltd, or the Victorian Young Liberals Travel Grant Scheme? Have these organisations or their travel agents received requests for information similar to those received by ACTU Jetset Travel Service Pty Ltd? If so, when? 
-I think the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  did responsible government a great injustice in the end of his speech with the hysterical Country Party dogma about democracy and so on as he sees it. To represent a reduction in air fares as a threat to democracy and to paint the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions as being dishonest and hypocritcal are issues for which he will have to answer to the community. I do not think anybody believes him. I do not think he believes himself. But the jargon was there. The Opposition does not have to try to rescue the  President  of the ACTU, as the Minister would put it. What we want to concentrate on is the Government's discriminatory attitude in its rather blundering performance of last Saturday. The Minister posed a series of rhetorical questions but he did not explain away the discrimination he exhibited last Saturday in the raid on the headquarters of ACTU Jetset Travel Service Pty Ltd. 
I want to mark the significance of the date of the letter of 21 September. The Minister made constant reference to that letter. Because he did not receive a satisfactory reply to it he ordered in the storm-troopers last Saturday. But 21 September was also the day on which the Minister answered in this House a Dorothy Dix question on ACTU Jetset. In the course of that answer he sought to terrorise potential clients of ACTU Jetset into, not doing business with that firm. I wish to show that this was part of a pre-conceived plot. It was not something that happened by accident. Clearly it was part of a program laid down some weeks ago. Listening to the Minister was like listening to the old episodes of  Dragnet  starring Jack Webb- 'At 9.40 a.m. an officer of the Department of Transport and a Commonwealth Police officer arrived at the office of ACTU Jetset. They explained the meaning of the Air Navigation Regulations. They served a notice of requirement. Having served the notice of requirement they then departed the premises'. It is a pity Jack Webb was not here to portray the incident better than the Minister could. In any reasonable assessment of what happened last Saturday, it was a blundering, unnecessary performance and a clear exercise of political discrimination by a Minister who pleads the rights of democracy but practices the principles of partiality in support of those he wishes to advantage. 
Nixon's Raiders, as they have come to be known, in the terms of our statements today have caused damage to Australia's industrial relations by their unnecessary and discriminatory raid on the premises of ACTU Jetset last Saturday. As I have said, the action was unnecessary. I believe it was based to a large extent on the Minister's obsession with the trade union movement and his animosity towards the trade union movement. I have only to remind honourable members of how he managed not so long ago to ground our domestic airline fleet by bringing on the strike of the air traffic controllers. As well as that for several months now the Minister has exhibited an obsession for secrecy on aviation matters and an idelogical opposition to cheaper air fares. He talks about cheaper air fares, he promises cheaper air fares and he explains about cheaper air fares but he cannot provide cheaper air fares. There has not been one seat out of this country at a cheaper rate and there is not likely to be one at a cheaper rate for some time to come, irrespective of the statement of last week. 
Let us go back to the history of sub-regulation 106A, and its application in this country and whether there is a matter of illegality. Several months ago the Department of Transport sent letters to fifty of what was believed to be some 200 travel organisations which were offering travel subsidies. In those letters the Department warned the agents- to desist by 14 April. Widespread publicity was given to those letters sent by the Department. There has been no report to the Parliament by the Minister on that action. Widespread publicity was also given to what was being proposed by ACTU Jetset. The Minister could have asked for details of the proposal by ACTU Jetset from its staff. He did; but, as I said, on 21 September he was not prepared to ask again. He was not prepared to write a further letter. He was not prepared to do so because the whole thing was a plot. He was creating a scenario for moving in the storm-troopers- Nixon's Raiders. Many other organisations were offering travel grants but so far the Minister has acted in this way- in a public fashion with a great deal of hoorah- only against ACTU Jetset. To my knowledge only against ACTU Jetset has there been a pre-arranged Dorothy Dix question in the House. The only other area of discrimination and opposition to lower air fares has been against Australian Student Travel Service Pty Ltd. In that exercise the Minister used the same tactics. He terrorised the potential clients of AUS Travel, as he has sought to terrorise the clients of ACTU Jetset. He warned them that they should not travel and that seats might not be available. That, in the market place, is the same as terrorising in another place. 
The Minister says that seven organisations out of some 200 are being examined. What about the Australian Leisure Club which is owned by major oil and chemical interests? Why has he not raised a Dorothy Dix question on its activities? Why did he not include mention of that in the question of 2 1 September? Why did he not raise the issue of the travel grant of the Young Liberals of Victoria? The matter was raised at Question Time and the Minister said: 'We are looking at it'. The matter was not of sufficient importance to be raised in the Parliament by the Minister. Why did the Minister not raise the issue of the Newcastle United Leisure Club? The Minister had much to say a few moments ago about how he was responding to representations from the Australian Federation of Travel Agents but he made no mention of the Newcastle United Leisure Club which is represented in the travel field by a vice-president of AFTA,  Mr Jim  Jenkins. A report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 5 October concerning remarks made by  Mr Jenkins  stated: 
While he had always believed club subsidies were illegal, they had been going on for over two years and obviously  Mr Nixon  had found them acceptable or the Minister was prepared to ignore the law. 
So a vice-president of AFTA apparently goes ahead - 
The former  President  of AFTA goes ahead and participates in the same exercise on the basis that another office was being set up 200 yards down the street from him and he might as well be in on it. They are not  Mr Jenkins'  exact words but they are near enough to what is reported in the newspaper. Let us go back further. In November 1976 the Minister said to the Aviation Press Club that he was concerned about breaches of air fare discounting procedures and that he was concerned about regulation 106 A, the same regulation that we are discussing today. I put a question on notice on 5 April concerning breaches of regulation 106A. I asked: 
a ) have these investigations been completed 
The Minister said: 'Yes'. I then asked: 
have any individuals or organisations been charged with breaches of Air Navigation Regulation 106a 
The answer was no. I then asked: 
what was the nature of these breaches, and 
what has been the result of his Department's action in each case. 
Then came the essence of what this is all about and what Nixon's raiders on Saturday were all about. It shows the long plot. The reply is dated 3 June and reads: 
The cases involve a wide variety of practices believed to be contrary to the requirements of Air Navigation Regulation 106a. In a number of cases the airlines or travel agents concerned were prevailed upon to cease or desist. Other cases were passed to the Crown Law Authorities for consideration, however, certain evidentiary problems precluded prosecution. 
Who is the Minister trying to fool? What is happening in this case, as the Minister let out at Question Time when he refused to table the advice of the Commonwealth Solicitor-General, is that the advice contains the grounds of the action that he is proceeding to mount against ACTU Jetset in order to test the validity of regulation 106a. If that is what the Minister is about he could have been honest and frank. He has had an opportunity to deny the allegations; he did not do so at Question Time. He raised the matter by referring to grounds for action. He knows that the regulation is defective. He told the Parliament so. 
Why did he discriminatory select the ACTU travel organisation? We have to look at the wonderful effort of Nixon's raiders on ACTU Jetset. A dragnet was arranged and scheduled to start at 9.40 a.m. The Minister did not say that the officers set out to do this last Friday. We must bear in mind that the plan was developed on 10 October between the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  the Commonwealth police and officers of the Department of Transport, but they put the wrong address on the documents. After they set sail on Friday they found that the documents bore the wrong address. They had to go back and prepare new documents. That is the Minister's explanation for the officers having arrived on Saturday rather than on Monday when they might have found somebody there in a position of responsibility. 
The only construction that we can place upon the events of last Saturday are as follows: Firstly, they reveal the discrimination of this Government against the trade union movement and any efforts it makes to advantage the needs of its members; secondly, they reveal the Government's inability to administer in an evenhanded, proper and responsible way its obligations under bilateral arrangements with nations and with the International Air Transport Association; and, thirdly, they reveal the Government's blind and continuing opposition to the introduction of lower air fares. We have had statements on the matter and we had a false pregnancy last week. We have no clear indication of what the negotiations with other countries will provide. We do not know when cheaper air fares might be available. In the meantime Ministers of this country who are travelling at taxpayers expense do not see fit to travel on Australia's own airline, Qantas Airways Ltd. Ministers are swapping their travel warrants to Thai International. Other Ministers are cashing in their travel entitlements and travelling with Singapore Airlines rather than Qantas. If the Minister is concerned about Qantas and its loss of revenue he should ask his own Ministers to use Qantas. 
-We have seen the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  from time to time bleed in here on a wholly singular basis about the deprivations, disadvantages and hardships being suffered by service station proprietors. For heaven's sake, I wish he would be frank with the service station proprietors and bluntly tell them that he cannot get the support of his own colleagues in this place. At one stage, the honourable member for Franklin was talking about adopting the recommendations of the fourth report of the Royal Commission into Petroleum Marketing. We tended to support him on that but he has switched off that now. The Government has switched to another tack of blaming the Australian Council of Trade Unions for that not being implemented. The fact is that the honourable member for Franklin wants to say one thing in Tasmania about the problems of service station proprietors but votes with his head in his hands in another fashion in this place. I say to him: Please be frank because those men and women in the service station industry are suffering. They are bleeding as a result of the policies of this Government. The Government has turned its back on the hardships and the needs, particularly of sole proprietors of service stations. It is not enough for a back bench member to stand up in this place and try to get a bit of cheap publicity back home but to vote in a different fashion in this place. The honourable member for Franklin should be honest and should do something positive if he is sincere. 
I refer to the remarks of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  on air fares. He sought to present a case for the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I would have thought that the Minister for Transport was big enough, old enough and experienced enough to look after himself without the honourable member for La Trobe trying to put a case for him. The facts are that the people of this country are being denied and will be denied for some time yet the benefits and advantages of cheaper international air fares and cheaper domestic air fares because of the imcompetence, the bungling and the maladministration of the Department of Transport. 
Let me remind the House that a week after we announced last year that a future Labor government would carry out a complete review of aviation arrangements in this country the Minister jumped in and said: 'We will review domestic aviation'! How was it reviewed? It was not reviewed in a public fashion where the submissions could be tested and where the people making claims about services could be asked to support and to substantiate the claims they were making. Rather it was reviewed by a back door committee- an in-club arrangement- of the Department. It did not want to get the consumers involved and it did not want to get the airlines to come out in the open and say what they might do and what they could not do in the industry. We said that the Government should not look at domestic aviation by itself because it is inseparably linked to international aviation. Domestic aviation has a 10 per cent traffic flow-on from international aviation. We said that the Government should look at both aspects together and that they both should be the subject of one public inquiry. A few months later, on 1 1 October last year, the Government announced an inquiry into international aviation. If that inquiry had been public, if the government had come clean and if all the proponents of the various policies had been asked to substantiate their claims publicly we could have had cheaper international air fares. Now we have this sytem of total chaos, of confusion and deferred travel. This has arisen because of the manner in which the Minister for Transport has handled the whole issue. He does not deserve any credit. He deserves to be criticised for the manner in which he has handled the issue. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 14 September 1 978: 
1 ) Further to his answer to Question No. 376  (Hansard,  25 May 1978, page 2890) what funds have been provided in the 1978-79 Budget for works associated with Proserpine Airport, Queensland. 
2 ) What is the nature of these works. 
Were funds provided in the 1977-78 Budget for the airport fully spent. 
If not, (a) what was the reason, (b) were the excess funds carried over into 1978-79, and (c) what sum was involved. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry- 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Australian Wool Corporation will ship 1,000 containers of wool to Europe on the ABC container line vessel  Helen. 
Is the shipment of wool in accordance with any agreement which the Corporation has with the Australia to Europe Conference; if so, what are the specific details of this agreement. 
Is it also a fact that the Australian Wool Corporation did not consult formally with the representatives in Australia of the Australia to Europe Conference about the proposed shipment; if not, on what dates did the consultation occur. 
If no consultation occurred, what were the reasons. 
Was the Australian Government informed about the proposed shipments; if so, on what dates. 
Did the Commonwealth Government grant specific approval for the shipments; if so, when was approval (a) sought, and (b) granted. 
Is the Australian National Line a member of the Australia to Europe Conference; if so, would space have been available on ANL vessels for this cargo. 
What is (a) the total quantity of wool to be shipped and (b) the estimated loss of revenue to the member lines of the Australia to Europe Conference as a consequence of the shipment 
Does the Corporation propose to undertake any more shipments of this nature; if so, when. 
10) Is the Australia to Europe Conference or any other line given the opportunity to quote for the shipment of wool owned by the Corporation; if so, what lines were approached to carry the wool now to be carried on ABC lines. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek indulgence in relation to the space made available to members and staff within and outside this building. I think you are well aware of the very cramped, antiquated and disgraceful conditions which are available to some members of the Parliament. An example is the room which at the moment I occupy as a shadow Minister. Following the appointment of an additional member of staff, I have to fit three people into a room measuring 10 feet by 12 feet. I understand from inquiries I have made that there is no prospect of any additional space becoming available in the House. I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  on behalf of all members of this House who are in similar situations, to explore the possibility of space being made available to the staff and members of this House at either the former Hotel Canberra or the former Hotel Kurrajong as a temporary measure pending the development of other activities you have in mind. 
Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79 provides for expenditure of $31 1,581,000 by the Department of Transport in the performance of its responsibilities in the current financial year. I deplore the very limited opportunity provided by the Government to discuss the Budget. The second reading debate on this Bill was cut short, obviously in an endeavour to protect the Government from more stringent criticism of the inequitable provisions that the Budget contains. 
The honourable member for Bendigo did not want to speak. Many members on this side of the chamber were prevented from speaking because the debate was curtailed. In this discussion on the estimates of the Department of Transport, $3 11.581m, a bare 90 minutes is allowed; that is five speakers from this side of the chamber and four from the Government side, each speaking for ten minutes. The time provided is totally inadequate and makes a mockery of what once was intended to be an analytical examination of Government outlays in transport in 1978-79. 
I congratulate the Department of Transport on the effort it has made on this occasion to provide more detailed background information on proposed expenditures. The first explanatory notes provided to the Senate Estimates Committee ran to 78 pages. As if with foresight of questions to be raised the Department prepared a later set of supplemental explanatory notes to the Committee which increased the total to 103 pages. Much more pertinent information has been provided. I commend the Department and 
I suggest to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and to the chamber that another step forward would be to make a set of the explanatory notes available to all members and senators as soon as they are published. I think that that is in the interests of good government and the institution of Parliament. I commend the Department of Transport for the step it has taken. I think it has shown a lead. I sincerely believe that in the interests of Parliament we could have a more rational discussion if the information were made available to everybody. 
In brief terms, the total transport appropriation for 1978-79, while increasing in cash terms by $39.93m to $9 17. 16m, actually decreased by 3.3 per cent in real terms when compared with actual expenditure in 1977-78. Road funds will decrease by one per cent in real terms compared with 1977-78. The increased air navigation charges for commuter aircraft of 15 per cent, higher rentals for airport premises and added revenue of $7.7m from airline operations in a manner yet to be detailed, all superimposed on top of increased cost of fuel, mean that a further substantial increase in domestic air fares will occur this year. At last year's election $70m was promised by the Government over a period of five years to upgrade mainline railways. Only $3m is provided this year. This means that the remaining $67m must be provided over each of the remaining four years- that is, at a rate at least of $16.75m a year- if the promise does not join the long list of promises already broken by this Government. 
-Who woke you up? Already in the urban public transport area the major undertaking of the Government to provide $20m this year to the States on a needs basis has been deferred- to use the Government's euphemism. The $40m provided in the Budget represents a decline of 46.2 per cent in real terms compared with 1976-77. 
I return at this stage to aviation matters, in particular to the air safety situation. The Committee will recall the vigorous debate we had in this chamber on 16 August. In the course of that debate- this is recorded at page 356 of  Hansard-  the Minister said: 
There was no spokesman from my office, and there has been no suggestion that pilot error was involved. 
In this case the Minister was referring to a near miss at Brisbane. He continued: 
The honourable member for Shortland clearly does not want to believe the facts. He is prepared to say anything in order to get a headline and denigrate officers of my Department - and so it goes on. 
I am pleased the honourable member agrees. Subsequent to the Minister's statement I again checked and found that the reporter had checked not with one officer or spokesman but with three different officers of the Department. The Minister had to make an apology to the Melbourne  Herald.  I am glad that the Minister is happy about that. It is what he should have done. It shows the inaccuracy of what Government members, including a senior Minister, say. In that debate I made particular reference to general aviation and private pilots. I suggested at the time that one of the facts that had been put to me in previous weeks was that there had been a deterioration in standards of private pilot licensing and that this had contributed to the increase in the number of flying schools. The point was made that no chief flying school instructor would be too tough when business was quiet and competition was just down the road. If he did he would not stay in business. At that time I had no figures. Since then I have been able to obtain some from the Department. I seek leave to have a table containing those figures incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810183_53_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111131197810183_53_2.jpg"></graphic>

The Department, through the good offices of the Minister, has supplied me with some information. In the ten years to 1 978 the number of flying schools increased by 53 to 1 9 1- an increase of 38.4 per cent. The interesting thing is that Victoria, where the spate of incidents occurred recently, stands out alone in the rate of increase. In Tasmania the number of schools increased by 25 per cent. The number of schools in the Northern Territory remained stationary. In Victoria there was an increase of 1 12 per cent, from 25 to 53 schools. In Western Australia there was a decrease of 8.3 per cent. In New South Wales the increase was 8.5 per cent. There was no change in the Australian Capital Territory. There was an increase of 56.5 per cent in Queensland and 63.6 per cent in South Australia. 
I know that since the debate of 16 August the Minister has taken some positive steps to seek alternative sources of information on air safety. I hope that those steps will bear fruit. I hope the Minister will act in the same vein as he did in the debate. I would like him to examine the figures on private pilot licensing and give serious consideration, from the Opposition's point of view, to the introduction of annual licensing and examination of private pilots. I do not put that as a political point; I put it on behalf of the community. I think, from the information provided to me that grounds exist for this matter to be looked at. I put this to the Minister in the same vein as previously. I ask him to continue with his previous line of action and to look particularly at private pilot licensing. 
I turn now to domestic fare increases. I made the point in recent weeks that there had been a 27 per cent cumulative increase in domestic air fares in just over two years, with more to come. I refer the Minister to his statement on the July increase of 6 per cent. On that occasion he said that the increase in association with projected traffic growth was less than had been sought by the airlines, but because of the suggested traffic growth the 6 per cent was acceptable. He refused to say a word about the more recent increase of 5 per cent which he had reduced from the 7½ per cent application of the airlines. He has adopted an ostrich-like attitude. It was a farce when the airlines announced the fare increase. The Minister refused to announce it; the airlines had to announce it. The airlines could not say anything until the Minister approved it. The Minister knows that that is true. He can smile, but they are the facts. 
Let us be clear: It is the Minister's responsibility, and his alone, to approve air fares. He cannot abdicate that responsibility. Of necessity, the Minister relies on recommendations from the Department. I put it to the Committee that we need to examine the capacity of the Department to vet those applications. I do not believe that the Department has the manpower or the skilled personnel to carry out an analytical examination of all the operations of Ansett Transport Industries and Trans-Australia Airlines in the few weeks that are available to it from the time the fare increase application is lodged until the pressure comes upon the Minister to make a decision. In my view we need men who are skilled in the accounting world and in the private sector if there is to be a thorough examination. The Minister knows that under the air navigation regulations he has powers of complete access to all the records of airline companies and he should, in our view, establish a public justification process where those applications for increases are subject to the same public examination and justification as are applications for steel increases by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. This will get the monkey off his back and give the public the opportunity to see what resources the Department - 
-I am being kind to him. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
Will the Bureau of Transport Economics' investigation of the impact on urban travel patterns and modal choice of policy decisions by the Government on matters such as excise and sales tax, as mentioned on page 26 of his Department's 1976-77 Annual Report, result in a formal report to the Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport and I refer him to his main objection to the ACTU Jetset Travel Service Pty Ltd scheme, to his allegation that it is discriminatory and to the fact that there are over 200 other organisations and clubs currently offering travel grants and other travel benefits to their members throughout Australia. Will he in pursuit of his so-called non-discriminatory policy send the Commonwealth Police to investigate all of these other organisations to obtain evidence? In particular, is he now able to tell the House when the Young Liberal Movement in Victoria will receive its first police visit? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) When may I expect an answer to Question No. 204 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 23 February 1978. 
) Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 6 October 1977 as Question No. 1685. 
) What are the reasons for the 1 year delay in answering the question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) When may I expect an answer to Question No. 205 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 23 February 1978. 
Did this question first appear on the Notice Paper of 6 October 1 977 as Question No. 1 684. 
What are the reasons for the 1 year delay in answering the question. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) What is the nature of the experimental shipping information system developed by the Bureau of Transport Economics as mentioned on page 29 of his Department's 1 976-77 Annual Report. 
Has the experimentation stage of the project been completed. 
If so, does he now envisage implementation of the system. 
If not, why not. 
Did his Department undertake a review of the experimental stage of the project. 
If so, will the report of the review be made public. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
What evidence was presented to the Committee of Review on Domestic Air Transport which substantiates his assertion that paralleling of flights receives the most criticism. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 September 1 978: 
1 ) Have the fare arrangements offered by Australian authorities to European aeronautical authorities as mentioned on page 41 of his Department's 1976-77 Annual Report, been accepted by the European authorities. 
If so, what is the nature of those arrangements. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
What action has his Department taken to rectify aspects of its accounting procedures identified as unsatisfactory in the Report of the Auditor-General for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his Department given consideration to dividing itself into two separate divisions. 
If so, (a) what is the nature of the new structure under consideration, (b) what prompted the move, (c) on whose direction is the move taking place, (d) what consultation has taken place with the Public Service Board, (e) what has been the outcome of those consultations and (f) when will he announce the nature of the Department's new arrangements. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Have any workload studies of the Melbourne Flight Service Centre been conducted since 1 January 1 976. 
If so, what did the studies reveal. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Have any aircraft owned by (a) TAA and (b) Qantas been returned to their manufacturers for inspection due to breakdowns in equipment since 1 January 1976. 
If so, what was the outcome of the inspection for each aircraft. 
3 ) What is the present whereabouts of each aircraft. 
Were any aircraft withdrawn from service as a result of the inspection. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his Department cancelled the transfer of special Flight Service Officers from the Department's Victoria/Tasmania Region to other Regions; if so, (a) how many officers were concerned and (b) to which Regions were the officers to have been transferred. 
If not, (a) how many officers will be transferred to other Regions and (b) to which Regions are they to be transferred. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport: Has a review been carried out of the staffing and performance of the airport engineering branches of his Department? If so, can he say whether the review has been completed and whether the findings of the review group were most critical of the Department's performance in this area? What action has he taken to implement the recommendations of the review and will he table the report for the benefit of the Parliament? 
-This Bill amends the principal Act, the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977, so as to provide an additional $33m to the States in each of the years 1978-79 and 1979-80 for road construction and maintenance purposes and increases the minimum quotas to be expended by each of the States from their own resources in those years for similar purposes. Schedules 1 to 10 of the Bill detail the categories of road works for which the grants are being made to the States in each year, while Schedule 1 1 specifies the State quotas for the same periods. A further provision in the Bill updates the reference in the principal Act to the Transport Planning and Research (Financial Assistance) Act 1977. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill but will be taking the opportunity this debate offers to highlight the inadequacy of the funds being provided and the damaging effect this will have on the road construction and road transport industry, together with the inflationary and inequitable impact the Government's fuel pricing policies announced in the Budget will have on motorists. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said in reference to the principal Act that in allocating grants for 1977-78 the Government's priorities were to ensure that the road needs of local authorities were covered adequately and that emphasis was maintained on the funding of a national road network and rural arterial roads. They are admirable objectives and the Opposition supports them. What is at issue are the road needs of almost every second Australian- that is everyone who owns a motor car- and the road transport industry. This Government, by raising fuel taxes, is boosting petrol prices by 16c per gallon this financial year, thus reaping a windfall gain of about $772m in 1978-79. This addition to revenue is not being provided to meet the needs of motorists and the transport industry. It is being diverted to other uses to which I will turn later. 
The inadequacy of road funding provided in the principal Act is to be maintained by the $33m allocated in this Bill. The disparities between the road categories and the deprivation of funding for Victorian provincial cities such as Ballarat, Bendigo and Geelong is to continue because of the low financial priority accorded motorists and the transport industry by the Government. In regard to the Stuart Highway in South Australia, the switch of the adjustment amount in this Bill from national commerce roads to national highways so as to enable $ 1 m to be spent on the highway in 1 978-79 is a rather transparent attempt to cover up the repudiation of the Government's specific election promise made in Alice Springs on 25 November last year that specific funds in addition to the funds provided to the South Australian Government as part of the national program would be made available for the Stuart Highway. My colleague, the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  will deal with this in more detail later in the debate. That promise has been repudiated. The South Australian Government proposed as early as November 1977 that Sim should be provided for Stuart Highway construction this financial year. 
In relation to the increase in State quotas prescribed in Schedule 1 1 of the Bill, the Minister expressed his pleasure at the fact that a number of States have exceeded their quotas by significant amounts in recent years. I think I should draw to the attention of the House some material prepared by the Bureau of Transport Economics for 1976-77. Whilst the conclusions drawn on percentage expenditure above quota by each of the States will not be precise because of" the slight difference in the definitions used by the BTE and the Department of Transport for the purposes of the Act, the figures themselves are an adequate guide to the effort made by the States to boost their expenditure in excess of the quotas prescribed in the road legislation. For the year ended 1 976-77, New South Wales exceeded its quota by 46 per cent; Victoria by eight per cent; Queensland by 60 per cent; South Australia by 44 per cent; Western Australia by 40 per cent; and Tasmania by 134 per cent. As I said earlier, these figures are only a rough guide but they provide clear evidence that the States are trying to pull their weight in the provision of road funds. We accept the Minister's statement of pleasure at the expenditure in excess of quota by the States as a confession that he recognises that the States are doing something from their own resources. 
I contrast the statement in his second reading speech with his earlier outpourings against the States' needs for road funds when he was abroad recently. Firstly, his comments overseas, in my view, were quite improper for a Minister of  Her  Majesty's Australian Government. Secondly, they were unpatriotic. Thirdly, they were in direct contrast to his statement in introducing this Bill. But the Minister has an established record of railing against internal Australian political policies at international forums. In addressing the annual conference of the Australian Road Transport Federation in New Zealand on 25 September, having referred to the $33m being provided by this Bill, he referred to the States. We should remember that the State governments are sovereign governments in this nation with their own rights. The Minister said: 
Once again we are having an annual bleat from the State governments claiming the need for additional road funding from the Commonwealth. 
He went on to criticise the States for their priorities in road funding and urged increases in State taxes on motorists and the transport industry. Such remarks are in order within Australia but not at transport forums abroad. In my view those remarks indicate an appalling lack of judgment on the part of the Minister. It is clear from the Budget that this Government has declared open war on road users. The Minister wants the States to join in that war. In the New Zealand address the Minister referred to what he called the States' repeated whinging about road maintenance charges. He went on to claim that the charges were a mockery. The imputation from his remarks is crystal clear. He wants to see road maintenance taxes and charges increased substantially. He wants to see a much higher level of enforcement in the collection of those charges. 

 His reference to the limited amount raised by the States on registration and other charges carried with it the obvious implication that the Fraser Government, by limiting road funds to the States, is seeking to bring about an increase in motor vehicle registration charges and taxes together with an increase in motor driving licence fees. That it is all very well for a Government which practises a policy of coercive federalism. In essence, what is happening under the policy of federalism is that the Government by starving the States of funds is seeking to force them into other areas of revenue collection so that they incur the odium for the collection of that revenue and the Federal Government can then attempt to claim that it is reducing federal charges. Fortunately for motorists, to date the States are resisting this aim of the Fraser Government. 
When the Minister introduced the principal Act in this House on 15 September last year he went to pains to stress that the annual indexation grant to be made available to the States would be sufficient at the very least to maintain in real terms for 1978-79 and 1979-80 the $475m which was being made available for 1977-78. He referred to the use of the national accounts implicit price deflator for private investment in other building and construction areas as a means of determining the adjustment grants. He said:   the proposed indexation arrangements will provide a guaranteed minimum. 
He went on to say that the actual increase each year would need to be finalised in the light of the overall budgetary and economic situation. Given that the Department of the Treasury is ripping off from motorists, from every operator-driver, or owner of a motor vehicle in this country, an extra $772m this year as a result of the Budget decision to increase petrol prices by 16c per gallon, one would have thought that this was a most opportune time for the Government to provide additional funds for roads. But that is not the case. The amount being provided for roads as a result of this adjustment, compared with the consumer price index for the year is a drop of one per cent. Using the implicit price deflator it may very well tie in with what the Minister said in his speech to the House last year. But the point I stress is that if in a year in which a government is reaping a windfall of an additional $772m from motorists and it cannot see fit to increase the funds it is making available for road construction and maintenance, particularly in areas where safety hazards are involved, obviously there will be no stage in the life of that government when it will be able to make additional funds available for road purposes. 
In the debate last year on the principal Act the Opposition warned that if the Federal Government genuinely intended to make funds available on an increasing scale during the triennium it would have written into the Act the method of adjustment. That was not done. The impression was given by the Minister that at the very least, using the implicit price deflator, funds would be made available for road construction and maintenance by way of grants to the States. This year the Budget forecast of receipts is $26,057m. It is not that the Government is short of money for road funding. It is not that it is not conscious of the very important works that need to be carried out on roads. It is simply that the Government's priorities are out of kilter with the feeling of the rest of the community. It is simply that the Government's priorities lend it to squandering massive amounts of money, in many ways on personal extravagances and in many ways on priorities that do not really meet community needs. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I think you will recall the answer given this morning by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to a question relating to the Government's $40m program to purchase either two 149-passenger Boeing 707 jetliners or two 120-passenger Boeing 727-100 jetliners for the Prime Minister's use abroad and in Australia. Every motorist, every householder who has a pothole in front of his home or has to traffic a dangerous corner or to drive through an intersection that needs traffic lights or who just cannot have a road at all, as is the case in many respects with the Stuart Highway, will be looking at the priorities of this Government. They will be recognising the priorities. 
As I said, an amount of $26,057m was collected by government this year. The amount of money to be provided for road construction and maintenance will not increase in terms of the consumer price index. In fact, the amount will decrease by one per cent. That is in accordance with the Government's record on road funding since the change of government. If my recollection is correct, last year the reduction in real terms in road funding provided by the Government was of the order of 4 per cent, measured in terms of the CPI. This year a further reduction of one per cent has been made. In 1975-76 the share of gross domestic product going to road construction and maintenance was' 0.612 per cent. In 1976-77 the allocation dropped substantially to 0.538 per cent. I do not have available to me any later figures than that, but the trend is very clear. The Government is interested in collecting money from motorists- they are open season- but the Government is not giving motorists priority and shuffling back to the States adequate funding for the proper construction and maintenance of roads. 
I refer, as I did earlier, to the priorities of the Government. Every pensioner who owns and operates a motor car is conscious of the fact that the price of petrol is skyrocketing. For every low income earner who lives where there is not a public transport service, every unemployed person who lives where there is not a public transport service and has to use a motor car, every person in a country town who does not have access to some form of public transport and has to use a motor vehicle, the increases in the fuel tax and the increases in petrol prices simply constitute a reduction in their standard of living, imposed upon them by this Government. I contrast those factors again with the priorities of VIP aircraft; the VIP jaunts to the opera costing $3,000; $8,000 dinner sets; a quarter of a million dollars spent to modernise and luxuriate the Lodge and the latest absolute extravagance of all- as I said, the indecent extravagance - 
-For the benefit of the honourable member for North Sydney I repeat what I said and contrast those factors with the latest indecent extravagance of more than $60,000 each for high speed, imported, sleek, luxurious limousines. What are they for but to transport the Prime Minister around? Apparently the Long Tom Chrysler we bought for him is not good enough. That is down in Melbourne. Apparently the Ferraris which he gets for free here in Canberra are not good enough and the exemption that is granted to him - 
Yes, he does a lot of travelling. We have noticed that. Unfortunately for Australia, most of it is done overseas. That indicates the priorities. The people who are out of work and people, such as the pensioners who have just lost their six-monthly pension adjustments, will see - 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
Which are the 10 to 15 regions in Australia where television reception is of the poorest quality. 
-The purpose of this Bill, the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill (No. 2) 1978, is to authorise that Commonwealth guarantees be made in respect of overseas borrowings by Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd to enable the purchase of its tenth Boeing 727-200 passenger aircraft. The guarantees are to be limited to $US 11.12m or its equivalent, which represents 80 per cent of the estimated total cost of the aircraft and its associated equipment. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech touched on a range of issues, including the recent review of international civil aviation policy. I want first to speak on several aspects of domestic aviation policy before returning to the Government's proposals for cheaper international air fares. Whilst we agree with the Minister's comment that Australia's airlines are making a significant contribution to the development and welfare of our nation and have an air safety record equal to the world's best, there are fundamental differences between the approach of the Opposition to civil aviation and the approach of the Government. 
Firstly, the Opposition believes in a frank and open approach to the development and administration of Australia's aviation policy. If the public is to have the best possible air services this country can provide and if air travellers are not to continue to be disadvantaged in terms of the price and frequency of air services, there has to be an end to the private club of bureaucrats and air service operators which determines air fares and schedule frequencies in this country. Secondly, consumers must be given a role in the decision making procedures of aviation policy. Thirdly, there should be a process of public examination to authorise increases in domestic air fares. 
Since December 1975 we have seen a succession of secret inquiries into Australia 's aviation industry. The Bland review committee examined the two government airlines, TransAustralia Airlines and Qantas, and the Hewitt committee investigated the cost recovery program in aviation. Despite industry pressure, neither committee's report was made public. The reports have not been published because both were highly critical of the performance of the air operations divisions of the Department of Transport. Later, a committee chaired by  Sir James  McNeill of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, inquired into the operations of the Government transport enterprises, including TAA and Qantas. Again its report was pigeonholed. An inter-departmental committee investigated the provision of aerial services in the Northern Territory. Its report also was kept privy to the Minister, even though the  Chairman  of Directors of Connair Pty Ltd, a company which was the major subject of investigation, was able to quote extracts from the report to a public meeting in Darwin. Recently the Government has presented to the public two reports on domestic air transport and one on international civil aviation. It has called for another review of domestic general aviation services. 
The separation of domestic air transport from international aviation and the secrecy with which the Government has shrouded its inquiries into Australia's transport industry are symbolic of the Government's chaotic and ad hoc approach to aviation matters generally. Originally the Minister refused to give an undertaking that the reports of the reviews of domestic and international civil aviation would be released, and it was only mounting public hostility about airline fares and services that forced him to release part of the reports. Yet he still refuses to release the submissions made to the reviews on the spurious grounds that they contain confidential commercial information. There would be little difficulty in eliminating those sections of the submissions that fall within that classification. Apparently there has also been an investigation into the operations of the airports division of the Department, the report of which is critical of the Department's performance and competence. That report also has not been released, and it was obvious from the Minister's answer at Question Time last Thursday that he was unaware of the inquiry and the results of that review. Might I say that the report of that inquiry trenchantly criticised the management, performance, and under-utilisation of qualified personnel within those branches of the Department. Earlier this year serious public concern developed at the deteriorating standards of air safety in Australia. In the face of documented evidence produced to the contrary, the Minister sought to deny that air safety was a problem. Now it seems that it too was the subject of further investigation within the Department of Transport. On an earlier occasion I welcomed that examination of the subject because of the view of the Opposition was that the serious nature of the matter was above the politics of this chamber. I still make the point that despite the Minister's denials earlier in the year, at least the Department and the Minister are now looking at the subject, I hope in a proper way. 
In short, aviation policy in Australia is in a shambles. It is in a shambles because of the bungling and the incompetence of the Minister for Transport and because, I believe, at times he has not been provided by his Department with completely factual information. The uncertainty, the public anxiety, the chaos and confusion surrounding air travel could all have been avoided if, as the Opposition has repeatedly contended, there had been one all-embracing public review of aviation policy. The truth would have been ventilated and the interests of Austraiian air travellers better served. No government today would support a proposal that the various consumer affairs tribunals be abolished or that consumer protection laws be repealed. Yet this Government has consistently rejected the proposal that there is a role for consumer participation in aviation. In spite of the Government's opposition to the Prices Justification Tribunal and the various attacks it has made on the role and function of the PJT, it has not been so politically foolish as to abolish it completely. In the same way there is a need for public justification procedures for commodity price increases sought from the PJT, so there is a need to satisfy the public that air fare increases sought by the airlines are warranted, especially when we consider that the domestic airline industry has an annual turnover approaching $1 billion. 
Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries occupy a privileged position in civil aviation under the terms of the two-airlines agreement. Accordingly, it is essential that a community which already views domestic air fares as being unnecessarily high and riddled with anomalies should have the opportunity publicly to scrutinise proposed fare levels. This should include examination not only of proposed fare increases but also of basic fare structures. The Bill before us is to provide a Commonwealth guarantee to Ansett Transport Industries to borrow $US1 1.12m abroad. Yet it is astonishing that the Minister in his second reading speech said not one word about the recent financial position or operating results of either TAA or Ansett; not one word about capital invested, profitability, level of borrowings, or funds available; not one word on liquidity levels, sales, profit ratios or results of airline-related activities. There is not even a hint of the controversial acquisition by each airline of car rental companies, despite the fact that the Avis acquisition was challenged by the Trade Practices Commission and despite the continuing public controversy over the tenders called for airport car rentals concessions by the Government recently and what I understand are the latest moves to amend that tender. 
The Minister made the important observation that whereas Ansett needs to borrow abroad, Trans-Australian Airlines will be able to finance the purchase of its equivalent aircraft from internally generated resources. The Parliament and the public should be given a full explanation of why this is so. How is it that one airline needs to borrow money abroad with public guarantee, while the other, apparently, is in a strong liquid position. I make the point that each airline has recently acquired, or is in the process of acquiring, car rental companies. This situation only reinforces the need for public justification procedures when fare increases are sought. It is obvious that the Department of Transport does not have an appreciation of the detailed assetliability ratios and the liquidity position of the airlines. If it had made an analysis of the ratios and the liquidity position of the airlines, relevant comments would have been written into the Minister's speech. 
The clear lack of investigation and analysis of the airlines' financial positions by the Department of Transport appears more serious when we refer to clause 6 of the Bill. We should realise that the Minister referred to in clause 6 is the Treasurer as distinct from the Minister for Transport, but as I will point out later, the Minister for Transport has equivalent powers under the Air Navigation Regulations, I think Regulation 106 is the relevant one. Clause 6 of the Bill states: 
For the purpose of the protection of the financial interests of the Commonwealth, the Treasurer shall not give a guarantee under section S in respect of a borrowing unless- 
the Treasurer is satisfied that the terms and conditions of the borrowing are reasonable; 
Paragraph (e) of clause 6 states: undertakings to the satisfaction of the Treasurer are given that, so long as the amount borrowed, or any interest on that amount, remains unpaid- 
officers of the Australian Public Service will have full access at all reasonable times to the financial accounts of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Proprietary Limited when authorised in writing by the Minister for that purpose; 
Paragraph (f), the blanket provision, states: such other conditions as the Treasurer thinks necessary are fulfilled. 
It is the Minister's responsibility to explain to the Parliament why essential financial information has not been provided. It is also his responsibility to explain why Trans-Australia Airlines has sufficient liquidity to finance its purchase in what we are told are times of economic hardship for the airlines, when there has been a reduction in the rate of airline traffic growth and when it has been put to the public that it is necessary to increase domestic air fares. It is up to the Minister in these circumstances to explain why it is necessary for one airline to borrow abroad, to incur the costs of borrowing and the risks of changes in the exchange rate and why the other airline is able to make major equipment purchases from internally generated resources. 
The Melbourne  Age  on 28 September 1978 reported that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd made a record profit of $ 18.35m. My understanding is that in the financial year recently concluded Trans-Australia Airlines had a better financial result than in the previous year. However, on that same day the  Sydney Morning Herald  carried a front page headline 'Ansett says fare rise is inevitable'. One month later, major newspapers featured a story which stated that Trans-Australia Airlines wished to withdraw from country air services in Queensland. In light of these reports, is it any wonder that the public and the media think that there is something wrong with domestic air fare structures in this country? Is it any wonder that they think the whole system is anomalous and that they are not given a fair go? On the one hand, the airlines report record profits and the newspapers report that fare rises are inevitable. A few weeks later it is reported that services are to be withdrawn from Queensland. Consideration should be given by the Government and by the Minister to the Minister's responsibilities under the Air Navigation Regulations to ensure that services are provided where they are needed. If there are economic circumstances that justify some diversion from that position, it is the Minister's responsibility and the Government's responsibility to put those facts before the public. Again, as it is the Minister's personal responsibility under the Regulations to approve increases in air fares, he should tell the Parliament what is happening in the financial affairs of Australia's two major domestic airlines. He has access to the relevant information under his regulatory powers. 
On an earlier occasion I questioned the quality of fare justification inquiries by the Department of Transport. Following this Government's cutbacks and reduced staff ceilings, I do not believe that the Department of Transport has sufficient accounting personnel who have detailed knowledge of commercial operations in the private sector to examine thoroughly and adequately the financial data provided by airlines when fare rises are sought, particularly in the very tight time scale that is provided to the Department. I say that in fairness to the Department. It is up to the Government and the Minister personally to tell us something about the depth of that examination procedure. Something on this subject should have been written into the Minister's comments. As I said earlier, I do not believe that an intensive study of a basic fare structure has been made since the change of government in 1975. We have noticed that in just over two years domestic air fares in this country have risen as a direct result of this Government's administration and policies by 27 per cent in cumulative terms. The return economy fare between Sydney and Perth now costs $447.60. Between Melbourne and Cairns the return economy fare is $391.20 and between Brisbane and Hobart it is $292.40. Clearly, the Government's policy is to price air travel so high that it is beyond the reach of the vast majority of Australians and will be confined to the privileged sectors of the Australian community. 
The only result of the Government's tinkering and toying with reductions in domestic airfares has been the stand by and adherance purchase excursion fares systems of ticket purchase. Whilst both are welcome, they are only superficial attempts to defuse criticism of the Government's high air fare policy. Stand-by fares are, in effect, a sop to criticism of the Government's policy and they are no substitute for more realistic fares that embrace certainty of travel. The point to be made at the conclusion of the initial trial period is that the price of fares has risen by 16% per cent. It is rather interesting to note that it has been reported: 'Stand-by fares to be extended', when really the headline ought to have been: Stand-by fares increased by one-sixth'. I can only try to envisage the number of stand-by fares that are likely to be available to Australians over the Christmas holiday period. 
I emphasise the point that stand-by fares provide no certainty of travel. What has to be developed is a regime of air fares that widens access to air travel. How do we raise load factors generally? How do we get the cost of the industry down? How do we get better utilisation of the capital invested in the industry? I have touched on these points before. I come back to the point that I was making earlier in my speech: Why is it that one airline has to borrow abroad and another can fund a major equipment purchase from its own resources? Surely there is a component in that borrowing abroad- in the exchange rate variation and interest charge involved- that must be added into the fare structure as a whole? That cost has to be borne by domestic air travellers. 
That is the kind of information that the public and the Parliament need to know. I do not have it. I would like to have it. 1 stress that point to the Minister. That is the kind of information that needs to be brought before the Parliament. Is there justification for borrowing abroad? Is there a better utilisation that could be made of the capital investment of the airlines or is the position, as has been put to me from time to time, that it is not difficult to create a position in one set of accounts to show a liquidity defficiency that justifies borrowing abroad with public guarantee? They are the points that have to be answered by the Minister and the Government. 
Our air fare structures in Australia have reached such absurd levels that, as some Western Australians have recently pointed out, in the near future it may well be cheaper to fly from Perth to Sydney via London than it will be to fly from Perth to Sydney direct. Some Government members may laugh at that but some people are seriously contemplating travelling that route. The problem is that this Government is committed to an airline policy that was designed for the needs and aspirations of an earlier generation. In contrast, the Opposition is committed to the objective of making air travel as accessible as possible to as wide a range of the Australian community as possible. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I wish to deal with our international civil aviation policy. Public anxiety, confusion and frustration at the level of international air fares have been brought about by the Government's dishonesty and its misrepresentation of the issues involved. The Minister deliberately and repeatedly encouraged the public to believe that Laker Airways would soon be operating to Australia. He did so with the knowledge that Laker Airways had to receive the approval of the United Kingdom Government to fly to Australia before meaningful consideration could be given to any submission from Laker and that Laker did not have the United Kingdom Government's approval to operate to Australia and was not likely to receive such approval. 
The distinguishing feature of the Government's international civil aviation policy to date has been its complete failure to reduce international air fares and the thwarting of each Australian's right to lower international travel costs. After 18 months of procrastination, stalling and obsessional secrecy we are still waiting not merely for the introduction of reduced fares on the Kangaroo route but for an announcement as to when the fares will be reduced. What has not been pointed out to date is what will be the effect of the Government's proposals under the suggested new fares. Current off-peak, shoulder and peak excursion fares for Sydney to London and return of $ 1,000, $ 1 ,200 and $ 1 ,300 respectively are to disappear. In other words, immediate purchase excursion fares will disappear under the new proposals. There will be one immediate purchase economy fare of $1,450 to operate all year round. This will mean significant fare increases for people who have to travel on an immediate purchase basis with minimum and maximum stay conditions. 
Under the current system of immediate purchase with a minimum stay of 2 1 days and a maximum stay of 270 days, people travelling from Sydney to London pay $1,000 return if they travel in the off-peak months of February, October and November. Under the proposed fare regime they will pay $1,450- a jump of $450. People travelling from Sydney to London in the shoulder months of January, March, August and September will be paying $250 more than the current fare of $1,200 return. In the peak months of April, May, June and July the increase will be $150. 
In his speech on 1 1 October the Minister compared the one-way excursion fare of $695 with his proposals for the new advance purchase excursion fare. But under the Government's proposed system this fare is to be eliminated, and the single economy fare of $725 one-way is to operate. 
My remarks relate to what was contained in the Minister's statement. I do not know whether it has been changed. Has the statement been changed? 
-I am happy to hear what the Minister has said. I hope he is able to shock me. We want to see fares brought down to as low a level as possible. My comments are based upon the Minister's statement. It may be that he has revised that statement. I will be happy to hear him say so later in his reply. As I said, we want to see air fares brought to as low a level as possible. If that is what the Minister is going to tell us I will be happy to hear it; I will welcome it. 
These increases will be especially hard on those people who have to travel overseas suddenly to visit friends or relatives in the event of bereavement or illness. This applies particularly to former European nationals now resident in Australia. The much publicised fare of $568 for Sydney to London and return is to be available for only three months of the year- October, November and February- and then with a prepayment of 45 days in advance. The Australians to benefit from this fare will be those who can plan and pay for their travel 45 days in advance and who will be willing to travel to London during the European winter. 
On the Pacific scene this week's AustraliaUnited States negotiations provide the opportunity for a substantial reduction in AustraliaUnited States air fares. The tourist potential offered to Australia by lowered air fares should be a primary consideration in the talks. Expanded access to United States cities for Qantas Airways Ltd could increase tourist traffic to Australia and raise the airline's load factors. If as has been mooted- I suspect that the stories have come from within the Government's own organised leak machine- a second United States airline is to be granted access to Australia for an experimental period precise guidelines must be established to permit its operations. My understanding of the leaks coming from the Government side is that a second US operator is only contemplated at this stage. 
It would be intolerable if Australians were to be subjected to the same confusion and inaction on Pacific air fares as has occurred on AustraliaUnited Kingdom air fares. The strong possibility now is that, unless resolution is reached soon with the United States, Australia will miss the additional tourist traffic out of the United States generated as fares to other south-west Pacific destinations are lowered. Obstinacy and prevarication by the Minister for Transport on Pacific air fares will likewise continue to penalise Australians who wish to visit the American continent. Ridicule and intimidation- irrespective of which side of the Pacific they come from- are no substitute for sensible negotiation, even if it is the traditional Country Party style of doing things. 
In conclusion, the Minister for Transport has a responsibility to see that the benefits of lower international air fares are made available to Australians as soon as possible. He will assist public understanding of the complexities involved in negotiating the necessary new bilateral aviation agreements by being candid, honest and straightforward with the public on the issues involved. As indicated earlier, I am sure the Australian public will appreciate any later information the Minister can give us. The Opposition believes there is a substantial capacity for reductions in international air fares, that those reductions will be to the overall benefit of the community and that they could have and would have been available earlier if the issues involved had been handled by the Government in a more proper and responsible manner. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
Further to his answer to question No. 1395  (Hansard,  1 2 September 1978, page 894) in respect of the firms listed in part 1 (b), (a) what specific materials and goods were supplied by each of the firms listed, (b) what was the cost of each item and (c) what is the present location of each item. 
Were tenders called for the supply of each ofthe items purchased; if not, why not. 
If tenders were not called what was the manner of purchase. 
Under which Budget item is shown the expenditure for the items purchased. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement on page 267 of the 1978 report of the Auditor-General that the Auditor-General's office had highlighted certain deficiencies in this Department's internal audit reports but little action had been taken to effect remedies and improve procedures and that advice of remedial action proposed was requested from the Department but had not been received at the date of preparation of the Auditor-General 's report. 
If so, has his Department now advised the AuditorGeneral's office of the proposed remedial action and what was the specific nature of the advice conveyed; if not, what is the reason. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon Notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
When will Part 2 of the report of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review commissioned on 3 July 1977 be released. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
On what occasions were his Department's aircraft used for VIP travel during 1977-78. 
On each occasion (a) what journeys were undertaken, (b) for what purpose were the aircraft made available, (c) who were the passengers and (d) which aircraft was operated. 
Where does. the amount $36,509 referred to in the 1978-79 estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet as having been paid to his Department appear in his Department's current estimates of revenue and expenditure. 
Has the Prime Minister authorised Government Ministers who travel abroad on Government business at taxpayers' expense to arrange with international airlines for cumulative credits to be granted against unused intraAustralian sector travel and then have the accumulated credits converted for use on intraAustralian travel by persons other than the Minister or his staff? If not, will he investigate attempts to introduce this practice by his Ministers? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each private company operating a railway line in Australia. 
What is the location of each of the lines. 
For what purposes are the lines used. 
Which companies receive any assistance from the Federal Government for the operation of a line and what assistance was provided in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article published in the  Nation Review  of 1 8 August 1 978 concerning a pilot 's report of faulty navigational aids at Sydney Airport on 7 June 1978. 
If so, what action has been taken to establish the accuracy of the report. 
Was the pilot's report in fact correct. If so, what action has his Department taken to correct this fault at Sydney Airport. 
-The purpose of the Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill 1978 is to provide for an increase of 15 per cent in air navigation charges payable by all domestic aviation operators from 1 December 1978. The increase in charges is expected to yield an additional $2m in revenue in the current financial year. It should be noted that the increased air navigation charges will not apply to international airline operators. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage) Would the gentlemen in the broadcasting box please make sure that the amplification is correct? I think it would be made a lot easier for honourable members to hear the honourable member for Shortland if there were less audible conversation in the House. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech described the Bill as a machinery measure. Whilst this may be true in strict legalistic terms, the services to aviation for which air navigation charges are payable go to the very foundation and structure of Australian air passenger and air freight services. This debate thus provides an opportunity to examine in some detail the cost recovery program of successive conservative governments, the range of services provided to the aviation industry by the Department of Transport, the level of utilisation of those services by the various air service operators and the provision of the two airlines agreement in relation to Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines. The Minister stated in his second reading speech that this financial year $2m is the expected addition to revenue resulting from the increased air navigation charges that are provided for in this Bill. This figure appears to be in conflict with information provided in the statement he released on Budget night relating to anticipated aviation revenue collections for 1978-79. On page 7 of that statement the Minister stated: 
Growth in international air traffic is expected to yield an extra $2.1m while additional revenue from general aviation and commuter aircraft is expected to increase as a result of higher air navigation charges by $200,000. 
He went on to state that traffic increases in the domestic trunk airline sector and rural airline sector would produce a $1.3m increase in revenue. No reference was made in the Minister's second reading speech to the amounts detailed in that statement and I have been unable to reconcile the details of his Budget statement with the figures mentioned by the Minister in his second reading speech. The Budget statement showed also $7.7m as the amount of increase to be earned from domestic trunk airlines and rural airlines, but no detail was provided of how that $7.7m was to be collected, except that it was stated that it would result from the Government's move to full cost recovery in those sectors over the next two years. There are obvious discrepancies between the Minister's Budget statement and his second reading speech on this Bill. In view of the seriousness of the subject and of the severe impact that increases in air navigation charges have upon the aviation industry, particularly when reflected in high domestic air fares, I ask the Minister: At the conclusion of this debate, or as soon as convenient, will he provide the Parliament with a detailed reconciliation and explanation of the information on air navigation charges revenue included in his Budget statement and his second reading speech? 
The Government when in opposition, particularly the present Minister for Transport, made great political capital of the cost recovery program introduced by the Australian Labor Parry Government during 1972 to 1975. The real difficulties with cost recovery arose because a conservative government, having written into the two airlines agreement of 1958 a clause providing for full recovery by the Commonwealth of the cost of facilities properly attributable to civil air transport, did nothing to implement that policy, nor did successive conservative governments, with the result that the percentage of recovery of costs in 1972-73 was 49.6 per cent. The effect of this was that civil aviation in Australia was allowed to develop on a false cost structure. Attempts by the Labor Government in 1972 to 1975 and since 1975 by the present Minister for Transport to increase the rate of cost recovery have caused unforeseen difficulties for the industry. 
Table 1 1.1 of the first report of the 1978 Domestic Aviation Policy review shows that total costs for the provision of civil aviation facilities rose from $58.531m in 1968-69 to $207.414m in 1976-77. The rate of recovery rose from 43.6 per cent in 1968-69 to 61.2 per cent in 1975-76 and dropped back to 58.3 per cent in 1976-77.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  table 1 1 . 1 to which I referred. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) Which Government agencies or Departments prepare an index of  Hansard; 
What is the form of each index; 
How recent is each index; and 
To what persons, Departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
2 ) If so, ( a ) what was the substance of the submission and ( b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence on a matter relating to the accommodation in the building for members. 
-This is a straightforward piece of legislation, its purpose being to put beyond doubt the authority provided to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  under the principal Act, the Qantas Airways (Loan Guarantee) Act1978, to guarantee overseas borrowings by Qantas Airways Ltd to finance the purchase of its sixteenth and seventeenth Boeing 747 aircraft. It appears that some difference of opinion arose as to the legality of the guarantee originally provided because, initially, Qantas funded the purchase of the aircraft in question from its internal resources and the proceeds of the loans are to be used to reimburse its internal funds. The Bill, then, removes any doubt as to the legality of the use of the overseas borrowings and the Opposition does not oppose it. 
Qantas Airways Ltd is an important Australian industry owned by the Australian people. It has a world-wide reputation for its high quality of operation. These are the words of one of its staunchest opponents,  Sir Freddie  Laker. 
What I have to say is that Qantas, notwithstanding the excellent airline that it is, and let's be frank about it, it is par excellence, it is one of the finest airlines in the world . . . 
That was the comment of  Sir Freddie  Laker, a worthy competitor of Qantas. With that kind of world reputation, I would have thought that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  would have had something to say in his second reading speech about the financial performance of Qantas; that he would have been more forthright during the overseas air fare controversy by stressing that initiatives for the negotiation of new bilateral agreements for air services must come from government. These agreements have almost the status of treaties, hence it is not a matter of an airline negotiating with a foreign government. The negotiations must be between governments. Instead, I believe that the Minister, to mask his own inability to conclude successfully negotiations for cheaper air fares, has allowed Qantas in a number of ways to be portrayed unfairly as the barrier to the introduction of cheap airfares. 
The reason for the Minister's attitude towards Qantas lies within Government ranks. It is within those ranks that there have been resolutions at State level and Young Liberal Council level showing that there is a deep ideological opposition to Qantas as a publicly-owned transport enterprise. They would like to sell it off to someone. They do not say who. Accordingly, there is strong opposition in Government ranks to any action that may reflect credit on Qantas. This is a strange philosophy for the Government of an isolated nation, a nation which the International Civil Aviation Policy Review found, in its recent report, should, at least on defence grounds, maintain its own international airline. Even when travelling overseas at taxpayers' expense, some Government members are loath to use Qantas, but I will return to that later. 
Last week, in speaking to the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill, I stressed that, in the view of the Opposition, where public guarantees for loans were being sought by airlines the Parliament was entitled, when the loan guarantee authorities were being legislated, to a report on the financial performance of those airlines. We have not been told anything of Qantas' performance in the recent year. It is eight months since Qantas ' financial year ended, yet its annual report has not been tabled. The only information available is what can be gleaned from newspaper reports and some preliminary information from Qantas. In our view it is scandalous that the annual accounts of Qantas have not been presented. It illustrates once again the lackadaisical and contemptuous attitude of the Government towards the interests of air travellers. 
A brief examination of the information that is available shows that Qantas operates to 34 countries. It handles 185 flights a week in Australia. For the year ended 31 March 1978 it carried 46 per cent of passengers departing Australia by air. It employs more than 13,000 people. I would be interested if the Minister could advise us at some later stage of the indirect component of employment. I do not know what ratio would apply, but certainly it would be a fairly high figure. The total revenue of Qantas for 1976-77 was $564. 121m. As I have said, the figures for 1977-78 are not yet available. We do not know what the gross revenue of Qantas was and certainly the Opposition does not know what its profit result was, but we can say that Qantas made a net contribution of some $21 lm to our balance of payments. That is the figure that remains after taking into account the expenditure of Qantas overseas. 
Its load factor in the same period, to March 1978, was 59.8 per cent. Of the passengers that were transported out of Australia across the Pacific, 66 per cent were Australians and 22 per cent were Americans. On the Kangaroo route to London, 76 per cent of the passengers carried were Australians, 10 per cent were from the United Kingdom and Ireland and other passengers represented smaller less significant percentages. I believe that public appreciation of the problems of operating airline services, both domestic and international, is limited because of the failure of the Government to provide adequate and up to date information on these subjects. 
I mentioned the annual accounts earlier. I turn briefly to the actual operating features of our international airline. Air travellers properly expect a high level of service punctuality; that is, that aircraft arrive and depart on time. Qantas has a punctuality target of 65 per cent; that is, according to the strict definition reaching destinations within 15 minutes of scheduled times. Many factors influence the achievement of this rate. These include airport congestion, bad weather, airport curfews, unexpected industrial disputes, aircraft defects and even the operations of government authorities as some people have often experienced with immigration controls abroad. All these factors can create delays. 
In 1975 prices, the cost of operating a Boeing 747B on the Sydney-London service return was $A400,000, which meant that a 12-hour delay, say, at Singapore would negate the profit potential of the whole trip. If overnight accommodation had to be found for 400 passengers the cost could run as high as $A 18,000 in direct outofpocket expenses. The punctuality rate of Qantas has climbed from just under 50 per cent in 1974-75 to just below 65 per cent in 1977, despite all the obstacles. It is worth noting that, in early 1975, delays were costing Qantas in the vicinity of $A900,000 annually in direct outofpocket expenses without considering lost revenue that could occur from delays. This was reduced by better management and maintenance procedures to $345,000 in 1976-77. 
Another key element in operational efficiency is the utlisation rate of aircraft. An examination of the utilisation rate of the Qantas fleet of 13 Boeing 747 in 1975 showed that all the aircraft- 100 per cent of the fleet- were in use at least 10 hours out of 24 hours, that 70 per cent of the fleet was in use for 1 1 out of 24 hours and 50 per cent of the fleet was utilised for almost 12 hours out of 24 hours. Compare that with the world scene. Of the total world fleet of 308 Boeing 747Bs, leaving out the three which operated for a period of between 12 to 14 hours out of 24, the remaining 305 aircraft were utilised at rates well below that of the Qantas fleet. 
Qantas is a publicly owned transport enterprise operating in a difficult international environment Its shareholder is the Australian Government. Therefore, it is always under the control of the government of the day. Its financial directive comes from the government of the day. When cheaper airfares are negotiated with other governments again that is at the duty of the government of the day. Ultimate responsibility lies with the Government, not Qantas. I emphasise that Qantas is not a statutory corporation; it is a private company registered under the Queensland Companies Act. I mentioned earlier that Government members were loath to travel on Qantas. I extend that to include some public servants who travel abroad at taxpayers' expense in the performance of their duties. I find it alarming that people who travel at taxpayers expense prefer to use overseas airlines instead of their own nation's airline. The question I ask is: Where is their spirit of nationalism, their pride in Australia and their concern for our balance of payments position? 
Obviously some people are prepared to trade their national identity for the 'free wine' of an overseas airline as was put to me by a Qantas employee some months ago. I think that is fair comment. Treasury direction 6/10 requires that public servants going abroad must travel by Qantas unless- this is the device used- available Qantas flights do not coincide with departmental requirements. Without going into the detail of the direction, the first alternatives are to fly by airlines with which Qantas pools revenue, and so the direction goes on. The device that is used to circumvent Treasury direction 6/10 is first to check the Qantas timetable and then arrange the overseas schedule for times when Qantas services are not suitable. It is a very easy exercise. This abuse of Treasury direction 6/10 by people travelling abroad at taxpayers' expense currently adds approximately $lm to the revenue of foreign airlines operating out of Australia. I believe that this abuse of Treasury direction 6/ 10 is a national disgrace and that the Government should enforce the requirements of that direction. 
The spurning of Qantas by public servants going abroad only mirrors the action of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and some other Ministers, certainly not the Minister for Transport, who also prefer foreign airlines to Qantas. On a number of occasions in the past the Prime Minister has travelled by Singapore International Airlines, SLA, on his overseas safaris, ostensibly because it provides sleeperette seats. I do not know whether it has anything to do with the Singapore syndrome. The Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  is also well known for his preference for travelling by SLA. Recently yet another Minister sought to transfer his travel entitlements from Qantas, our own national airline, to Thai International. It is little wonder that the Prime Minister has refused to provide information to the Parliament by way of answers to questions on notice about overseas travel by Ministers, the costs involved and the airlines on which they travel. 
I move to a comparison of fares for the Australian sectors of international travel with domestic fares. The House will recall that the international civil aviation policy review made a recommendation that unused capacity on Qantas flights on outward bound journeys across the Australian continent could be used for domestic travel fulfilment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member for Shortland will proceed. 

-Through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that interjection is most uncharacteristic of the honourable member for Lilley. We on this side of the House suggest that the Government ought to be taking this matter up with the domestic airlines in a more vigorous way. Without having access to the information that is available to the Minister in confidential submissions, it appears that the proposition that Qantas be used both ways across the Australian continent is worthy of consideration by the domestic airlines and certainly by the Minister in giving leadership. I refer to a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 28 October 1978 headed 'Saving of $90 return. Qantas puts Perth fare cut plan.' The report indicates that in its proposal Qantas has informed Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia that return air fares between eastern State capitals and Perth could be reduced by more than $90 return if passengers were allowed to use Qantas jumbo jets. I know that the argument that was put to the review was that the outward bound Qantas aircraft departing from eastern ports, could with their punctuality rate be expected to leave on time but because when they returned on the inward bound journey to the west coast they were at the completion of a  2Vi  day to 3-day cycle the chances of a lapse in the punctuality rate would be greater. 
I think it is worth considering that if the price is right, if some sort of advance purchase fare proposal was put by the domestic airlines, and if they took Qantas 's unused capacity at a marginal rate- this is fairly predictable on eastern and western traffic across the continent- it would provide some net increase in revenue to Qantas. It would provide a wider range of departure and arrival times between east and west. As I said, if the price were right on an advanced purchase basis, I am quite sure that people would be prepared to accept an element of uncertainty on the west-east journey given that when delays occur on the return journey to Australia, if one takes the last departure point as Bombay, the delay is telegraphed ahead. It is not something that suddenly happens prior to the aircraft leaving the last point of departure and returning to Australia on an eastward course from the west. Information could be transmitted ahead to Perth to advise passengers that a delay was to occur. I think that even though there could be a lesser level of reliability of departure dmes for that west to east service, the matter is still worth looking at with the objective of improving the service between west and east and vice versa. 
The fares for Australian sector travel on international airlines are much cheaper than on domestic airlines. The public, understandably from its point of view, see this difference as an imposition on domestic air travellers. Let us look, for example, at the first class return fare between Sydney and Perth. The fare charged by domestic airlines is $5 12. However, if one purchased a first class Sydney-Perth-London-Perth-Sydney ticket the total cost would be $2,946. If one did not utilise Sydney-Perth-Sydney sectors, the credit available for that unused travel would be approximately $220. This means that the international sector fare component for SydneyPerthSydney is about $220 and a traveller in those circumstances could claim a credit for $220 from the international airline. However, people who are travelling at taxpayers' expense could not transfer that credit or accumulated credits to domestic airlines for use on intra-Australian travel for non-governmental personnel as a Minister has been seeking to do recently. Last week I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  whether he had authorised this practice by Ministers, this attempted misuse of public moneys, but he avoided answering the question. 
You know the answer as well as I know the answer. 
You know the answer. I will ask the Minister - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I remind the honourable member for Shortland that he appears to be straying fairly substantially from the Bill. I hope that his remarks will be directed to substantiating the proposals in the Bill. 
The Bill deals specifically with Qantas Airways Ltd. I have compared the difference between intra-Australian travel by international airlines and domestic airlines. I used Qantas as an example. The Qantas fare is the same as any other international airline fare. I have shown that if one buys a SydneyPerthLondonSydney ticket the credit that would be available for the unused Sydney-Perth-Sydney sector is about $220. In conclusion - 
-It is not a scurrilous attack. If the honourable member for St George does not know the answer, he should ask the Minister. I should not have to explain what the Government is doing. I call on the Prime Minister to table in Parliament this week the warrants issued this year to Qantas for ministerial travel overseas, the credit slips from the airlines for any unused Australian sector travel and the details of the airports at which Ministers boarded international aircraft for departure for overseas. As I said earlier, the Bill removes any doubt about the legality of the principal Act passed earlier this year- the Qantas Airways Ltd (Loan Guarantee) Act. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
What payments have been made by his Department to individual aircraft operators in the Northern Territory for the provision of postal services during each year since 1 962. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his Department claimed that the new control procedures introduced at Parafield Airport, SA, on 1 1 August 1978 involving the simultaneous use of left and right hand circuits, will achieve a better rate of utilisation with an improved margin of safety. If so, what it the basis for the claims. 
Is it a fact that these procedures will intentionally place aircraft approaching for landing in a conflicting traffic pattern giving rise to an increased risk of mid-air collision. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
How many accidents involving general aviation aircraft occurred in Australia during (a) each of the last 7 years and (b) the period 1 January 1978 to date. 
Of the accidents investigated, how many have been attributed to (a) pilot error, (b) physical causes, (c) technical defects, (d) servicing faults, (e) inaccurate weather forecasting and (0 unknown causes. 
3 ) How many accidents were fatal. 
Of the pilots involved, how many held (a) a private pilot's licence, (b) a commercial pilot's licence, and (c) a senior commercial pilot's licence. 
5 ) How many of the pilots involved held a current instrument rating. 
In how many of the accidents which occurred in adverse weather or weather suitable only for IFR flights were the pilots involved holding only (a) a private licence or (b) a licence not endorsed for flight in instrument conditions. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and ( b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 978: 
How many special flight service officers has his Department employed for Tullamarine Airport during the periods (a) 1 January 1976 to 1 January 1977, (b) 2 January 1977 to 1 January 1978 and (c) 2 January 1978 to date. 
Is this number adequate to meet the general staffing requirements of Tullamarine. 
Is this intake of special flight service officers adequate to meet the current staffing requirements of Tullamarine Airport with respect to ( a ) recreation leave and ( b ) sick leave. 
If the current intake is inadequate, what action does he propose to take to rectify the situation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Do the domestic airlines record statistics relating to the origin and destination of their passengers. 
If so, are those statistics made available to his Department and will he make them available to the Parliament. 
If these statistics are not recorded, are the airlines developing procedures for their derivation. 
If procedures are being introduced, was this at the request of his Department. 
If procedures are not being introduced, what are the reasons. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
During what hours are aerodrome rescue and fire fighting services provided at Essendon Airport. 
What is the standard of these services at the various times. 
What type of aircraft movements occur during these times. 
How many aircraft movements occur (a) during and (b) outside the periods in which rescue and fire fighting services are provided. 
Are simulated engine failures permitted at Essendon in association with pilot training and endorsement procedures. 
Are formation take-offs (a) permitted and (b) performed at Essendon Airport. 
Is there a policy on the maximum growth in respect of flight traffic for Essendon Airport; if so, what are the details of the policy. 
Does this policy limit the future development of jet traffic at Essendon Airport. 
What is the procedure for rescue and fire fighting services in the event of an aircraft crashing upon take-off or approach at Essendon Airport if the aerodrome rescue and fire fighting services are not available. 
10) Is it planned that helicopter pilot training services are to be instituted at Essendon Airport 
What are the technical reasons which would exclude freight operations presently conducted at Essendon Airport being conducted at Tullamarine Airport. 
-My grievance today concerns the hypocrisy and double standards of the Fraser Government. On one hand it calls on the Australian community, State and local governments to exercise economic restraint. On the other, it engages in a program of squandering the taxpayers.' money in the lavish indulgence of the whims and fantasies of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for high speed imported limousines and luxury jetliners for his constant safaris abroad. The latest seasonally adjusted figures put unemployment in this country at 422,000 persons, an increase of 34,000 since February this year, the month when the Prime Minister said that unemployment would begin to fall. The true level of unemployment in this country is in the vicinity of 650,000, much higher than the figures themselves show. 
The Minister at the table says Come on'. If he talks to people and moves around the community, he will find that the people who have dropped out of the work force are not the concern of this Government. It has a totally callous attitude towards the people who are out of work and the people in this community disadvantaged by the harshness and brutality of its policies. It is all very well for Ministers on their salaries to sit in luxury in Canberra and pontificate about the needs of the unemployed. The inflation rate is locked into 8 per cent. The Government is quite happy to think only about inflation and ignore the needs of the unemployed and the socially disadvantaged. Yet, in the three years of this Government the Prime Minister has found the money to make 12 international safaris. It was the Prime Minister in his policy speech in November 1975 who said that Australia did not need a tourist for a Prime Minister. I am sorry,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  we have one. 
Let me refer to the $65,000 spent on hotel bills in New York last recess. Let us hope with all the sincerity of honourable members in this chamber that there be no repetition of the extravagance of the Prime Minister and his entourage during the approaching recess. Even the  Australian  newspaper, that well known advocate of the Government's causes, was moved on 9 June 1978 to write an article headed 'An extravagant touch'. It referred to the use of Concorde aircraft by 19 members of the Prime Minister's entourage across the Atlantic. An additional $2,500 was spent to give those people the thrill of being able to say that they had travelled in a Concorde. There was the charter of personal jets for use by the Prime Minister abroad. I will not go into that long list. It is already on the record. It is no wonder that the Government has consistently refused to provide information on the cost of overseas travel for its Ministers. It is no wonder that it persists in hiding the true costs of those exercises among the estimates of the respective departments. After 18 months of questioning and probing we are still not sure of the extent of expenditure on overseas travel by the Government. On 26 August, the  National Times  was moved to write about an unpublicised Federal Cabinet decision that tightened the requirements for Government Ministers travelling abroad. The article stated: 
We understand that the new measures were taken after a well-travelled Liberal minister approached Thai International Airlines to try to use his travel entitlements to take his wife with him on a trip of which only part was official business. 
The Cabinet decision was to tighten the rules so that members seeking to use their air travel entitlements must make their bookings through the Australian airline, Qantas Airways Ltd. That is a responsible and proper decision. It is only proper that people travelling abroad at the taxpayers' expense should use our nation's own airline. I turn now to the other side of the coin, the set of double standards of this Government and the blitz being waged on low income earners by the Taxation Office at the behest of this Government. I mentioned last week three instances in my own electorate which were brought to my attention. A young unemployed girl trying to find work received a bill of over $50 from the Taxation Office. She wrote and asked for time to pay $5 a week from her unemployment benefit. The immediate response from the Taxation Office was: 'You must pay forthwith. Your application is refused.' There could be nothing more callous and brutal than that, one would think. 
The Minister at the table said: What nonsense. ' I deplore the standards that he applies. The letter was sent out over the signature of  Mr Gray,  the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales. If the Minister is not responsible, it is time he did something about it. The honourable member for Wentworth should not bleat about him carrying out his instructions. The next case was that of a man who became sick. He was off work for six months. He found that he owed over $300 to the Taxation Office. Again, he offered to pay $5 a week from his sickness benefit. Again, the reply from the Taxation Office was 'Payment forthwith'. The next case was that of an invalid pensioner in a similar situation. It was brought to my attention yesterday in correspondence from the Sydney area. This is an example of what the Government is about. The invalid pensioner, a retired employee of the Public Transport Commission in New South Wales, owed the Taxation Office just over $100. He sought time to pay and was told to pay forthwith. He had to borrow the money from a finance company. Those are the double standards that I am trying to point to in this debate. 
How do we contrast those standards with the tax avoidance schemes being operated by the leaders of the Government parties through the use of family trusts? What a disgraceful set of standards. Those at the very top of this nation are taking advantage of tax avoidance and minimisation to reduce their proper responsibility to pay income tax. The sick, the unemployed and the aged in this country are forced to pay immediately. They have to go to a finance company to borrow the money. That indicates the absolute callousness and brutality of this Government. This is the Government which sought to abolish the funeral benefit, a paltry $20 given to the families of people who leave this life. It was given to help pay for their burial expenses. Can anyone think of a more immoral move than to rob families of that amount? The Budget went one step further. The Government tried to steal money from the pockets of children. It sought to put a means test on the children's allowance. The public outcry against both those measures, led by the Opposition, forced the Government to backtrack. 
However, the Government succeeded in reducing the maternity benefit, an allowance brought in in the 1940s. Its specific purpose was to help young Australian couples building a family to meet the initial impact on household expenditure when a child was born. The Government managed to cut back that allowance. Where will that money go? It will help to pay for the Boeing 707s and the high speed imported cars. The Government tried to take money from people when they leave this life. It tried to take money from them as children. Having failed in those moves, it is now taking money from people when they are born by reducing the maternity allowance. Where will all the money go? What is it being used for? I say to this House and the Prime Minister that in the name of decency the Government should abandon this mad proposal to spend $40m of the taxpayers' money to buy two luxury long range 120-passenger Boeing 727 aircraft to take the Prime Minister and his entourage abroad. As he cannot find such aircraft, he has gone even further. He has tried to buy 149-passenger Boeing 707 aircraft. For heavens sake, where is the decency and the morality of this Government? What set of priorities does it have? 
They are the facts. The Minister is uninformed, as usual. To me and, I am sure, to the average man in the street this $40m program and the hunt around the world to buy these aircraft is a gross indecency and a gross abuse of taxpayers' money. I ask the Government to abandon that proposal. I ask it also to abandon the proposal to purchase two imported high speed limousines designed in Israel and helped to be built by Fiat, Cadillac, Mercedes Benz and Rolls Royce. I am told that they are waterproof, soundproof, bulletproof, even smellproof. There is no justification for spending taxpayers' money of the order required on those cars. If the Government wants more cars, it should buy Australian made cars. I am told by the media that the cars are the subject of a Dnotice. That is a gross impropriety and a misuse of the powers of a D-notice. 
-I said smellproof. The Minister will probably need it. Those cars are the subject of a D-notice. That should not be the case. There is no need for that kind of lunacy in security measures in this country. I ask the Government to abandon both these proposals and to spend the money instead to help pensioners. If the Government purchases two 707 aircraft abroad they should be named 'Pensioner One' and 'Pensioner Two'. At least there would be some identification of where the money had been taken from and the priorities of this Government in extravagantly spending money on luxury imported airliners for which there is no reasonable justification would be identified. 
-The bungling incompetence and blatant political dishonesty of this Government is nowhere more evident than in its failure to introduce lower international air fares. After almost two years of public discussion and frustration at the Government's efforts to reduce international air fares, not one person has been able to travel overseas at the lower air fares suggested by various proponents or promised by the Government. If from the outset the Government had been candid and honest with the Australian public in its deliberations on international air fares the Opposition believes that lower air fares could have been introduced sooner, the enormous public anxiety over international air fares could have been avoided, and the Australian tourist industry would not have been damaged by people deferring their travel plans. This up-in-the-air policy mess, as it was described recently by the  Travel Trade  magazine, has been created by the total inability of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to grasp the complexities of negotiations involved in reducing air fares, especially in relation to developing new bilateral agreements for international air travel. Added to that has been the alarming lack of frankness and constant and confusing changes of attitude by the Minister for Transport towards the new proposals. 
On the second last day of sitting of this session we have yet to receive from the Minister a precise schedule of lower international air fares and a firm timetable for their introduction. Over the past 1 S months the Minister has pursued a course of deliberately misrepresenting proposals for reduced air fares. After actively encouraging Laker Airways to submit a proposal for the operation of services to Australia, the Minister reversed his stance and rejected the Laker application. I hold no brief for Laker, but by encouraging Laker Airways the Minister not only raised public expectation that substantial fare reductions were possible but he also raised expectations that they would be available soon. The sole achievement of the Government to date on air fares by overt action has been to order a raid on ACTU-Jetset Travel Service in an attempt to prevent some six million people having access to cheaper travel. The raid can be described only as one of blatant political discrimination. Let me quickly recall the Minister's record in his attempts at reducing air fares. On 25 August 1977 he told the Parliament that he: 
. hoped  Mr Laker  would make a submission on cheaper air flights to and from Australia. 
On 12 October 1977 on the  AM  program he told the interviewer, Geoff Duncan, whilst dismissing the need for a public review on aviation: 
What the public will be able to evaluate is what conclusions the Government comes to and that's the important thing. 
Here again he was exhibiting a total disregard for public interest. Since then he has shown nothing but contempt for the mounting public concern about air fares. In the same interview, when asked if cheaper air fares might result, he responded: 
I'm sure that there will be cheaper fares somewhere along the line, yes. 
What a firm indication and statement from a Minister who knew what he was about and who knew what was involved! His reply was a further illustration of the priority that this Government has accorded the reduction of international air fares. The Minister confirmed his support for the Laker proposal when he told the House on 16 March this year: 
Having had discussions with  Mr Laker  about his proposal, I have said publicly many times that I am greatly in sympathy with the suggestions he is making about low cost fares. 
Can we discern when the Minister really expected that the new fares would be introduced? In an  AM  interview early this year he said that there would be changes in air fare structures before the middle of the year. Six days later, on 24 January, he told the  AM  reporter in London, Tim Clarke, that he could not put a timetable on cheaper international air fares. One month later the  Sydney Morning Herald  reported him as stating on his return from overseas: 
Cheaper fares would become available within 5 to 6 months following the Report of the ICAPR- 
That is, the International Civil Aviation Policy Review- due on 31 March. 
By the middle of this year the Minister had shifted his ground again. On 23 June 1978 he told the  Sydney Morning Herald  that he hoped to announce a new policy by the end of June. Earlier he had said that he hoped that new fares would be available to travellers as a Christmas present. This was despite his advice to Australians on 9 June that they should not delay their travel plans and, if they proposed to travel in the next few months, they should go ahead and make their arrangements. On 16 June the  Australian  reported the Minister as saying that he was still hoping to introduce cheap air fares on the London route before Christmas. On 1 1 October 1978 in his statement to the House on the Government's aviation policy he said that some of the new fare scales would operate early next year. We have heard similar statements from the Minister recently following the Government's belated action to negotiate cheaper Pacific air fares. 
The whole saga of the Minister's handling of the issue has been episode after episode of conflicting statements and amazing ineptitude. Clearly, from the outset the Minister did not understand the complexities involved in the air fares issue, nor apparently did he take the trouble to apply himself to the task- that is, until about eight weeks ago. This is highlighted in two ways. When speaking on the  AM  program from London on 24 January 1978 and when questioned on the timetable for the introduction of cheaper fares he said- I quote from a transcript of the interview; we should remember that this was a statement by Australia's Minister for Transport, who ought to know what he is talking about when abroad: 
Well 31 March is the timetable for the report to come to me from the International Review Committee, government will need to consider that, there will need to be consultations with the British Government at this end- 
Then these dramatic words were uttered- and perhaps other interested airlines and perhaps government . . . 
It is incredible that the Australian Minister for Transport would go abroad to negotiate international air fares and not be clear about or understand what the processes were- that we might have to talk to other governments and to other airlines. These are not our charges; his own words which are documented make that charge. He ought to have known then that new bilateral arrangements would have to be entered into when Australia made any adjustments to its international civil aviation policy. Quite clearly he did not know what was involved. Governments initiate negotiations with other countries, not airlines. It is not strange that more recently the Minister has been saying: 'We need more time to complete these negotiations'? These are the negotiations which last January he did not know would have to take place. The Minister's 'bareback riding' approach to negotiations with other countries has presented Australia with foreign policy difficulties with member countries of the 
Association of South East Asian Nations. Quite obviously last year and earlier this year when the Minister was talking about international air fares he did not have any grasp at all of the difficulties that arise in the ASEAN scene. I need to remind the House of a statement in relation to ASEAN made by the Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  on 15 September, when he said: 
Australia's relationships and influence are being judged more directly by countries of the region in terms of our capacity to contribute to economic co-operation. 
Clearly, the countries of the ASEAN group see air travel as another commodity in international trade. Clearly complex, delicate, sensitive negotiations and compromises have to be entered into with those nations. Maybe later in the debate the Minister will tell us just how far he has got. In our view, by that 'bare-back riding' approach, that blunderbuss approach, that 'ride 'em in and shoot 'em down' approach, the Government and the Minister have delayed the whole process. As every day passes the Minister's promise of a Christmas present of cheap fares becomes more and more of an illusion. I was going to say that the Minister is like a Santa Claus without hair, but rather he is like a Santa Claus without a beard. Wanting to play Santa Claus is not good enough. He should be able to put before us a firm timetable and the precise fares before the House rises for the Christmas recess. However, only last month we saw in the  Sydney Morning Herald  a report of a statement by a spokesman for British Airways, who stated that there would be: 
. at least a six month delay before implementation of any new UK fares package had 'stunted' traffic with a drop in forward bookings and the airline unable to tap a potential market of 1 million Australians waiting to fly to London. 
That appears to be the public view of British Airways of what kind of timetable is involved. As I said earlier, the Opposition believes that the cheaper air fares would have been available sooner if the Government had taken a responsible and frank approach in its handling of the issue; if the subject had been handled with more competence and with a greater sense of responsibility. 
The proposed fare levels, as announced by the Minister so far, continue the Government's deception on the issue. Prominence has been given to the off-peak fare without highlighting the fact that the off-peak fare, when it becomes available on an advance purchase basis, will be available for the smallest period of the travel year. On the United Kingdom route the off-peak fare will be available for only 90 days in the year and that 90 days will be during the European winter. On the Pacific route it will be available for 16 weeks, a minor segment of the year. I ask the Government to reconsider its proposals in the light of the following: People who travel at short noticepeople who have a sudden bereavement overseas, a sudden illness in the family, or some sort of sudden emergency- will be penalised under the fare schedules outlined in the Minister's statement of 1 1 October. 
I refer briefly to those details. Under the immediate purchase excursion fare people can buy a ticket and immediately leave for a minimum stay abroad of 21 days and a maximum stay of 270 days. As that schedule is to be abolished, people will have to pay instead the new economy fare of $1,450 return or $725 each way. That means that during the off-peak months of February, October and November people will have to pay $1,450 return, whereas presently they need pay $1,000. In that class of fare and in those circumstances, the jump is $450 on the return fare. In the shoulder months of January, March, August and September the jump in return fare will be $250. In the peak months of April, May, June and July the increase will be $150 on the return fare. Those proposals, if they are to stand, will impose hardship, particularly upon those three million Australians who were not born in this country and who have close family and emotional links abroad. I believe that we have a special responsibility to people to see that they are properly catered for. 
The proposed fare regime also makes no provision for people who, because of illness or age, cannot undertake a long non-stop journey in an aircraft- people who, because of some kind of illness, cannot sit for 24 or 28 hours in an aircraft. Some consideration has to be given to those people as well. As I mentioned, there are also those people who have to travel at short notice and who are not within the group of three million people that I mentioned. Each of these matters needs to be considered. I ask the Minister to give some hope to the people in these categories. Because of the Government's incompetence in its handling of this subject and because of its failure to introduce low air fares, the Australian public has been denied the benefits of cheaper overseas travel. Unnecessary anxiety has been caused and the tourist industry has been thrown into chaos by the substantial amount of travel that has been deferred. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the Government's failure to introduce lower international air fares. I had pointed out to the House that this was because of the Government's incompetence and its bungling in the handling of the issue. Because of its failure to introduce lower air fares, the Australian public has been denied those benefits. The Australian public has been caused unnecessary frustration and anxiety and the tourist industry has been caused avoidable confusion and deferral of travel. In specific terms, the Minister for Transport is responsible for the sorry sequence of events that has occurred. It is understandable that he is now coming under criticism from people within government ranks. It is understandable that moves are being touted for his transfer from the transport portfolio and for his replacement by somebody who has a better undertanding and grasp of the complexities of the issues involved in aviation policy. 
The Opposition sees it as the Government's responsibility to set down clearly and categorically a time-table for the introduction of lower air fares before the House rises this week. It has a responsibility to inform the Parliament of its progress in negotiations with European and Asian countries and of developments on the Pacific front. Frankly, the Australian public is fed up with the promises made by the Minister for Transport. It is fed up with the fudging about lower international air fares. The Australian people want to see action and they want to enjoy the benefits that lower international air fares will bring to them and to Australia. It is not good enough for the Minister to present, as he did on 11 October, a catalogue of excuses as to why lower air fares are not available. He suggested that they may be available some time m the future. Because of that situation, the people of this country just do not trust this Government and they do not believe what the Minister says, particularly on the matter of international air fares. The Government is deserving of the strongest condemnation for its failure to make cheaper overseas air travel available to the Australian public. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce- 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
Did the Department of Social Security make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will the Minister release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
) If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and ( b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia "s International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and ( b ) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does the Department of Social Security or any agency under the Minister's control prepare an index  of Hansard. 
) What is the form of each index. 
) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, Departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and ( b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
1 ) Under what circumstances are the Minister's; (a) Department staff and; (b) personal staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of the Department of Social Security; (a) sought approval; (b) were granted approval and) (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers of the Department of Social Security or the Minister's personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1 978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (u) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
What is the margin currently operating between first class fares and economy class fares of the Australian domestic airlines. 
Is he able to say what is the margin currently operating between first class fares and economy class fares in (a) Canada, (b) the United States of America and (c) E.E.C. countries. 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation contained in Part 1 of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Report, dated March 1978, that a detailed evaluation should be undertaken which takes account of real resource opportunity costs with a view to determining appropriate fare differentials between the various categories of fare types. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
Did the Department of Education make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission, and (b) will the Minister release it for the benefit of the Parliament 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
Did the Attorney-General's Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
) If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will the Attorney-General release it for the benefit of the Parliament 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aiviation Policy. 
) If so, (a ) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
1 ) Under what circumstances are the Minister's (a) Departmental staff and (b) personal staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of the Department of Education (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from the Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory upon notice, on 2 1 November 1 978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did the Department of Administrative Services make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will the Minister release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 November 1976: 
1 ) What are the conditions of the existing aviation agreements between Australia and the United States. 
When were they negotiated. 
What are the terms of the existing agreements. 
What is the process for termination of the existing individual aviation agreements. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1 976-77, (ti) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
When and in what manner did he first become aware that the Leader of the Government in the Senate had telephoned the Chief Electoral Officer,  Mr Pearson,  in relation to the naming of electoral divisions in Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
What are the terms of reference for the 'Women in Transport' study referred to on page 74 of the Public Service Board's Annual Report for 1977-78. 
When was the study initiated. 
3 ) When will it be completed. 
4) When does he expect to release the study 's report. 
Has he received any reports from the study team to date. 
What is the name, classification and Department of each member of the study team. 
7 ) What Department chairs the study. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
What office space has been or is to be occupied by his Department in the Qantas Building Sydney. 
What is the (a) area of each office to be occupied, (b) total area, (c) annual rental, (d) cost of refurbishment and (e) cost of provision of furnishings of the accommodation proposed to be occupied. 
What is the classification of each officer of the Department of Transport who will be located in the office. 
What is the justification for utilising premises in the Qantas building in lieu of space in Departmental buildings elsewhere in Sydney. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 2481  (Hansard,  8 November 1978, page 2579), have any aircraft owned by TAA and Qantas been returned to their manufacturers for any reason since 1 January 1976. 
If so, (a) which aircraft were returned, (b) on what dates were they returned, (c) what is the present whereabouts of each aircraft and (d) what was the reason in each case for the return of the aircraft 
Were any aircraft withdrawn from service as a result of being returned to their manufacturers. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and ( b) will he release it for the benefit of Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Does the Department of Education or any agency under the Minister's control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
How recent is each index. 
To what persons, Departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
1 ) Under what circumstances are the Minister's (a) Departmental staff and (b) personal staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of the Department of Administrative Services (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from the Department of Administrative Services or the Minister's personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 7 November 1 978: 
1) When will he inform the Parliament of the Government's decision on the recommendations contained in Part 1 of the Report of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review. 
) When was the Review completed. 
Is the delay in his making such a statement due wholly or in part to any reluctance on the part of the major domestic airlines to accept those recommendations said to effect significant changes to the 2 airlines agreement 
Which recommendations have the airlines found difficult to accept. 
Will the Government pursue the implementation of those recommendations in the face of opposition from the airlines. 
asked the Minister for Transport upon notice on 1 6 November 1 978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
) If so, ( a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament 
s asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and ( b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice, on 16 November 1978. 
Did the Department of Science make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy? 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will the Minister release it for the benefit of the Parliament? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are the Minister's (a) Departmental staff and (b) Personal staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of the Department of Science (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (n) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from the Department of Science or the Minister's Personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (u) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
Does the Australian National Railways Commission envisage any increase in rail freight rates. 
Has ANR conducted any studies on the future freight rate differentials between rail and road transport 
If not, does it intend conducting these investigations in the future. 
-This Bill amends the principal Act, the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1978, and defers the allocation of $20m in 1978-79 and $5m in 1979-80 which would otherwise have been available under existing section 8. The $25m thus deferred will be included in the amended schedule to the Act for the final three years from 1980-81 to 1982-83. Honourable members will recall that the original legislation included provision of $200m at the rate of $40m per annum over the period 1978-79 to 1982-83. Allocations were to be made between the States as set out in the Schedule to the Act. Provision was made under section 8 of $100m at the rate of $20m per annum for allocation between the States on the basis of needs. The present Bill reduces the proportion to be allocated on a needs basis and increases the eventual allocation under the Schedule to the Act to a total of $225m. This amount will be distributed to the States in the same proportion as envisaged in the original Act. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill, but I foreshadow moving at a later stage an amendment outlining our disagreement with the Governments 's proposal. The substance of the amendment is that the proposed reduction in funds to the States will seriously disrupt the provision of improved public transport facilities and that this action is inconsistent with the development of urban public transport as an essential part of a national energy policy for Australia. The second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  contained two errors which, in the interest of the accuracy of the  Hansard  record, should be drawn to the attention of the House. Firstly, the Minister said that under section 8 $800m would be provided at the rate of $200m per annum. I am sure that that amount of $200m per annum should have been $20m per annum. I took the liberty of interpreting it that way a few moments ago. Furthermore, the Minister remarked that of the $75m still to be distributed according to needs, $15m would be available in 1978-79. As the point of this Bill is to defer any allocation on a needs basis this financial year, I assume that the Minister meant that these funds were to be handed over in 1979-80. The errors no doubt reflect the deep-seated malaise and low morale that exists in the Department of Transport under this conservative Government. 
The Minister stated in his second reading speech that 'wider Budget considerations' were responsible for the cutbacks since 1978-79 and 1979-80. Although the States have been promised the deferred funds later on, what guarantee do we have that this promise will be kept? Will it also be broken like so many others have been broken by this present Government? We recall the promise to retain Medibank, the promise to provide legal aid to those in need and the promise to creat jobs for all those who genuinely sought employment. During the 1977 general election campaign the Minister for Transport promised to provide $70m over five years for main line railway upgrading. This year the States are to receive a mere pittance of $3m for this project. This is far from being an encouraging start and it is certainly one that will not inspire the States to plan future transport improvements with confidence. It certainly will not give them any confidence at all that this Government is likely to honour its election commitments. There is no guarantee whatsoever that 'wider Budget considerations', as mentioned by the Minister, will not again force the Minister to amend this legislation next year, further reducing the funds originally promised. 
In a recent article entitled "The Budget and the Economy 1978-79', the  Australian Economic Review  remarked that the already gloomy expectations regarding the likelihood of economic recovery in the near future had to be revised in light of the current Budget. The article concluded: 
Thus we expect that on present policies, the economy will develop significant contractionary impetus during 1979. 
Again this is not an encouraging prospect for the States which are asked to accept lower funds in the light of these so-called 'wider Budget considerations'. Later in the Minister's second reading speech he stated: 
The 1978 Act therefore reflects this Government's support for urban public transport improvements. 
Let me remind the House that the Act introduced in April last year was a down-graded version of the Whitlam Labor Government's pioneer legislation of 1974. To date, every major project funded by the Commonwealth Government owes its origin to Labor's initiatives in urban public transport. This is no better illustrated than by reference to the Minister's own Press releases on urban public transport. On 3 September last, the Minister released a statement which read in part: 

 Mr Nixon said that the bulk of the funds going to New South Wales in 1978-79 would be used to continue the substantial assistance provided by the Commonwealth towards new rolling stock for the Sydney suburban railway system. 
The statement went on to say that signalling improvements at Sydney station and construction of the Meadowbank Bridge were 'substantially completed under the five year Urban Public Transport Agreement'. Similarly statements issued on 21 September of last year referring to Victoria and Queensland contain the implicit admission that no new projects had been approved. Funds to Victoria were for the acquisition of rail and tram rolling stock and for the completion of duplication of the Macleod-Greensborough railway Une, whilst those for Queensland primarily went towards completion of the cross 7 river link and suburban electrification- but only of the 
Ferny Grove to Dana line. All the projects approved by the Minister for Transport in 1 978-79, a statement admits, were commenced with Commonwealth assistance under the previous Labor Government's urban public transport assistance program. 
Obviously there are numerous projects in addition to those which would benefit from an injection of Commonwealth funds. The Macleod to Greensborough line is not the only route in Melbourne where duplication could enable faster and more frequent services. Many lines would benefit from the provision of a third track. Nor is the Ferny Grove to Darra line in Brisbane the only route capable of electrification. But not only has the Government not approved any projects other than those commenced under a Labor Government administration, but also it has presided over a progressive whittling away of funding for existing projects. Before the Australian Labor Party came to power in 1972 it committed itself to the support of urban public transport projects that would have cost, in round terms, some $500m. Under the 1974 Urban Public Transport Act, around $130m was appropriated by the then Federal Labor Government for the States' in 1973 and 1974 programs. The fact that the States spent only $79m on urban public transport to the end of 1975 was not a reflection on the then Federal Government, but rather a reflection on the non-co-operation of conservative State governments and the long lead in times involved for major urban public transport projects. Thus the comparison in the Minister's speech of the $300m provided for in the present Bill, the principal Act and the amending legislation before us, and that actually spent under the Whitlam Government's legislation is not a fair one. By mid- 1976 only about half of the New South Wales allocation had been spent- and this on a public transport system that had been chronically starved of funds. The present proposal looks poorly indeed when placed beside the $500m offered by the then Labor Government, and not much better when compared with the $334m hurriedly promised by the McMahon Government way back in 1 972. 
The $40m proposed in this Bill for 1978-79 represents a fall of $9m in cash terms over the 1977-78 level of expenditure. In real terms, this means a decline of 24 per cent on the allocation for 1977-78 and a massive decline of 46.2 per cent on that allocated for 1976-77. Under these circumstances, that any real progress is made by the States in upgrading their public transport systems is due to the extent that they have been forced to rely on their own resources rather than on any general recognition or generosity on the part of this Government. For 1978-79 the Commonwealth is making available to New South Wales the equivalent of only 6.76 per cent- less than 7 per cent- of what will be the total urban public transport spending by that State in this year. That does not take into account the large outlay that that State will incur in funding its public transport deficit. This Government usually attempts to justify the imposition of such a burden on the States by reference to its coercive Federalism' policies. When I spoke in the debate on the principal Urban Public Transport Bill in April of last year I criticised the retention by the Minister for Transport of control over the $20m per annum to be distributed according to need.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you may remember that at the time I made the point that it would put the Minister in a position of patronage, giving special treatment to 'favoured sons' among the States. But apart from the opportunity it afforded for patronage of favoured State governments by the Minister, it limited the States' ability to control the allocation of Commonwealth grantsand this Bill is evidence of the Fraser Government's abandonment of its undertaking for 1978-79 funding on a needs basis. 
The States, in consultation with the Commonwealth have made it clear that they want approvals for programs rather than projects and block grants with minimal Commonwealth involvement in the detailed administration of the schemes. Unfortunately also any provision for escalation of funds in line with inflation is still lacking. The Government has introduced a form of indexation of road grants allocations, but it has not seen fit to extend this provision to urban public transport funding. The Minister indicated to the States, in response to requests for provision for cost escalation, that the States could make estimates for cost escalation of projects and include these in their original estimates. I recall that during the debate on the principal Act in April of last year I asked that that matter be drawn to the attention of the Auditor-General because I believe that, under any system of proper and responsible administration, for the Minister to encourage the recipient States to inflate or to pad their urban transport proposals in expectation of some future rate of inflation and to present those padded estimates as being costs of the projects was not the way in which to handle public funds. I hope that the Auditor-General and the Department of the Treasury have had an opportunity to look at that matter. 
But returning to the funding provided under this amending legislation of the principal Act, it is evident that by the dme the States get thenfunding on a needs basis for 1979-80 to 1982-83, real purchasing power will be considerably less than it is today. Whilst inflation may have fallen somewhat, at a huge cost in human terms through unemployment and the effects of cuts in this and other areas of Federal responsibility, it is highly unlikely that anything better than a rate of inflation of 9 per cent to 10 per cent can be expected during the life of this legislation. The costs of this short-sighted miserliness especially in an area such as public transport where long lead-in times are typical are enormous. The Minister concluded his second reading speech with the words: 
This Bill maintains the Government's longer term support for urban public transport, while meeting the current need for financial restraint. 
That is utter nonsense. The Minister should be aware that, in transport investment, short term cuts have long term repercussions. History illustrates this well enough. In Victoria due to the perceived need for financial restraint during the years of the Great Depression virtually no money was spent on maintenance and capital replacement for the State railways. No new electric trains were contracted after the mid- 1920s. Following a further period of financial stringency imposed by the Second World War, systematic rolling stock construction was only recommenced in 1956. The result was degradation of the services provided and unnecessarily higher costs in implementing improvements when eventually those improvements and upgradings had to be carried out. Then, as now, if such a budgetary policy were likely to result in the nation's recovery from recession financial stringency would perhaps be easy to accept and certainly easy to understand. But just as the fiscal policies of the 1930s served only to heighten the misery of the unemployed and prolong the depression so they will today. 
It seems that conservative governments are extremely slow to learn. Their financial policies are based on old fashioned ideology rather than on a recognition of the medium to long term needs of our nation. Much of that ideology centres on myths on the level of public expenditure in Australia- myths that have been exposed as inaccurate by a recent report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development entitled 'Report on Public Expenditure Trends'. That report shows that the proportion of public expenditure to gross domestic product over the three years 1974 to 1976 averaged 32.8 per cent in Australia compared with an OECD average of 41.4 per cent. The report shows that total public expenditure was less only in Japan and Spain than it was in Australia. Those were the only two nations in which public expenditure was less than in Australia. Japan spent 25. 1 per cent and Spain spent 25.3 per cent. 
-It was the three years from 1974 to 1976. In all countries with which Australia is comparable a higher proportion of gross domestic product was used for public expenditure. For example, Canada spent 39.4 per cent; West Germany spent 44 per cent; the Netherlands spent 53.9 per cent; Sweden spent 5 1.7 per cent; the United Kingdom spent 44.5 per cent; and the United States spent 35.1 per cent. Government spending increased in all OECD countries during the last 15 years. Let us compare what has happened in Australia with what has happened in those nations. As a proportion of gross domestic product, public expenditure in Australia in 1962 was 24 per cent. It rose to 32 per cent in 1975. In the United States, the figure rose from 29.5 per cent to 34 per cent. In Germany it rose from 33.6 per cent to 42 per cent. In the United Kingdom it rose from 34.2 per cent to 44.4 per cent. In more recent years, 1974-75 the share of gross domestic product going to urban public transport expenditure in this country, including transport planning and research, was 0.08 per cent. That figure has declined to 0.07 per cent in 1977-78- a substantial decline. We can safely assume that in the current year, 1978-79, because of the financial stringency and slashing of public expenditure there will be a further reduction still in the share of gross domestic product going to urban public transport. 
The years of neglect of urban public transport, a disease that the Whitlam Government sought to correct in 1974, provide commuters, those people who have to use the services in their existing condition, with a daily reminder of the effects of Government penny pinching.  Mr Alan  Reiher, the Chief Commissioner of the New South Wales Public Transport Commission, in his 1978 James N. Kirby Award address disclosed the effects of years of financial neglect on Sydney's public transport system. Of the 1,190 metropolitan passenger rail cars then in service, 520 were 35 years old. About 480 were over 50 years old. Train delays due to equipment failure were about 1,500 per month, rising to 2,000 per month in periods of wet weather. The rate of failure in metropolitan rail cars had risen to 20 times the rate existing 10 years previously. Similarly, of the 1,700 buses in the PTC'S fleet it had not been unusual to have 300 to 350 out of service daily. 
That meant that sometimes almost 20 per cent of the bus fleet was out of action. Massive funding is obviously required even to maintain the quality of service, let alone to make any advance towards a really competitive public transport system. 
The need for a forward looking approach to urban public transport funding is all the more urgent today than it was during the 1930s in the light of the need to adopt more energy efficient means of moving people in our cities. We simply cannot afford to allow a supposed need for financial restraint to deflect us from the provision of practical alternatives to the motor car in urban areas. That such petty budgetary measures are the cause of human misery today makes the present Government's policies all the more absurd. Furthermore, the Government cannot use the excuse that the funds are not available. 
As a result of its import parity pricing policy on liquid fuels, a policy which is supposed to promote conservation of liquid energy supplies, the Treasury will collect an extra $680m from motorists this year. The motorist is always a good gain to this Government. At the same time the Gippsland and Barrow Island oil producing groups may expect to receive a combined windfall gain of around $340m. Together the total windfall gains are just in excess of $ 1,000m. This money is being stripped from the motorist, from the low income earners who have to use motor cars because they do not have any choice and from all those people who will not have any alternative under the policies of this Government. Next year those two oil producers may expect to receive $460m. In 1981 they may expect to receive $580m. As this windfall is ostensibly to encourage the search for oil it is encumbent upon the Federal Government to ensure that the windfall is used for exploration and not remitted overseas. Nor is it too much to ask that the Government's share of the excise increase be devoted to road and public transport improvements as conservation measures. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  speaking to the States Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill last year reminded us that fuel excise or the fuel tax component in the price of petrol has traditionally been regarded as a general revenue measure and that therefore it is not enough to say that because we are taking more money through tax we should spend more money directly in favour of the motorist. Such taxes, he concluded, have to be seen in the context of the Budget as a whole. I am sure that motorists will understand that when the Government takes $ 1,020m extra from them this year. Is it not a most pressing budgetary requirement to conserve fuel and reduce our dependence on Australia's finite oil reserves?  Mr C.  W. Freeland of the Department of Transport told the International Road Federation Australasian Road Conference last year that 61 per cent of our primary oil requirements went to transport in 1975. This figure was higher than for any other OECD country. It was higher than the United States of America where the figure was 53.3 per cent. Furthermore, in 1976 transport used 37 per cent of energy consumed in Australia. In 1975 transportation was 99 per cent dependent on petroleum fuels, the remaining one per cent being accounted for mainly by electric trains and trams. 
By 1985 it is expected that 50 per cent of our oil supplies will be imported and that this will result in an import bill, based on current prices, of more than $2, 000m compared with $800m in 1975-76. In  Mr Freeland  's words, it appears that transport technology will need to be developed to use other energy forms but this will require a commitment by both government and private sectors to support research and development of new transport fuels and new vehicle technology, such as electric cars, as well as encouragement of traffic management, para-transit and public transport programs. 
There is absolutely no sense in hitting the Australian motorist with higher petrol prices while none of these alternative strategies are pursued in anything but a casual style by the Commonwealth Government. Unless a positive approach is adopted to transportation research, development and planning, the latest fuel price increases will turn out to be nothing more than another attack by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  on the more defenceless members of our community. What practical alternative to the motor car as a means of transport have the inhabitants of low income, outer suburbs such as Bayswater, Ferntree Gully, Dandenong, Frankston, Sunshine or Broadmeadows in Melbourne, or Cabramatta, Liverpool and Fairfield in Sydney? Honourable members need only stand by the gate of any factory in those suburbs during a change of shifts to witness how vital the car is to the people who live and work there. 
On the other hand, people on higher incomes in suburbs where public transport is poor have no alternative either, but at least they are better equipped to pay the price. Both the husband and wife may have cars and maybe they can afford to run them as frequently as they wish, but it is grossly unfair to hit the only means of conveyance available to lower income earners whilst providing no alternative transport services. Another group which has no alternative to private transport comprises those who live in rural areas. Access to cars, trucks and tractors is nowhere more vital than in the country. It is here that alternatives seem to be hardest to find. Surely then we should be urgently researching alternative fuels for use in rural areas which, despite the vast structural changes in our economy since the War, still provide a substantial part of our national wealth. We should also be ensuring that as many commuters as possible are won to public transport in order to conserve liquid fuels for those who most urgently require them. As was put to the Environmental Studies Centre at Adelaide University last year, conservation measures, including price increases, efficient vehicle production, intermodal transfers and electric propulsion, can make a substantial contribution by 1990 provided a concerted effort is made now. 
It seems that the Government is gambling on paying for future energy imports by the sale overseas of our energy resources, especially coal and uranium. This is a gamble indeed, for if such sales are not up to expectations, within five or six years Australia may face a double crisis- an energy shortage for transport and a severe balance of payments problem. That public transport is more energy efficient than the private motor car is well known. Figures relating to energy intensiveness of various modes of Australian passenger transport were presented to a UNESCO Symposium on Energy and How We Live in 1973 and they showed that per passenger kilometre walking consumes 145 kiloiules, cycling consumes 85 to 105 kilojoules, while trams account for 1,250 kilojoules, buses 1,340 kilojoules and trains 1,050 kilojoules, the lowest figure other than that for walking and cycling. Cars, on the other hand require 3,770 kilojoules per passenger kilometre while aeroplanes consume 5,230 kilojoules. Cars, therefore, require roughly three times the amount of energy as either trains, buses or trams, their nearest competitors at present. Furthermore, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation tells us that the average car spends only about three per cent of its life in motion and uses more energy in moving its own bulk than in moving its occupants. 
That there is public support for the improvement of urban public transport services is evidenced by the results in the last two New South Wales elections in which major improvements to public transport was an important issue. Added to that are the results of a poll of 1000 Melbournians published by the Melbourne  Age  on 9 September 1978. It showed that 77 per cent of those polled believed that improving public transport would be a better solution to transport problems than building a freeway network. Only 20 per cent thought a freeway network would be the better solution of the two. The majority view was well justified although it is true that freeways result in reduced accidents, less pollution and lower fuel consumption per vehicle mile. However, such benefits are negated by the proven tendency for road construction to encourage more traffic and as far back as 1937 there were statistics available to show that that observation is correct. 
In the longer term the bridge between private and public transport policy and energy policy has to be the development of appropriate land use strategies. This will require that planning take account of the relationship between transport and urban and regional development to effect optimal land use patterns for the transport systems. In his paper  Mr Freeland  suggested re-concentration within our cities, increased densities in the central business districts, a revival in radial, high density urban public transport, coupled with short term policies to minimise dependence on and the use of oil, as a preparation for transition in the longer term. 
The reduction in funds for urban public transport by this Government exposes the dishonesty of its claim that it is interested in public transport. The related areas of transportation and urban and regional planning are of such critical importance that it is foolhardy to ignore the urgent necessity for adequate funding of current urban public transport projects and planning for the future. Accordingly, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion, that- 
the Government should be severely criticised for reducing the amounts made available to the States for upgrading of urban public transport in 1978-79 by $20m and in 1979-80 by $5m, 
this reduction in funds to the States will seriously disrupt the provision of improved transport faculties, and 
this action of the Government is inconsistent with the development of urban public transport as an essential part of a responsible national energy policy for Australia'. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the Sydney  Sun-Herald  of 18 June 1978 concerning the auctioning of furniture from the Prime Minister's Lodge. 
If so, (a) was furniture from the Lodge auctioned off, (b) what items were placed on auction, (c) which items were sold, (d) what is the whereabouts of items not sold, (e) what was the reserve price asked for each item, (f) what was the selling price for each item, (g) who decided which items should be placed on auction, (h) what criteria were used for deciding which items were to be auctioned and (i) what arrangements have been made to replace items of furniture at the Lodge which were sold. 
Were any items withdrawn just prior to the auction. If so (a) what items were withdrawn, (b) what are their whereabouts, (c) who decided which items should be withdrawn from the auction, (d) what criteria were used for deciding which items were to be withdrawn and (e) what was the reserve price asked for each item withdrawn. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
Has the West Australian Consumer Affairs Bureau complained to the Commonwealth Ombudsman about the Department of Transport's refusal to allow a man to travel on a cheap air fare from Australia to Amsterdam, as reported in the  Australian  of 1 8 October 1 978. 
If so, (a) what is the nature of the complaint, (b) is the Ombudsman investigating the complaint and (c) what stage has the investigation reached. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and ( b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, 
a ) what was the substance of the submission, and 
will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and ( b ) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1 978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of bis Depanment (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1 976-77, (ii) 1977-78, (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Depanment or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1 978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Depanment (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ti) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Depanment or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
1 ) Under what circumstances are the Attorney-General 's (a) Departmental staff and (b) personal staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of the Attorney-General's Depanment (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1 976-77, (ii) 1 977-78 and (id) 1 978-79 to date. 
How many officers from the Attorney-General's Depanment or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (u) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Did he say in answer to question No. 2638  (Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3156) that an index to  Hansard is  circulated first in roneoed form mainly for urgent official use. 
If so, can he define the meaning of the phrase 'for urgent official use' and detail the individuals in this category who receive a copy of the index. 
Does his Department prepare a computerised index of  Hansard;  if so, how recent is it and to whom is it made available. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Doeshis Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
Asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 24 November 1978, the following question: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Does the Attorney-General's Department or any agency under the Attorney-General's control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does the Department of Administrative Services or any agency under the Minister's control prepare an index of Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Has a D notice classification been placed on any information associated with the purchase of 3 high speed imported limousines by the Government; if so, why. 
If not, what information can he provide on the specifications of the vehicles. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 978: 
What plans are in hand or have been initiated by his Department to provide servicing facilities for Boeing 727/ 100 aircraft. 
What is the expected cost of the facilities. 
Will he provide details of the servicing and maintenance procedures on Boeing 727/100 jet aircraft of the type proposed for purchase by the Government. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 946 which first appeared on this Notice Paper on 2 May 1978. 
) What are the reasons for the 5 months delay in replying to the question. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1296 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 26 May 1 978. 
What are the reasons for the 4 months delay in replying to the question. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
What is the (a) location, (b) area, (c) annual rental, (d) occupying agency, (e) date of approval of occupancy and (f) number of Commonwealth employees occupying each building leased by the Commonwealth in Wagga Wagga, New South Wales. 
What is the (a) location, (b) area, (c) occupying agency and (d) number of Commonwealth employees occupying each building owned by the Commonwealth in the same city. 
For each building owned by the Commonwealth (a) what was the cost of (i) construction and (ii) furnishings, (b) when was construction authorised and (c) for whose occupancy was the building intended. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1 978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) departmental staff and (b) ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Depanment or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) departmental staff and (b) ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1 976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
Under what' circumstances are his (a) departmental staff and (b) ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the USA and United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval, and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ti) 1977-78,(iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 November 1 978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, Departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
How recent is each index. 
To what persons, Departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, Departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978. 
1 ) Does his Depanment or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, Departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport: Did the Government provide a guarantee of$US11m to Ansett Airlines of Australia for the purchase of its tenth Boeing 727-200 aircraft? Is it a fact that Trans- Australia Airlines is financing the purchase of its tenth Boeing 727-200 from its own funds without a Government guarantee? Did the Minister use his extensive powers under the Commonwealth legislation to call up Ansett 's financial accounts to verify the need for the Government guarantee and the possible impact upon domestic air fares? Finally, did the Minister agree to finance the Ansett Airlines equipment purchase in the clear knowledge that Ansett Transport Industries was pumping significant earnings into the endangered financier Associated Securities Limited? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on11 October1978: 
What costs were incurred by his Department in the reviews of: 
Domestic Civil Aviation Policy and 
International Civil Aviation Policy, specifying for each: 
i) salaries, wages and overtime paid to departmental officers 
travel costs and allowances 
payments to non-departmental personsand/or organisations and 
other expenses incurred in association with each of the reviews. 
MrNixon- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Domestic Civil Aviation Policy Review costs: 
salaries of officers seconded full time totalled $57,518.59 
travel costs and allowances were not recorded separately 
consultant's fees totalled$1,792.76 
printing costs to date total $150.00 
International Civil Aviation Policy Review costs: 
salaries of officers seconded full time totalled $53,058.4 1 . Overtime totalled $2,362.9 1 
travel costs and allowances were not recorded separately 
consultant's fees totalled $2,3 10.90 
printing costs to date total $10,500.00 
Members of the Steering Committee associated with each review were undertaking the tasks as pan of their normal duties and were not paid any additional amounts. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
1 ) With what countries does the Government still have to negotiate before it can introduce reduced air fares on the Australia to United Kingdom route. 
2 ) What is the nature of these negotiations. 
What negotiations has the Government authorised to take place. 
When will these negotiations take place. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
) What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval, and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (ii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personnal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 November, 1 978: 
With reference to paragraph 15.1.7 of Part I of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review, what are the Government's committees referred to that have examined the proposition that Trans Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd should be merged. 
For each committee (a) what was its composition, ( b) who was the  chairman,  (c) what were the terms of reference, (d) when and where did it deliberate and (e) what were its findings. 
Will he make available to the Parliament or the Opposition a copy of the Report of each committee. 
What action has been taken to implement the recommendations of each committee. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his Department given permission to the P &amp; O shipping line to operate a fly-cruise fare from Australia to Britain; if so, (a) what are the details of the P &amp; O proposal and (b) when will the fare come into effect. 
If permission has not been given, is his Department considering such a proposal from P &amp; O. 
When will an announcement be made on whether permission has been granted. 
Has his Department received similar proposals from other shipping lines; if so, (a) from which shipping lines were they received and (b) what are the details of the proposals. 
asked the Minister for Transport upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Did he say in answer to Question No. 2477  (Hansard,  8 November 1978, page 2S79) that the loadings at some work positions at the Melbourne Flight Service Centre exceeded desirable levels for one-man operation for a portion of the day. 
If so, has the problem been corrected. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
What are the details of the modelling and simulation project as mentioned on page 59 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 1  November 1978. 
When will the project commence. 
When does he expect the project to be completed. 
On what basis are payments to be made to the contractors. 
What were the reasons for his Department establishing the project. 
Will he undertake to publish the project's findings. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
What are the details of the project investigating the legal implications of frangible poles, mentioned on page 59 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 7 November 1978. 
When will the project commence. 
3 ) When does he expect the project to be completed. 
On what basis are payments to be made to the contractors. 
What were the reasons for his Department establishing the project. 
Will he undertake to publish the project's findings. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) What are the details of the in-depth study of road accidents in Adelaide as mentioned on page 59 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette ofl  November 1978. 
2 ) When will the study commence. 
When does he expect the project will be completed. 
On what basis are payments to be made to the contractors. 
What were the reasons for his Department establishing the project. 
Will he undertake to publish the study's report. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
What aspects of mass data systems will be studied by the research project mentioned on page 59 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 1  November 1978. 
When will the project commence. 
When does he expect the project to be completed. 
How are payments to be made to the contractors. 
What were the reasons for his Department establishing the project. 
Will he undertake to publish the project's findings. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) What are the details of the project evaluating the road safety effectiveness of MITERS, as mentioned on page 59 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 7 November 1978. 
When will the project commence. 
When does he expect the project to be completed. 
On what basis are payments to be made to the contractors. 
5 ) What were the reasons for his Department esablishing the project. 
Will he undertake to publish the project's findings. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) What are the details of the project compiling an inventory of exposure data, as mentioned on page 59 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 7  November 1978. 
When will the project commence. 
) When does he expect the project to be completed. 
On what basis are payments to be made to the contractors. 
What were the reasons for his Department establishing the project. 
Will he undertake to publish the project's findings. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Is it his intention to have prepared a comprehensive report on the impact of the 1974 program under the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act and to present it to Parliament in due course. 
If so, what progress has been made in the preparation of the report. 
) When is it likely to be presented to Parliament. 
What are the names and classifications of the officers engaged in its preparation. 
What aspects of the previous program will be dealt with in the report. 
Have the States been consulted during the preparation of the report. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1) Is a T-Vasis to be installed at Hamilton, Victoria, airport by his Department. 
2 ) If so, at what cost. 
Is the airport currently provided with night landing equipment. 
Who requested the installation. 
Is the purpose of the upgrading to allow VIP aircraft to fly to Hamilton airport at night. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) What aspects of the administration of MITERS will be studied by the review mentioned on page 59 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 7 November 1 978. 
When will the project commence. 
When does he expect the project will be completed. 
On what basis are payments to be made to the contractors. 
What were the reasons for his Department establishing the project. 
Will he undertake to publish the projects findings. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November1978: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 2 143  (Hansard,  8 November 1978, page 2573) have fare arrangements offered by Australian authorities to European aeronautical authorities as mentioned on page 41 of his Department's 1976-77 Annual Report, now been agreed to: if so, what is the nature of those arrangements. 
If agreement has not been reached, when does he expect to finalise the agreement. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indexes made available. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications on notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
) What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indexes made available. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
At 1.14 p.m. (0314GMT) on 18 April 1978 did the flight deck crew of Qantas flight 574 bound from Sydney to Nadi, Fiji, whilst in the vicinity of Lord Howe Island report to the Flight Service Centre, Sydney, that they had received a distress beacon (VSB) on a frequency of 121.5 mgz and that the beacon signal dropped out at approximately 29 south 160 east. 
If so, in accordance with search and rescue procedures (a) was a search initiated from the Rescue Co-ordination Centre at Sydney Airport to ascertain the source of the beacon signal, (b) initially were aircraft from Norfolk Island Airlines (BE200), and later a RAAF Hercules C1 30 from RAAF Base Richmond, NSW, called in on this search with the aircraft later being staged overnight at Norfolk Island, and ( c) was a RNZAF Orion P3 also called in at a later stage to assist in the search for the source of this VSB signal as reported by QF574. 
For how many days did this search continue. 
How many sorties were flown and what were the coordinates of the area in which the search was carried out. 
What were the number of hours flown in activities associated with the search. 
When did this search for the source of VSB signal conclude and what were the conclusions of the searchmaster at Sydney. 
When was the Marine Operations Centre, Canberra, notified that a VSB had been activated in this Pacific Ocean Area. 
Was the searchmaster at Sydney aware that a transTasman yacht race from New Plymouth to Mooloolaba, 
Qld, was in progress and that it has been the custom recently for some yachts on ocean passages to be equipped with VSB and that it is mandatory in some ocean yacht races for VSB, to be carried. 
In view of the fact that QF574 reported at 1. 14 p.m. on 18 April a VSB contact at approximately 29 south 160 east and location of Middleton Reef at 29.30 south 159.06 east approximately, why was an Advance Airlines or similar type aircraft not asked to divert from Lord Howe Island to search Middleton Reef as a precautionary measure as soon as possible. 
10) Is it a fact that subsequent events revealed that (a) a RAAF Hercules C 1 30 aircraft on a flight from New Zealand to Australia was diverted to search the Middleton Reef area on 13 May and sighted the wreckage of the yacht  Josephine  which according to newspaper reports had been there since 15 April and (b) that HMAS  Swan  arrived at Middleton Reef on 7 May, with a boarding party being landed to investigate the wreck of  Josephine,  an examination which revealed that  Josephine  had been abandoned, the liferaft launched and that the crew had set sail possibly for the mainland. 
If so, who requested the RAAF Hercules CI 30 to divert. 
Is he able to say if the VSB was on board the  Josephine;  if so, what was the operating frequency of the VSB. 
If there was no VSB on board, had the vessel been so equipped on its departure from New Plymouth. 
In view of the fact that it took from 15 April to 13 May to discover the  Josephine  on Middleton Reef, despite a VSB contact in the area from 18 April, was the failure to search Middleton Reef as soon as possible after the VSB contact in any way influenced by the fact that for approximately 10 days in 1975 or 1976, units of the RAAF, RAN, RNZAF, RNZN and civilian aircraft carried out a search in basically the same area after the reporting of a VSB. 
15) Is it a fact that a unit of the RNZN recovered a Dan buoy or a submarine sonar buoy in the search area; if so, what were the conclusions regarding this previous search. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1 976-77, (ii ) 1 977-78 and (iii) 1 978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
-This Government's expenditure of almost $30m over the next three years on the purchase and operation of two Boeing 707 jetliners- veritable flying hotels- to transport the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his ministry on their regular jaunts abroad is in stark contrast to the miserable $ 1 expenditure per unemployed person to be provided this year for youth training in the Commonwealth Public Service. The purchase of the Boeings is an abuse of public responsibility. The contempt that this Government and the Prime Minister hold for the needs of the low to middle-income families of our nation is illustrated by the order of their financial priorities. As a result of its mismanagement of the economy and its increasing incompetence and divisiveness, recorded unemployment has reached an all-time record of almost half a million persons. As a result of its current budgetary measures, pensioners have been robbed of $27m by the denial of their six-monthly cost of living adjustment this year. As a result of the abolition of Medibank, sick low-income persons have been reduced to begging for medical treatment under the officially undefined classification of disadvantage persons '. 
As a result of the low priority accorded the defence services by this Government, naval steaming time has had to be reduced, 20 of the Army's tanks are being mothballed, 20 per cent of the armoured vehicles on issue are being withdrawn and ammunition supplies are being cut. The Fraser Government's reason for all this is lack of funds. Yet on the very day that the defence service cuts were announced the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  was able to announce also the Government's purchase of two Boeing 707 jetliners for use by the Prime Minister and his Ministry in what can only be described in kind terms as global gallivanting. 
As well, it is clear that unlimited funds from unspecified votes are available to pay for the increasingly frequent international safaris of the Fraser Ministry. Whilst expenditure on overseas travel by the Whitlam Ministry was shown in gross terms, under the figures produced by this Government it is impossible to find the true cost to Australian taxpayers of ministerial travel. I have no doubt that when the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  replies he will use the same inflated and padded figures that have been trotted out on earlier occasions in respect of travel by Prime Minister Whitlam and members of his ministry. But I challenge the Minister to produce to the Parliament in respect of each of the Fraser ministries, figures of the full cost of travel overseas- for each Minister and his associated staff. I am not referring to the personal staff of Ministers. I mean the associated staff, the back-up staff, the cost of whose travel under this Government's method of accounting has been tucked away in departmental estimates. Even in the Senate Estimates committees, where probing of departmental accounting is possible, the information has not been supplied. It is impossible now for anybody, under this Government's accounting methods, to find the true cost. 
In addition, formal questions on notice have been asked in the Parliament of each Minister, seeking a full accounting of the costs of overseas travel by each Minister, his staff and those associated with his visit. That information has been refused, and the rejection by the Minister for Transport of my challenge to table the full information is clearly a rebuttal of any claim that he might make in respect of the Whitlam Ministry. 
Let me examine the information that is available on the cost of the safaris of this Government. Let us examine the frequency, the style and the purpose of those trips. The Budget Papers for the current year show that for the Department of Administrative Services $800,000 is to be provided for ministerial travel. For the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet $ 1 .6m is provided for VIP travel. That figure, obviously, does not take into account the expenses associated with the purchase of these two flying hotels. No mention was made of it in the Budget Papers. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has since confirmed that the money will come from a yet to be defined special vote. To that $1.6m we can add the $I4.5m for the 707s to which the Government confesses. There is considerable dispute about how much more it will cost for the 707s if sound and engine modifications are necessary. I note that the Minister for Transport is smiling. I am hopeful he will provide specifics. 
Let us consider the Government's own figure of $ 14.5m which it will provide from special funds not allocated in the Budget. Take the figure given by  Senator Townley,  a Government member in another place. The figures are not mine; they are not figures put forward by the Opposition.  Senator Townley,  I think responsibly, has ascribed an operating cost of $3,000 per hour to the 707s. On the figures of operation given by the Minister for Defence, which are 700 hours per year, the cost per aircraft will be $2.1m per year or $4.2m for both aircraft. How often will they be used? They will be used for less than two hours a day. They will be standing there ready for when the Prime Minister wants to go out on a tiger hunt or on a fishing trip to Slave Lake or elsewhere. The planes will be there on standbythey will be there at the ready, costing $4.2m a year. This brings the total to $2 1 . 1 m. 
Let us look to the other morass where the real costs of travel associated with ministerial trips have been hidden or buried- the travel votes of the various departments. If we look through the Budget Papers and examine those votes we find an almost astronomical total of $93. 8m on travel subsistence within Australia by all departments. Out of that figure an amount is used for overseas travel. The Government refuses to provide the amount used for specific trips. In fact it has refused to answer any questions on overseas travel. Those two figures for domestic and overseas travel total $1 14.9m. Honourable members can decide how much is for travel overseas. The figure of $4.5m for modifications to the Boeings does not take into account the infrastructure costs and the additional stewards who have to be employed. The VIP squadron is looking for 12 stewards. I will refer later to how the Prime Minister likes to be catered for. Twelve stewards are being sought to provide the sizzling fillet steaks which the Prime Minister so much likes when he flies. We do not take into account the $220,000 which will be needed for works at Canberra airport. We do not take into account the other things about which we have not been told. The Government has refused requests from its own members- not from the Opposition- to provide and table the papers between the Royal Australian Air Force and the Government on the purchase of the 707s. 
It must be remembered that the 707s are only stage one of the Government's much publicised program of $40m to re-equip the VIP fleet. Again, the figures are from the Government's own report. Those figures are not ours. The purchase of the Boeings is crazy and immoral and a dishonest decision. This Government has embarked on the same aura of secrecy as did an earlier conservative government in respect of VIP aircraft. The decision is based allegedly on two reasons. The first is security. Let me stress, however, that no recommendation to government from any quarter has advised that it should purchase Boeing 707s. Again I challenge the Minister to table that advice if any has since been obtained or manufactured. But there has been no advice or recommendation to expend public funds on buying international jetliners to fly around the Fraser caravanserai. The Fraser caravan would probably be a better description. Let us turn again to the Government members. Ex-Senator Wood again let the cat out of the bag. He said in the Senate last year that again the red herring of security was being used to try to justify irresponsible public expenditure. Last May the Minister for Defence told the Parliament that the present BAC Ills were unsuitable for long international flights. But it appears that they are safe enough for the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  He managed to get to the Middle East and back. Apparently there are degrees of safeness and suitability on the Government's side. The  Deputy  Prime Minister exploded by his trip the claim that the BAC Ills were unsuitable for long international nights. Let me again use the words of a Government member.  Senator Townley  labelled the Boeing purchase as contrary to common sense. I have no doubt that the mass of Australians agree with that comment. The expenditure is contrary to common sense and unjustifiable. The Prime Minister himself told the House of Representatives in March 1976 that 'the argument that Qantas cannot provide adequate security for a Prime Minister is a specious argument and false'. I note that the Prime Minister's latest escapades were all by commercial nights too and not by VIP aircraft. 
In reality we are seeing an indulgence of the Prime Minister's obsession for luxury aircraft and frequent travel. It is an indulgence he obviously enjoys. His Press Secretary David Barnett told the Melbourne  Herald  in August last year that when  Mr Fraser  flies he flies in comfort with hot meals and drinks on hand served by uniformed Air Force stewards and stewardesses. The article continued: 
A typical meal in flight for him would be seafood cocktail, fillet steak, salad, strawberries and cream - 
Even the Minister for Transport would enjoy that-  chee'se and biscuits, coffee and an occasional cigar. 

 Mr Barnett went on to say that flying does not bother the Prime Minister. He said: 
Unless the Prime Minister looked out of the window he probably would not know he was flying. 
I am sure that he would not know he was flying if he was flying around the world in a 707 flying hotel. Since the conservatives seized government in 1975 there have been almost 60 ministerial trips. On average almost every 20 days a Minister flits out of this country. In just over three years the Prime Minister has had 16 jaunts abroad- on average a trip every 10 weeks. He embarks on an international safari at Australian taxpayers' expense. This is a man, I remind the House, who said that Australia did not want a tourist for a Prime Minister. Like it or not, fellow Australians, we have a 10- weekly tourist for a Prime Minister, a tourist we cannot afford and a tourist we cannot afford to indulge. We know of the style of travel of Ministers abroad, especially the Prime Minister. We know of the $65,000 hotel bill in New York and the $50,000 hotel bill in Paris. We have seen the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  rapped by the Minister for Defence for using VIP flights to excess. We have been through all that. 
I want to emphasise the last two trips of the Prime Minister. We can understand that the Prime Minister, having suffered the rigours, crises and sackings of last year's parliament and the substantial decline of his support felt that he should get away from it all and forget it. Where more appropriate than Runaway Bay in far off Jamaica? A mini-summit in the sun, as the Press over there called it. It was conveniently arranged by a Prime Minister who was described in a yet unrefuted foreign affairs document in this country as incredibly inept and of having arranged the conference for selfish domestic purposes. The Prime Minister spent a few days at Runaway Bay and then went off to Florida for the fishing. We remember that last year it was Slave Lake. It appears that there are no fish in Australia. The trip was a junket. No sooner had the Prime Minister returned to Australia that he was off to India for the tiger hunt and the dazzling mirrored ceiling of Udaipur with the love swing at the foot of the bed. Can honourable members imagine it all? While the Prime Minister hunted tigers deep in India half a million Australians hunted jobs, half a million Australians went without. Let me describe to the House a very precise report which appeared in the Newcastle  Herald  and which was provided by Australian Associated Press. It is entitled 'PM stranded on tiger hunt'. It states: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser  and his party were stranded in tiger country in Northern India today - and so it goes on. It then states: 
Tigers eluded  Mr Fraser  during his much publicised photographic hunt in the national park, named after one of India's most famous tiger shooters ... 

 Mrs Fraser is claiming a sighting. 
I'm sure I caught a glimpse of one but it was not really clear, 'she said. 
No one could substantiate the claim but Malcolm was very sceptical about it. The article continuer 

 Mr Fraser seemed rather sceptical. 

 Mrs Fraser did find a recent tiger kill, the leg of a small deer and some fresh blood, on one of the jungle tracks. 
The rain started soon after the elephant ride and continued for most of the night. 
Those are the priorities of this Government, the priorities of sending Prime Ministers abroad at 10-weekly and 20-day intervals, with unlimited funds from unspecified sources. Let me contrast that with this plaintiff letter from a constituent who says she is an ordinary housewife in ordinary circumstances. She says: 
We pay enough tax already. Maybe expenses don 't worry  Tammie  Fraser, but they certainly worry me and thousands of other women like me. 
That sums up the attitude of the Australian people. The alarming growth in public expenditure on ministerial travel and junkets abroad cannot be tolerated by this nation. The Government's priorities are all wrong. The situation is immoral. There has to be an end of this kind of priority that keeps half a million Australians out of work and sends Ministers abroad every 20 days. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) departmental staff and (b) ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1 977-78 and (iii) 1 978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indexes made available. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
Under what circumstances are his (a) departmental staff and (b) ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Is his Department investigating allegations that the Bass freight equalisation scheme is being misused as referred to in an article entitled 'Equalisation Pirating' appearing in the  Daily Commercial News o( 6  October 1978. 
) If so, what is the nature of the allegations. 
When does he expect the investigation will be completed. 
Who first made the allegations. 
Will he report to the Parliament on the result of the investigations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Did a near miss involving Qantas and Pan American aircraft occur within a short distance of Sydney Airport on Friday, 21 July 1978; if so, did his Department undertake an investigation of the incident. 
Has the investigation been completed. 
If so, what were the results of the investigation. 
Is it the official policy to suppress reports of these potential disasters. 
How many other reports of near misses involving (a) airline aircraft exclusively, (b) general aviation aircraft exclusively and (c) airline and general aviation aircraft have been recorded by his Department during each of the last five years. 
How many of these have occurred within the (a) Sydney, (b) Darwin, (c) Port Hedland and (d) Perth flight information regions. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does the Department of Science and the Environment or any agency under the Minister's control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
How recent is each index. 
To what persons, Department or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for Finance, on notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
1 ) Under what circumstances are his (a) departmental staff and (b) ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78, (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does his department or any agency under his control prepare an index  of Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indexes made available. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indexes made available. 
-by leave-The Opposition welcomes the statement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on developments in the lowering of international air fares. It is evident to all with the large increase in bookings for air travel to Europe and to the United States that tens of thousands of Australians are taking advantage of the cheaper fares. The new fare schedules appear to have led to some regularisation of the fare schedules within Australia. I think that is a point to be welcomed by both sides of the House also because there is no doubt that in the illegalities and the irregularities that were occurring in the marketing of air travel some people were able to take advantage of substantial discounts to the disadvantage of others. 
It also appears that the increase in travel by Australians out of Australia is greater than the increased numbers that are booked to travel into Australia. I put it to the Parliament that this is a matter of serious concern. It is too early yet because of the accumulated demand to get a proper understanding of what the regular trade will settle down to but on the figures the Minister has brought forward and those that have been published more recently it is clear that more Australians are going out of Australia for holidays, for recreation or whatever than there are newcomers coming into Australia. 
I just want to emphasise the point that this also is a matter of concern to the Australian tourist industry. But the industry itself has to make up its mind what it wants because as loudly as one segment of it clamours for cheaper air fares out of Australia another segment is clamouring for assistance to the depressed industry within Australia. Unless there is a clear and single voice coming forward from the tourist industry on what exactly it does want neither opposition nor government is promptly able to take into account the industry's needs and wishes. 
The statement has provided the Parliament with some information of the actual sales of airline travel but inadequate information is provided on the proposals being put to the member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations. There is no doubt, I think, in anybody's mind that the real purpose of the Minister's statement today is to try to prepare the ground for next week's ministerial conference in Jakarta. The interesting thing about that is that the conference has been called not by this Government but in effect this Government is being seen in the position of being summonded to Jakarta to be executed or else. It is a rather pitiful way in which to see this great nation of ours being dragged around the Asian scene as some sort of a villain when in fact our proper role in the Asian region should be that of leader, that of giving assistance and direction to and recognition of the needs of ASEAN nations. 
I turn to a quick recapitulation of some of the points raised by the Minister in his statement. He mentioned a new round of negotiations with the Dutch Government. We have seen the public dispute between the Netherlands Government and we have heard even on our radio stations the Netherlands Minister for Transport putting a case to the Australian community because obviously he was not able to put the case to the Australian Government. In itself that is a further chapter in this continuing saga of incompetence and bungling that has distinguished the handling of this whole issue of the lowering of international air fares and epitomises this Government's approach to foreign policy. In some ways I think that the Australian Minister for Transport has been caught up in the inadequacies of the foreign policy procedures of this Government and that in some ways maybe he is a victim rather than the creator of the friction. 
Let me just for a moment emphasise the friction with the Netherlands, a major nation in the European Economic Community. This is the community which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been traipsing around the world jawboning to about the need for Australia to be selling more primary products to the EEC. How do we go about trying to encourage the EEC to have better trading relationships with Australia other than quite unconsciously and without reason creating friction with a major nation such as the Netherlands in trying to negotiate new airline agreements? In the statement the Minister said: 
I am the first to admit that discussions in this area - 
That is, with the ASEAN countrieshave not, up to now, progressed quite as well as I had hoped. 
I think that is probably the most amazing understatement of the year and certainly it took a good deal of courage to make an understatement such as that. But really it is an admission of failureafter some eight to nine months of discussion around the nation and with those countries. The Government has not been able to reach the agreement that should have been reached before this. Emphasis is made of the involvement of the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Minister said: ... let me put to rest- I hope once and for all- what appears to have been a popular misconception. 
It is no misconception; it is fact, proved, and proved over and over again, that there has not been the high level involvement and participation of the Department of Foreign Affairs in negotiations with ASEAN nations that there should have been from the beginning. It was in October last year, when the Minister for Transport made a similar statement on this subject that the Opposition warned of the sensitivity and the delicacy of our trading relations with the ASEAN nations. Within those circumstances it was imperative that there be senior Foreign Affairs participation with the Department of Transport. Clearly that did not happen. 
-If it did happen it was quite ineffective and it again serves to indicate that this Government does not have foreign affairs expertise; it does not have a proper concept of what is involved in developing a proper set of relationships with the ASEAN nations. I recall that the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Garland),  that inveterate world traveller, on 4 October last year went to Singapore and told the Singaporeans that the airlines agreement negotiations had not been before Cabinet. Only a matter of days later the Minister for Transport rebutted that and said that it had been before Cabinet. So here is the first instance of the dispute within Cabinet over what was going on and what ought to have been going on. After almost nine months of discussions the Minister for Transport has told us today, at the top of page 4 of his statement: 

 Mr Peacock and I have been collaborating closely in this matter and I am pleased that we appear - 
I emphasise the words 'that we appear'; he did not say ' we are '. The Minister continued: to be getting close to arranging a significant round of discussions with the ASEAN countries later this month. 
What a condemnation of the Government's performance in its negotiations. What an admission of failure. The Minister responsible is not saying that we have achieved anything; he is saying that we appear to be getting close. There has been no arrangement. We might be getting close to a significant round of discussions. Further, at the bottom of the same page, he states: 
And, obviously, setting the correct fare levels is something that must be sorted out at the negotiating table. 
Have not the discussions been about establishing an acceptable set of fare schedules? Is that not what the nine months of talking was all about? Here again is a total admission of failure by the Minister and the Government. They have got nowhere. If one can accept the information that has been provided to the media by the Singaporean Government, the figure put forward to the Singaporean Government for off-peak cost of travel from Sydney to Singapore return is $464. As has been asked publicly by the Singaporeans, why would one buy a ticket for $464 for a trip Sydney-Singapore-Sydney off-peak when for $568- $104 more-one can travel to London and back? Those are public figures. There has been no statement by the Minister or by the Government to refute those figures. I have looked for such a statement, expecting that those figures could not be true. They just could not be; but apparently they are true. The Government has had an opportunity to refute that claim. If that is the case it is no wonder that the ASEAN nations are deeply concerned about the loss of tourism to their region. It seems that they have real fears that there will be a drop-off in traffic to the ASEAN countries. I refer now to the top of page 5 of the Minister's statement. I hope that at some later stage the Minister will clarify this. He states:  . . . there have been expressions of concern on the part of some ASEAN countries that stop-over traffic will decline, it is a fact that 47 per cent of Australian stop-over traffic is destined for Asian regions, not for Europe. 
As I have worked it out that statement seems to exclude only Hong Kong, India and Pakistan. What the Minister is saying is that 47 per cent of all traffic going through Singapore, Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur or Manila remains in that area. 
-The Minister says that that is right. If it is right I would like to see it spelt out in more detail. Let us see some passenger traffic figures to substantiate that claim. If that figure is correct that it is important. As I said earlier, we warned the Government last October of the delivery of and dangers involved in the ASEAN negotiations. 
The real reason for the ASEAN fare fiasco, as I prefer to call it, is the breakdown in the Cabinet consultative process. To this extent the Minister for Transport may be innocent; it may be that, to an extent, he has been a victim of this breakdown within Cabinet. Let us dwell for a moment on the statement I made earlier- that the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations said on 4 October 1978, when he was in Singapore, that there had not been any Cabinet consultations on this matter. We must remember that only days ago the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  resigned from Cabinet and within the space of 72 hours re-entered Cabinet. The Minister for Finance said in his statement in this Parliament that this occurred because of his terse relationship with the Prime Minister. They are his own words, not the Opposition's words. In the same unrefuted statement made in this Parliament the Minister for Finance said that the Prime Minister had not spoken to him for four months. These are two senior Ministers. Let us look at the consultation that has occurred between the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and the Prime Minister. Only a few weeks ago we saw the very cursory consideration given by the Prime Minister- the Prime Minister means also the Cabinet because he speaks for the Cabinet- to the views of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the withdrawal of aid to Vietnam. The Prime Minister gave the views of the Foreign Affairs Minister a cursory consideration and then overrode them. 
-It would be hard for the honourable member for Bendigo to understand anything. I turn now to the views of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch).  As I mentioned in an earlier debate, the Government had over a year to consider the implications of the international civil aviation policy review. After that policy was announced and implemented the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who with the Minister for Transport ought most to be concerned as to the operation of the policy, complained about the ramifications for domestic air fares and what development might not take place. Again here is clear evidence that there is not the kind of Cabinet consultation between senior Ministers that should have occurred on a very important subject. In addition, the Victorian Minister for State Development, Decentralisation and Tourism joined in the fray in attacking the policy. I will deal with that a little later. Our colleague sitting opposite, the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Ml),  as the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism, also lambasted the Government's policy on international civil aviation. 
If there had been any level of proper and responsible consultation between Cabinet members, State governments and foreign governments, as well as within Government ranks, there would have been unanimity and concord. The Government would have spoken with one voice instead of many voices. Frankly, the members of ASEAN and the Australian people do not know which voice to believe. There has not been the kind of consultation that there should have been. One of the Government members has labelled this Government as the 'In again, out again, gone again, Harrigan ministry How can one have any kind of confidence in what this Government has to say. 
The matter we are discussing is related to the foreign policy implications of a very important transport matter. Obviously, it has eluded the honourable member for Higgins and the rest of his colleagues. The problem in these negotiations for the new airlines arrangements with ASEAN goes to the Foreign Affairs Minister in exile who was overridden on the Vietnam issue. If, initially, he had been involved with the Minister for Transport at a ministerial level this breakdown, friction and rupture in relations with ASEAN nations would not have occurred. The Minister said that he is closely collaborating with the Foreign Minister. This does not take account of the vigorous and grandstanding entry into the issue a month ago by the Foreign Minister. That is all it has been. 
We cannot see how the policy has been changed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It appears that it has not been changed. It appears to be the same policy that the Minister for Transport has been plugging away with on his Pat Malone for some months. The involvement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not diminish the damage that was done by the Minister for Transport prior to his entering into the debate on this subject. I put it to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that really it was the eagerness of the Minister for Transport to play Santa Claus last December and to have something to present that brought about the urgency in announcing before last Christmas something in the way of reduced air fares. That was the reason for the haste which resulted in the exclusion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and which caused the great difficulty and friction that has occurred. 
The information concerning increases in airline and travel bookings on page 6 of the statement is only in percentage terms. The way the statement reads the increase in respect of the continental Europe route appears to be good from Australia's point of view but Qantas has estimated that total forward bookings- that is, bookings for all fare types- for March to December will increase by 62 per cent on flights out of Australia and by 98 per cent into Australia. In order to give those figures some meaning I again suggest to the Minister for Transport that he should provide us with the actual figures, because without the figures and without the knowledge of the numerical base - 
I am looking at page 6. 1 have looked at page 7 but there is no breakdown for that period. The period dealt with there is 
February-December and here we are looking at M arch-December. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index  of Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indexes made available. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what person, departments or agencies are indexes made available. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that his Department (a) investigate and report to him on possible ways of reporting suspect shipping and (b) compile an official register of ships failing to meet adequate equipment and safety standards for use by harbour authorities in routine inspections. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that the National Plan to Combat Pollution of the Sea by Oil should be equipped to respond to an estimated pollution threat calculated on the basis of the size and volume of shipping using Australian waters. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that the Commonwealth Government, at an international as well as national level, encourage the acceptance of compulsory pilotage for all oil tankers and other types of vessels over 10,000 tons in areas where detailed local knowledge is required for safe navigation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that he review, as a matter of urgency, the provision of navigation aids in hazardous areas, with particular reference to the addition of 2 telemetric tide gauges in the Torres Strait. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that the Commonwealth Government take immediate steps to enable Australian notification of the International Convention on Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that the Commonwealth Government increase the funds available for hydrography work in Australian coastal waters to hasten the upgrading of navigation charts. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that his Department in conjunction with State Governments and the oil industry establish a register containing information on oil cargoes and frequency and location of spillage. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that the Commonwealth Government encourage State Governments to amend their legislation to increase penalties for oil pollution of the sea. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that his Department and the Department of Science and the Environment (identified in the Report as the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development) hold discussions to consider the possibility of extending the National Plan to Combat Pollution of the Sea by Oil to include pollution by other hazardous substances. 
When and by precisely what means did the Acting Treasurer become aware that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd had speculated $ 18m in the endangered financier Associated Securities Ltd? What specific reports of Ansett did the Treasurer request when the Government legislated for a government guarantee of a $US1 lm overseas borrowing last November? In respect of his powers and responsibilities set out in the Airlines Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Act, what specific action has he taken following the $250m collapse of Associated Securities Ltd? 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
How recent is each index. 
To what persons, Departments and agencies are the indexes made available. 
-The subject of the matter of public importance, that is, the implementation of effective motor vehicle emission control standards, is of critical importance to the health and well-being of millions of Australians who reside in our cities. The thrust of the.argument of the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  was that because the Implementation of Australian Design Rule 27a involves increased effort and expenditure by some foreign-based motor vehicle manufacturers and because those manufacturers have been tardy in providing for ADR27A's implementation, they should be given more time to improve engine designs before the next stage of the implementation of emission control standards takes effect. The acceptance of such a proposal would be at the expense of the health of the millions of Australians who reside in the metropolitan areas. The Opposition rejects the proposition. We will not be party to a proposal which puts the protection of the profit and loss accounts in the balance sheets of foreign-based corporations before the protection of the health of Australian families. 
The honourable member also claimed, by way of a rather extravagant use of fuel economy test figures, that emission control standards have caused an 8 per cent to 10 per cent increase in fuel consumption for some motor vehicles. That claim cannot be justified. I will return to it later. The honourable member stated more or less that, after all, only the people in a few square kilometres of our cities were affected by motor vehicle originated air pollution, so why should the rest of Australia be concerned about them. What a ruthless, callous, abandonment of interest and responsibility for the health and welfare of urban dwellers! He was saying, in reality, that the illnesses, impairments and premature deaths triggered by air pollution were not the concern of the insensitive Fraser Government. The Fraser Government's primary concern is for the protection of the interests of foreign shareholders, not Australian citizens. The honourable member's brutal words epitomise the policies of this conservative government on many issues. 
Let us now turn to the facts of this issue. The timetable for the implementation of ADR27A was determined by the Australian Transport Advisory Council. It is a national transport council; a responsible body that is often chaired by the Minister for Transport. It has existed for well over 40 years. But the honourable member for Indi branded that Council as incompetent, irresponsible and uncaring when he said that a set of American rules had been dumped on Australians. By saying that, he intimated that there had been no investigation or consideration by the Australian Transport Advisory Council of the implications of ADR27A. That is nonsense because vehicle manufacturers round the world have known about ADR27 for many years. Stage 3 of ADR27A was originally to have been introduced in July 1978 and has been set back three times. Such systems have already been installed in cars in the United States and Japan and by some Australian manufacturers, notably in certain Chrysler and Japanese models. The problem of air pollution exists across the suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne and particularly in Sydney across the central, southern and western sectors. In all, Sydney and Melbourne constitute almost one half of Australia's population, but this Government seeks to abandon the health protection of the population of those cities. 
Turning to Brisbane, Adelaide and Canberra, one finds that they are already exceeding World Health Organisation air quality goals and have climatic conditions which lend those cities to photochemical smog. In Sydney, elevated concentrations of pollution usually cover a quarter or more of the central, southern and western regions for one to eight hours a day. Let us look at the effect of excessive ozone levels in the atmosphere, remembering that the World Health Organisation recommendation is six parts per 100 million. First, let me say that with ozone levels of 15 to 25 parts per 100 million breathing ability is reduced, especially in people who are exercising or who are sensitive. At 25 parts per 100 million, attacks can be triggered in sensitive asthmatics. At between 15 and 25 parts per 100 million elements of smog cause headaches and eye irritation. Also, ozone is believed to reduce resistance to bacteriological infection and to advance the aging process, which I am sure would interest some honourable members opposite. 
What levels are being experienced in some of our cities? In Sydney, on about 28 days of the year, the level is more than 15 parts per 100 million. On about 10 days of the year, the level is in excess of 20 parts per 100 million. The highest reading recorded was 38 parts per 100 million, in 1977. The most dramatic event in Sydney in relation to ozone levels occurred at Sylvania High School on 19 March 1976, when school children were exercising. At the time a reading of 20 pans per 100 million of ozone was recorded. Of those children 13 were taken to hospital with pains in the chest and lungs upon breathing deeply and quickly. 
The fact is that this kind of event may occur more often than is recorded but people have not yet learned to associate the presence in the atmosphere of ozone, an odourless, invisible substance, with the attack or discomfort that they are experiencing. In Los Angeles, by way of comparison, the peak ozone reading is about 58 parts per 100 million. Tokyo and Sydney, as I mentioned earlier, peak at about 38 parts per 100 million, but the contradiction is that Sydney is becoming worse and Tokyo and Los Angeles, because of firm, responsible and proper action by government, are improving. Even the Opposition party in the New South Wales Parliament, only a matter of days ago labelled Sydney as the potential pollution capital of the world. That is a title that the people of Sydney do not want, and what flows from that condition, in terms of deleterious effects to health, should not be pushed upon the people of the inner suburbs. In addition, photochemical smog contributes to crop damage and deterioration of man-made textiles and rubber products- damage estimated to have cost, in the United States, between $500m and $ 1,500m per annum. 
The argument that has been advanced by the honourable member for Indi that emission controls increase fuel consumption, thus depleting fuel supplies and increasing costs to motor vehicle operators, is both impertinent and fallacious. Fuel economy decreases at the beginning and then improves, as manufacturers respond to the introduction of improved emission control standards. In fact, if we watch the newspapers we see that the major selling point now for Chrysler cars is the 25 per cent reduction in fuel consumption that has followed the substitution for carburation, of the electronic lean burn system. 
Let me turn for a moment to figures that have been produced by the New South Wales Pollution Control Commission. The honourable member for Indi referred to a rather selective test of fuel consumption, following the introduction of ADR 27A, that had been carried out by the Federal Department of Transport. However, the sample used was not representative. It covered only 60 per cent of vehicles that were operative and did not take into account the running in condition of motor vehicles, which makes a substantial difference to the fuel economy achieved. Before I discuss those figures I wish to mention, in order to put the matter in its proper context, the major factors that affect fuel consumption. In this regard I quote from a letter to  Open Road  written by Messrs Johnston, Trayford and Van der Tour of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in December 1978. Referring to the effects of emission controls, they wrote: 
We found that over 80 per cent of the variation in fuel consumption between cars could be attributed to car size, whether measured by kerb weight, engine capacity or cylinder number. 
If we turn to the figures of the New South Wales Pollution Control Commission we see using ADR27 and the period 1974-76 as a base, that following the introduction of ADR27A a 5.02 per cent increase in consumption occurred. That increase settled down in 1978 to what has been almost one could say, a reduction in fuel consumption. Clearly, what happens is that as vehicles are run in, their performance improves. As the standard is introduced, if there is poor technology in some vehicles, and the sample selected is one that includes vehicles in which the manufacturers have not incorporated effectively designed equipment, that does add to the fuel consumption figure. I repeat, if a survey is carried out it should take into account the condition of the vehicle, whether it is new or run in; if the latter, for how many kilometres it has been run in; also, its weight and whether or not it has had installed equipment of a similar standard of technology. Those factors are certainly the reasons for the very poor consumption figures that have been produced by the Department of Transport in the survey that has been referred to by the honourable member for Indi. The other factor is that small cars are less pollutant and more fuel efficient. Again, that has been reflected in the market-place. In fact, the pressure upon manufacturers to produce a better standard of emission from motor vehicles has brought about a dramatic improvement in fuel efficiency. Liquid fuel conservation must, then, be approached in a responsible way. 
I would like to refer very quickly, in the few minutes that I have remaining, to the recommendations of a body that I hope Government members will not brand as irresponsible. I refer to the Australian Environment Council which, again, is a national body on which this Government is represented, and of which all of the States are constituent members. In its report of 
January 1978 it gives its conclusions on fuel consumption, as follows: 
Any increase in vehicle fuel consumption that has occurred in the period over which emission controls have been implemented is primarily associated with increased vehicle weight arising from model changes and the inclusion - 
I stress this-  of heavy, power consuming options such as air conditioning, automatic transmission and power steering. 
Some vehicle models have increased consumption as the result of the latest emission standards. These vehicles are generally in the heavier weight categories. Improved engine and emission control system design can offset these fuel consumption increases. 
Some vehicle models have maintained or improved thenfuel consumption. These vehicles are generally in the lighter weight categories. 
The statement concludes: 
Removal of emission controls - 
That is what the Government is proposing and what the honourable member for Indi put to us before the House suspended its sitting for lunch. He wants deferral which, in effect, means removal. The statement continues:  -or making them less stringent, as a fuel conservation measure will not achieve any significant benefit. Such measures will lead to needless deterioration in urban air quality. 
There is the substance of what I have been saying, not from the Opposition, not from a group with a vested interest, but from the Australian Environment Council. Moreover, this Government participated in the making of those recommendations. 
If we are to deal with a fuel economy problem and the conservation of liquid energy, there needs to be a range of co-ordinated measures to improve fuel economy; there needs to be a specified program for the introduction and expansion of the use of liquified petroleum gas, and for the substitution and greater use of diesel fuel. Attention needs to be given to the possible use of alcohol and petrol mixtures. But where is the Government's action? As ever, firstly, it is with the interests of foreign shareholders. Its attitude is: 'Let us defer Australian Design Rule 27A', as was suggested by the honourable member for Indi earlier. 
The other major factor that is involved, as I have mentioned, is the reduction of vehicle weight. Again we come back to effective and efficient engine and vehicle design because that is the area in which the greatest improvement in fuel economy can be made. Consideration needs to be given to the proliferation of fuel-expensive devices such as airconditioning. More attention should be given to the need for a better design for airconditioning units that are less fuel consumptive. The liquid fuel situation will present many problems for Australian cities as transport becomes more expensive and mobility becomes more privileged. If this problem is to be tackled it will require an integrated approach to urban planning and land use, including public transport. This Government, in this year, has slashed funds for public transport by some 26 per cent and by 46 per cent over 2 years. In this year this Government will collect $2.3 billion from motorists in excise and fuel tax. So if the Government is really concerned about the cost to motorists of liquid fuel it ought to be looking at the share it is taking from the community in excise and taxes. It should also look at what it is doing to alleviate the need for people to have private motor vehicles. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
1 ) Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and(iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, departments or agencies are the indexes made available. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Did he state in answer to Question No. 2478 (Hansard, 16 November 1978, page 3002) that his Department was attempting to determine the reason for the apparently incorrect distance measuring equipment indications in a DC-9 aircraft on 7 June 1978. 
If so, has his Department completed its investigation of the incident: if not, when will it be completed. 
Will he provide the Parliament with the results of the investigation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Have negotiations between the Australian and United States Governments on lower air fares on the Pacific route commenced. 
If so, where are the negotiations taking place. 
What is the name, classification and employing agency of each member of the Australian negotiating team. 
Is he able to say what is the classification and employing agency of each member of the United States negotiating team. 
5 ) What is the timetable for the negotiations. 
Which Government agency chairs the negotiations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) On what occasions have exemptions to the Government's policy in regard to the importation of aircraft over 5,700 Kg been granted. 
To whom have such exemptions been granted and what were the reasons in each case. 
Why does Part 1 of the Report of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review dated March 1978 not accommodate circumstances in respect of which these exemptions have been necessary. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does the Government support the recommendation contained in Part 1 of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review, dated March 1978, that the Government should continue to control the entry or aircraft into Australia through the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations to maintain the two airline policy as a general principle for as long as required. 
Does he believe that control over the import of aircraft into Australia in any case would be desirable regardless of the continuation of the two airline policy. 
Does he believe it to be sufficient that control over the import of aircraft into Australia depends upon legislation for which he is not responsible. 
Would he have expected the Review Committee to have addressed itself to this matter. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) Have Commonwealth Police visited the travel organisation associated with the Young Liberals of Victoria Travel Grants Scheme in connection with his Department's exercise of its responsibilities under Air Navigation Regulation 106a; if so, when did the visits occur and where were they made. 
What were the results of the investigations into the Young Liberals of Victoria Travel Grant Scheme and associated organisations. 
Are legal proceedings to be instituted against the organisations concerned. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What is the name and classification of each of the officers of his Department who attended: 
the International Conference on Tanker Safety and Pollution Prevention in London in early 1978; and 
the International Conference on Training and Certification of Seafarers in London in June 1 978. 
What was the itinerary of each officer from departure to return to Australia. 
3 ) What was the total cost of: 
travel 
b ) accommodation and 
c) other expenses for each officer and each conference. 
By which airline(s) did each officer travel. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
How many officers of the Melbourne Flight Service Centre took sick leave during the periods 
1 January 1976 to 1 January 1977, 
2 January 1977 to 1 January 1978, and 
2 January 1978 to 1 January 1979. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
How many officers of the Melbourne Flight Service Centre worked overtime during the periods (a) 1 July 1977 to 30 June 1 978 and (b) 1 July 1 978 to date. 
What was the average overtime worked in (a) hours and minutes and (b) days, for each officer during the same periods. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report entitled 'Canberra Reprieve for Sacked Apprentices' in the  Age  of 16 February 1 979; if so, is there any substance to the report. 
How many apprentices employed by his Department were dismissed at the end of their training because of staff ceilings imposed by the Government on various sections during (a) 1976-77,(b) 1977-78 and (c) 1 July 1978 to date. 
Will further apprentices employed by his Department be dismissed at the completion of their training during 1978-79; if so, (a) how many and (b) by which sections are they currently employed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) What will be the location of the computer system, peripheral devices and control software for which tenders were invited on page 47 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazetteof  February 1979. 
) What will be the function of the computer system. 
by what means are the tasks to be performed by the computer system at present performed. 
Will any persons presently employed by Australian National Railways become redundant following installation of the computer; if so, (a) how many and (b) what are their classifications. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
On what date and for what price was the Prime Minister's Mercedes car (a) bought and (b) sold. 
Will the Prime Minister explain to the House the procedure followed by his Ministers when appointees to statutory or other bodies become the subject of criminal charges? Is there a higher standard to be followed when the body concerned is responsible to a Liberal Minister than when the responsibility rests with a National Country Party Minister? Is it a fact that recently a government appointee was required to resign from a body responsible to a Liberal Minister, but similar action was not initiated by two National Country Party Ministers to whom the same person was responsible in other capacities? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) What is the nature of the transport service to Pine Islet under the terms of contract number TSQ64/78 mentioned on page 68 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of27 February 1979. 
) For what period will the service be provided. 
Who formerly provided the service. 
Under what item of his Department's accounts is the cost listed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
What is the nature of the transport service to Dent Island under the terms of contract number TSQ64/78 mentioned on page 68 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 27 February 1979. 
) For what period will the service be provided. 
3 ) Who formerly provided the service. 
Under what item of his Department's accounts is the cost listed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) What is the nature of the transport service to or in Fitzroy Street under the terms of contract number TSQ63/78 mentioned on page 68 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazetteof27  February 1979. 
) For what period will the service be provided. 
Who formerly provided the service. 
Under what item of his Department's accounts is the cost listed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) What is the nature of the transport service to Booby Island under the terms of contract number TSQ61 /78 mentioned on page 68 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 27 February 1979. 
For what period will the service be provided. 
Who formerly provided the service. 
Under what item of his Department's accounts is the cost listed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) What is the nature of the transport service to Low Isles under the terms of contract number TSQ62/78 mentioned on page 68 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 27 February 1979. 
2 ) For what period will the service be provided. 
) Who formerly provided the service. 
Under what item of his Department's accounts is the cost listed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
What is the nature of the transport service to Sandy Cape and Lady Elliot Island under the terms of contract number TSQ67/68 mentioned on page 68 of the  Commonwealth of Australia  Gazette of 27 February 1979. 
For what period will the service be provided. 
Who formerly provided the service. 
Under what item of his Department's accounts is the cost listed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) What is the nature of the transport service to Double island Point under the terms of contract number TSQ74/78 mentioned on page 68 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 27  February 1979. 
) For what period will the service be provided. 
Who formerly provided the service. 
Under that item of his Department's accounts is the cost listed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
What is the nature of the transport service to Cape Capricorn and Bustard Head under the terms of contract number TSQ65/78 mentioned on page 67 of the  Commonwealth qf Australia  Gazette of 27 February 1979. 
) For what period will the service be provided. 
3 ) Who formerly provided the service. 
Under what item of his Department's accounts is the cost listed. 
-The statement by the Minister for Transport &lt;  Mr Nixon)  is welcome as it provides some meagre information on last week's discussions with the Ministers of the Association of South East Asian Nations concerning the new international airline arrangements. The statement lacks frankness and is notable for its vagueness and generality. If the Minister provided Parliament with full and factual statements on all aspects of the proposed changes of international aviation arrangements, then public discussion on this issue would have been based upon fact rather than upon speculative assessments. Honourable members of this side hope that meaningful and profitable progress was made at last week's talks. It is hard to ascertain from the Minister's statement whether this is so. 
Clearly the two major issues under discussion have not been resolved. They are the stopover fares to the ASEAN countries and the participation by the ASEAN airlines in point-to-point travel from Australia to the United Kingdom and Europe. We have not been told of the Government's views on both of these issues. It has been left to the media to inform the Australian community that Singapore suggested a stopover surcharge equivalent to 10 per cent of the full applicable fare. This is $56 on the Australia-United Kingdom off peak fare of $568. It is said that Qantas suggested a stopover surcharge ranging between $200 to $300. The Minister in his statement sought to dismiss any suggestion that a confrontation had developed between Australia and the ASEAN nations. We regard that attempt as an insult to Australian intelligence. As I mentioned a few weeks ago, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  were virtually summoned to Jakarta by the ASEAN nations because the rupture in relations between those nations and Australia had developed to such an extent. 
Let me refresh the Minister's memory of the yards of columnists' space devoted to the animosity expressed in regard to Australia by ASEAN newspapers and the reaction of Australian editorial writers recently. In the  Australian Financial Review of  28 December last there was a letter from  Mr Rajaratman  of Singapore to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The letter stated: 
In his recent letter to  Mr Peacock  the Singapore Foreign Minister branded Australia's aviation policy blatently protectionist and discriminatory. . . . Singapore officials have suggested that by offering better terms for revising bilateral air services agreements to Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand then to Singapore the Fraser Government is trying to 'divide and rule' ASEAN. 
The same article refers to the Singaporean Government's attempt to influence the British Government to change its attitude towards the Australian-UK fares in this whole region of air fare negotiation. I turn to the  Straits Times  of 14 December. I believe this kind of publicity has been some of the most damaging of all so far as Australia 's standing in Asia is concerned. It starts with the heading: 
Air Talks End with Ultimatum. Aussies deal 'crisis' blow. Nixon's double talk. 
Then there is a quote by John Tan of the  Business Times: 

 Mr Nixon is counting on the fact that he can play off one ASEAN country against another in this respect, and is gambling that one at least of the other four will grant him more second freedom flights, even if Singapore refuses. 
The article states: 
The ASEAN countries and Australia are accelerating rapidly towards a collision that could leave relations in the Australasian region soured for many years to come. 
I say sincerely that despite what has been said there, I hope that last week's discussions did do something to retrieve that situation. Then the editorial of that same paper states: 

 Mr Peter Nixon's thinly veiled attack on the Singapore aviation authorities, and not the press as he purported, must rank as a masterpiece of double deception. 
Further on the editorial continues: 
In this statement, maintained no threats were made to Singapore. Yet, by his own admission his team of negotiators had made it clear to Singapore that Canberra could have taken steps more deleterious to the Republic. And those steps can still be taken if Singapore refuses to fall in line. 
The editorial concludes: 
If Singaporeans do in fact become alarmed, then it might be argued the alarm has been caused not by misreporting but by the inexact and insensitive information from the Transport Minister himself. 
It is the very point the Opposition has been making time and again in this Parliament on the whole subject of air fare negotiations. There have not been frank discussions; there have not been frank exchanges of information between the nations concerned, nor with the Australian people and this Government - 
Why don't you go back to sleep and leave it to the gentleman at the table? In the  Straits Times  of 19 January, the senior Minister for State (Finance),  Mr Goh  Chok Tomg, urged Australia to postpone the introduction of a cheap air fares policy because of the incalculable damage it can cause the ASEAN economies. That morning he was being interviewed by telephone on Caroline Jones' program, the  Morning Extra. 
In the  Straits Times  of 3 1 January, the Singapore Foreign Minister,  Mr S.  Rajaratnam told  Mr Peacock  that unless international civil aviation policy was substantially modified ASEANAustralian relations could take a course 'which neither of us want'.  Mr Rajaratnam  accused Australia of wanting to knock out airlines of developing countries such as ASEAN from the international civil aviation field. He rejected the claim by  Mr Nixon  that ICAP would encourage a greater flow of tourists to ASEAN countries, and so they go on. Even as recently as 21 February the Senior Minister of State (Foreign Affairs)  Mr Dhanabalan  said in the  Straits Times: 
We consider Australia as part of this area of the world. But its policy (ICAP) will isolate Australia from this region. 
Further on he stated: . . . the potential threat of Australia's protectionist policy in civil aviation may spread to other countries later. 
I refer to the headline of the  Straits Times  of 24 February: 
Dismay in Canberra. 
It quotes an Australian official as saying: 
We were hoping they - 
-The Minister would have helped us if that had been mentioned in his statement. But the fact is that the information is being leaked. There is speculation and the whole exercise damages Australia's standing. The Minister said on page 2 of his statement: 
We are all in agreement that lower air fares are necessary - 
As we are all in agreement that we are in support of Australian motherhood. 
Leaving aside the generalities and vagueness of the Minister's statement, the core issues are these: Firstly, the severe damage caused to Australia's standing in Asia as a result of this Government, in particular this Minister's, incompetence in negotiating with the ASEAN nations. He is Australia's 'innocent abroad' and that has always been the problem on this issue. Secondly, there is the role of the absentee Minister for Foreign Affairs which also has contributed to the difficulty that has developed. Earlier in the picture he avoided involvement. He has since become involved but what help has he been? There has been no evidence to show that the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs has had any impact on our relationship with the ASEAN nations. Why was it that all the statements were made by the Minister for Transport? Why were all the interviews conducted by him? Where is the Minister for Foreign Affairs this afternoon? Why is he not here in the chamber to participate in support of this statement? It was a joint delegation. It was an issue that demanded the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, not to be left to the Minister for Transport to carry the bundle again in his own way. 
The Opposition hopes at this late stage that some of the avoidable damage to Australia has been repaired. Bilateral discussions on cheaper fares will in no way affect the ASEAN collective approach- to which the Minister referred. Let us put the 'collective approach' that he referred to in his statement. From a reading of  Dr Mochtar'.  letter reported in the  Australian Financial Review  of 26 February of this year it is obvious that the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have not affected the ASEAN collective approach because the ASEAN Ministers have refused to budge. The way in which this Government failed to consult properly with the ASEAN nations before the Minister for Transport announced the new Australia to Europe air fares during last December and the way in which they carried out that exercise had a stunning effect on the ASEAN governments and resulted in the formation of their collective approach to Australia. 
The ASEAN airlines participation in Australia to Europe point to point travel and the reaction of European airlines to this is a matter for major consideration. It is the second major issue in the discussions of last week that has yet to be answered. It is clear that the United Kingdom Government has rejected approaches from the Singapore Government on this issue and it is clear that the pressure now has been directed to Australia. But on this subject the Parliament is still left in the dark. There is nothing we can gain from the Minister's, statement that will give any clear indication of what is happening in that aspect of the discussions. On stop-over fares for flights through the ASEAN countries, again we have been told nothing. Today's statement, like the statement of 11 October and 6 March, is another episode in this continuing saga of international air fares and continuing incompetence. Since 1977 we have said that open and public examination of the aviation industry would ensure a better deal for air travellers. Instead we have seen secretiveness and procrastination. We have seen severe damage caused to our relationship with our ASEAN neighbours. We have seen disruption to the Australian travel industry and we have seen a great deferment of travel and confusion created to the Australian community. All these things would have been avoidable if responsibility, frankness and competence had been applied on the part of the Government. 
It has been rammed home to this Government that the ASEAN nations have real interests that must be taken into account by Australia and that these nations will not be fobbed off by platitudes dressed up in the style of ministerial statements. The debacle that has occurred points to the Government's weakness in the handling of regional economic issues and of regional foreign policy. For the sake of our national interests, it is to be hoped that some real progress has been made by the Minister in repairing the damage that has been caused to Australia's relationship with ASEAN. I put that in a bipartisan approach to the Parliament. It is to be hoped that some real progress has been made towards the introduction of cheaper fares to the ASEAN countries. Regrettably it appears from the Minister's statement that we are back to square one because the two fundamental items of stop-over surcharges to the ASEAN countries and ASEAN participation in point-to-point travel from Australia to Europe have not been resolved. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ruddock)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and ( b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Will he table (a) warrants issued this year for overseas travel by Ministers, (b) credit advices received by his Department from international airlines for unused Australian sector travel by Ministers since I January 1978 and (c) details of airports at which Ministers boarded and disembarked from international aircraft since 1 January 1978. 
) Is it in order for Ministers to transfer credits for unused Australian sector travel from international airlines to domestic airlines so that travel credits can be used by nonministerial or non-governmental personnel. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Has his Department received requests formally or otherwise from any airline for the approval of the transfer to a domestic airline of credits for unused Australian sector travel covered by a warrant for international Ministerial travel. 
If so, when were these requests made and in respect of which Ministers were they made. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
What is the nature of the transport service to Cape Cleveland Lighthouse under the terms of the contract number TSQ68/78 mentioned on page 67 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 27 February 1979. 
For what period will the service be provided. 
Who formerly provided the service. 
Under what item of his Department's accounts is the cost listed. 
asked the Minister for Transport,  upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) What is the name, classification and department of each Australian official negotiating reduced airfares between Australia and London. 
What positions has each official held since 1 January 1976. 
Is he able to say what is the classification and employing agency of each member of the British negotiating team. 
Which Government agency chairs the negotiations. 
Where and on what dates have negotiations taken place. 
What is the timetable for future negotiations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 1 59 1  (Hansard,  8 November 1977, page 3160), what is the substance to the allegations as reported. 
) What was the result of the police investigation. 
Have, any persons concerned been prosecuted; if so, what was the result of the prosecutions. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
) If so, (a ) what was the substance of the submission and ( b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What was the nature and number of each of the deficiencies discovered during tanker inspections by his Department referred to in his Press statement of IS January 1979. 
What specific action has he initiated in respect of each of the deficiencies discovered in (a) tankers registered in Australia and (b) tankers registered overseas and what was the result of this action. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
What is the current staff establishment for the Flight Service Centre at Tullamarine Airport. 
What was the Centre's staff establishment during the periods: 
1 January 1976 to 1 January 1977 
2 January 1977 to 1 January 1978 and 
2 January 1978 to 1 January 1979. 
What was the: 
number and 
nature of the air carriers at the centre for each of the same periods. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Airworthiness Advisory Circular (No. 106- November 1978) relating to fire hazards arising through fuel leaks in Queenair and Twin Bonanza aircraft. 
If so, what was the specific nature of the incidents referred to in the report. 
On what dates, at what locations and by whom was each of the aircraft operated when each of the incidents occurred. 
What immediate action has been taken by his Department to reduce the particularly hazardous level of the leaks. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 March 1 979: 
What loans to the Australian Shipping Commission were outstanding as at 30 June 1978. 
Who was the lender in each case. 
) At what date was each loan scheduled to mature. 
What were the terms of borrowing for each loan. 
What was the exchange rate profit or loss incurred by the Commission in each year since it commenced borrowing abroad. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
What action has been taken to implement the recommendation contained in the Bureau of Transport Economics Report entitled 'The 2CM Freight Wagon Bogie- an Appraisal' that additional study be conducted into (a) optimum combinations of wheels and brake blocks, (b) derailment risk evaluation by means of the introduction of sample 2CM Bogies onto all standard gauge networks in Australia, (c) the development of a suitable ride standard or bogie performance standard, (d) the relative track forces imposed by 2CM Bogies and 3 piece bogies, (e) track deterioration and (0 the examination and extension of ANZR freight bogie standards. 
When will the results of any additional research be made public 
-The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to conclude agreements with the States of New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia for the provision of $70m to those States during the years 1978-79 to 1982-83 for the upgrading of their mainline railway networks. It should be noted that $3m was appropriated for that purpose in Appropriation Act (No. 2 ) 1 978-79 leaving a remainder of $67m to be made available to the States during the years 1979-80 to 1982-83. The annual amounts to be made available are to be determined in light of each year's budgetary commitments. 
At the 1977 election campaign, the Australian Labor Party and major coalition parties each advocated support for the provision of financial assistance to the States for the upgrading of their mainline railway networks. In principle then, there is a bi-partisan approach to the major objective of the Bill, hence the Opposition will not be opposing the Bill. However, the Opposition believes that the sum of $3m made available to the States this year is totally inadequate and that the provision of financial assistance by way of section 96 interest bearing grants is a repudiation of the Government's 1977 election promise. At that time the clear impression given to the electorate was that the contribution to be made by this Government would be in the form of non-repayable grants. Accordingly, at a later stage I will move an amendment expressing our disapproval of those aspects of the legislation. 
Clause 4 ( 1 ) of the Bill provides that the Minister for Transport may declare as main railway lines, for the purposes of this Bill, the principal railway line Unking the capital cities of two adjoining States. Clause 4(2) provides that the Minister for Transport may declare a railway line other than a railway line referred to in Clause 4 ( 1 ) to be a main railway line for purposes of this Bill where he considers it to be of national importance. The lack of definition in this Clause is most unsatisfactory as, in the absence of specific criteria, it provides a clear opportunity for the Minister to distribute Australian taxpayers' dollars to crony States on a favoured State basis. This Parliament will need to be vigilant to ensure that public financial assistance granted under Clause 4 (2) will only be on the responsible basis of national interest priorities and not as a pork barrelling exercise, a practice for which the National Country Party is well renowned. 
The Bill is historic in that after decades of deliberate disinterest in our mainline railway systems by successive conservative governments, recognition is being given at last to the important role railways play in our national transport system. It is important to note that this recognition and provision of financial assistance for their improvement, grew out of the Bureau of Transport Economic's studies of mainline railways commissioned by the Australian Labor Government in 1975. Likewise, the establishment of the Australian Railways Research and Development Organisation, which will advise on the implementation of the provisions of this Bill, flowed from discussions at the Australian Transport Advisory Council. Its participation will contribute to the development of a national approach to our railway needs and a comprehensive assessment of financial priorities for railway expenditure in Australia. 
It is to this Government's discredit that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech did not take the opportunity to inform the Parliament of the performance of the various railway systems, the problems they face, or the benefits to be gained nationally by improving the services they provide. Accordingly, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  two pages each of three tables drawn from the 1978 Commonwealth Grants Commission report, which sets out the financial position of the State government railways and the burden they place on State government Budgets. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="113131197904034_62_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197904034_63_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197904034_64_5.jpg"></graphic>

The table titled 'Railway Revenue', table H-l shows total revenue of State government railways in Australia to be $967,195,000, with a major portion of that revenue, $35 1.875m, being collected by New South Wales. The total railway operating expenditure for those State government railway systems is $ 1.473m. It is worth noting that New South Wales has $575.577m-the highest expenditure- Victoria, $305.277m; Queensland, $330.78 lm; and South Australia, allowing for the transfer to the Australian National Railways Commission, $ 100.733m. We hear from time to time a great deal of discussion about the level of railway deficits in Australia. Table H-3 shows that the total deficit of State government railway systems for the year 1976-77 is $506.3 19m, with again the major deficit- $223. 702m- being in New South Wales. We see that Victoria's deficit is $ 14 1 .366m, Queensland 's is $70.0 1 6m and the others are as shown. 
The discussion of railway deficits should also take into account the magnitude of the operations of railway systems in Australia. Again referring to those tables it is worth noting that during the period 1974-75 to 1976-77 the average employment per 10,000 of mean population arising from railways in New South Wales was 8 1, in Victoria 67, in Queensland 115, in South Australia 65, in Western Australia 87 and in Tasmania, under the transfer arrangements, 49. If we look at that same table, those figures in the main are an improvement in some cases on the period from 1969-70 to 1971-72. The  Australian Year Book  for 1975-76 shows that the government railway systems carried a total of 104,355,000 tonnes of goods and materials in that year. 
Similarly, the Minister for Transport gave no indication of the future role of the Australian National Railway Commission in association with the upgraded mainline State systems. He neglected to mention the necessity to coordinate, on a national basis, the various modes of transport services. Both government and private sector bodies see an urgent need for upgrading main rail lines. 
Recently the Australian Chamber of Shipping in a report on the shipping industry highlighted the importance of adequate and efficient rail links to our major ports. In respect of the provision of rail links to ports, the report stated in part: 
There is ample evidence to suggest an urgent need to extend into some major ports the Australian standard gauge rail system. The Chamber considers that the provision of standard gauge railway services is a question of major national concern bearing in mind the need to ensure that port and trading facilities are: 
flexible and able to use local and interstate rail vehicles; 
easily accessible from the point of view of a national rail linkage in the light of future defence considerations. 
Referring to port development at Fisherman Islands at the mouth of the Brisbane River the Chamber stated: 
This new port facility, which is currently still under construction, will be faced with a major inbuilt constraint from the very beginning. 
Turning to Melbourne the report stated: 
A standard gauge rail link from Dynon Road into the important Swanson Dock area of the port of Melbourne should receive attention. Even more important is a standard gauge link into the Webb Dock area. 
Rolling stock has not always been available to meet demand when it has been found necessary from time to time (due to industrial action for some other reason) to off-load containers at a port other than that originally intended. 
As far as we can ascertain State railways are losing considerable revenue from this shortcoming, in addition to which an unnecessarily high number of shipping containers which could then move by rail are in fact being moved by road. 
The Chamber of Shipping in its report has emphasised the urgency of improving feeder services to our ports and thus the need for Federal assistance. It is a view that the Opposition supports as being of national importance. 

 Mr L. E. Marks, the Executive Director of Brambles Holdings Ltd, a major road freight operator in his address to the Transport Outlook Conference last September, also pointed to the need for the upgrading of mainline railway services. Referring to modal imbalance in the Transport Industry he said: 
The freight forwarding industry claims that if the correct rail vehicles were available and the system had the capacity to handle increased volumes, and if the freight forwarders as an industry, could achieve dialogue with one responsible management team on the railway side, there could be a reduction of areas of costly friction and unproductive competition, and that forwarders could well be able to influence over 2S-S0 per cent more traffic to the inter-system railway network. 
He went on to say: 
It is vitally important to the national economy that in conjunction with other modes, the railways effectively fill the role for which they are best suited. Historically they have played a major part in the general development of Australia and its economic progress. However, it has become a matter of increasing concern and alarm with major rail users that unless some immediate and decisive steps are taken to halt and reverse the trends, the system will fail in its role and the consequence will be extremely serious. 
The Bureau of Transport Economics, in its evaluation of proposals for the upgrading of the Melbourne-Sydney rail link, estimated that the calculated rate of return on investment in upgrading was in excess of 30 per cent for both the New South Wales and Victorian sections. It estimated the cost of extending all crossing loops in New South Wales to 915 metres and improving the signalling system by the introduction of centralised traffic control would be $2. 4m expressed in 1973 prices. The construction of six new crossing loops prior to 1982 at a cost, again in 1973 prices, of $1. 52m was seen as the most effective way to overcome rail congestion on the Victorian section. The total cost in 1973 prices for the Sydney-Melbourne project was estimated at $3. 92m; those works would cost at today's prices $7.84m. The Bureau of Transport Economics found that, between Melbourne and Serviceton, near where the Adelaide line crosses the South Australian border, extension of crossing loops would yield a return of over 30 per cent and the introduction of centralised traffic control between 15 per cent and 20 per cent. This project would cost $6.2m in 1973 prices or $ 12.4m at today's prices. 
The Sydney to Brisbane route, one of the most congested main lines in Australia, could also best be upgraded by the provision of extended crossing loops and centralised traffic control at a 1976 cost of $21.1 lm according to the BTE or $26.84m at today's prices. It it worth noting that these BTE studies were quite strict in their definition of what they regarded as 'upgrading works'. The Sydney-Brisbane report, for example, specifically excluded from consideration the replacement or renewal of wooden bridges. The condition of these bridges necessitates special restrictions which delay the main passenger train, the Brisbane Limited, by 30 minutes. I intend no criticism of the Bureau of Transport Economics, but I suggest that the replacement of such structures should be undertaken if a really worthwhile service is desired. 
The Public Transport Commission is currently committed to a five-year program costing $200m to upgrade New South Wales mainlines, illustrating the high priority accorded track upgrading by the New South Wales Government. Over $43m was spent in the first year of that program. Over 500 new staff were taken on exclusively for track upgrading, and 281 major mechanised track machines valued at $7.6m were purchased, thus ensuring the highest possible productivity on the project. Furthermore, the New South Wales Government has allocated an additional $240m to its total commitment of $ 1,000m for public transport development to allow for inflation. Even the Commonwealth Minister for Transport recognises that despite the natural advantages that rail systems have, especially in the carriage of bulk freight, the situation in Australia is not satisfactory. 
At an Australian National Railways locomotive naming ceremony in Adelaide about two years ago the Minister said: 
It is disquieting that representatives of the Road Transport Industry, rail's competitor, are telling me that something must be done to improve our rail system. 
Road hauliers, he added, are unable to handle the volume of freight being diverted from the railways, and the position would get worse. That was said almost two years ago. Although most attention by professional transport economists and industry groups has been aimed at the freight task performed by the railways, the longsuffering rail passenger stands to benefit by improvement of our national rail system. 
I would like at this point to use the example of passenger rail services to the national capital to illustrate this point. The Canberra trains at present are run as an integral part of the through services from Sydney Central Station to Cooma. The run operates at a loss but I understand that the Queanbeyan to Cooma stretch is responsible for the greater proportion of this deficit. Between Sydney and Canberra, demand frequently exceeds supply, excess passengers being forced to catch the Inter-Capital Daylight to Yass Junction, thence a bus to the capital. The Public Transport Commission has announced that it wishes to introduce a high speed train to Canberra using technology which has proved highly successful in the United Kingdom. A report on the proposal is in preparation and I understand that it should be in the hands of the New South Wales Minister for Transport in about three months. Based on the experience of the British high speed trains, it should be possible to reduce the journey time from the centre of Sydney to Canberra to about three hours. I emphasise the centre of Sydney', as those who regularly travel north will know only too well the nightmare a motorist faces in traversing Sydney's southern suburbs, whether from Mascot airport or the major highways in the city area. High speed trains to Canberra not only could win patronage from air and road but also would generate additional travel demand because of the superior standards offered. Further, we could expect fewer road fatalities, less requirement for land for road improvements and less despoliation of the environment. 
If a significant number of motorists could be attracted to modern trains, worthwhile energy savings would result. Based again on British experience, a high speed train would use about 4 litres of fuel per person on the Canberra run. A car attaining 20 miles per gallon would consume about 45 litres per person. If a significant number of air passengers were attracted to high speed train services pressure for a second airport in Sydney could well be eased. These savings may not benefit the railways or their passengers directly, but are most meaningful in the national sense. It is both for this reason and because the improvements would be in services to the national capital that the Australian Government is duty bound to provide worthwhile assistance to the Public Transport Commission in the development of this project. 
Another project recently announced by the Public Transport Commission which warrants the attention of this Parliament is that of the electrification of the Gosford to Newcastle rail line. Most of this route forms part of the inter-capital link to Brisbane. It traverses rugged country and is heavily used by both passenger and freight trains. As such, it is important to the economies of both the State of New South Wales and the nation. Electric inter-urban passenger trains are at present able to reach Gosford which is a little under half way from Sydney to Newcastle. The extension of this service will bring a long overdue improvement in travelling conditions to the city of Newcastle. 
Whilst we hear from time to time many comments in respect of the Japanese Shinkansen or bullet trains, little mention is made of the quality and performance of the British high speed trains. Last year I had the opportunity to travel on the London to Bristol service, a distance of 109 miles. That train travels at 125 miles per hour, the same speed as the Japanese Shinkansen, and I found the English train a quieter train, a more comfortable ride and, if anything, better than the much vaunted Japanese bullet service. That is the kind of service that this Government ought to be introducing, as I mentioned earlier, on the inter-capital services in Australia, and particularly on the Sydney to Canberra track. 
The rigorous approach adopted in New South Wales and in Western Australia contrasts with the dilly-dallying of the Australian Minister for Transport. In Western Australia Westrail has gone it alone in upgrading the 488-kilometre Kwinana to Koolyanobbing railway line. A Bureau of Transport Economics report disclosed that although no capacity restraints may be envisaged on the line, severe and continuing track deterioration is occurring as a result of heavy axle loads in iron ore and wheat trades. Unless a large scale rehabilitation of the line were undertaken, severe operating restrictions would become necessary. In 1977, before this study was published, Westrail was reported to be attempting to extract financial assistance from the Australian Government. Western Australia has now gained permission to float its own loan to cover the program which at $65m costs almost as much as the total sum to be provided by this Government for five years and to be shared between the four States itemised in the Bill. The laissez-faire transport policy of earlier conservative governments and the present Government has cost this nation dearly. Not only in the Western Australian case did the BTE find an urgent start to be justified, but also in all cases the greatest economic return was to be had from an immediate start. 
The findings relating to the Sydney to Brisbane route were released two years ago, whilst those concerning the SydneyMelbourneServiceton route were presented to the Parliament over three years ago. They have been gathering dust, therefore, for almost as long as the present coalition Government has been in power. On the Melbourne to Serviceton line, savings in railways costs alone would virtually pay for the upgrading. So, what has been the economic, let alone the social, cost of that long delay? How far does the Minister for Transport expect $70m to go between four States? I want to emphasise the fact that the need for rail upgrading goes much further than the routes studied by the BTE. The Bureau said of the Sydney to Melbourne project: 
There is no point in upgrading the main line if this action simply shifts the bottleneck to the terminals. 
Similar warnings were sounded in other cases. Yet half a decade has now elapsed since the Bureau of Transport Economics recommended the acceleration of construction of the Acacia Ridge freight terminal in Brisbane. The Bureau noted: 
It is becoming increasingly apparent that terminal facilities are a key to efficient operation of the Australian railway system. 
Excessive delays to rolling stock moving into Brisbane were expected soon to exceed 4,000 wagon days per week. This would represent a fleet of wagons worth over $ 10m, again graphically illustrating the economic cost of failure to act decisively. I was pleased to receive today a response from the Minister for Transport to a question I placed on notice about the Acacia Ridge rail freight terminal. In his reply the Minister said that he has now been informed by the Queensland Government that it has decided to proceed with the upgrading of the Acacia Ridge rail freight terminal. He said that assistance has been sought for this project within the $70m allocated in the five year assistance program. Let me dwell on that point for a moment. 
Whilst this legislation provides for agreements between the States referred to in the Bill, no indication whatsoever has been given of how the $3m to be provided this year is to be allocated. Not one iota of information has been put forward to indicate how the $3m is to be apportioned and, therefore, in respect of the Acacia Ridge freight terminal one would expect very little money to come out of this Government this year, urgent though the project is. One would have thought that the Minister for Transport in the almost four years he has had in government would have been able to use his good offices with his own party colleagues in Queensland to get that project moving more quickly. 
The delay in introducing this legislation illustrates how out of step with reality the Government is. The rail industry stands on the threshhold of a great rebirth, and yet we see a repetition of the timid approach by this conservative government to urban public transport financing- in other words, transport on the never never'. The Minister promised $300m for urban public transport, and a few months ago snatched $25m back from the hands of the States due, he said, to 'wider budgetary considerations'. Now we have another promise, a promise of $70m over five years. But how much are the States to get in this first year? It is not a nonrepayable grant. The $70m is repayable with interest. 
Under conservative governments railways have been a forgotten industry. Throughout 23 years of Federal conservative rule, between 1949 and 1972, the only significant Federal contribution towards country rail improvements was for gauge standardisation, and that was based on groundwork prepared by the Chifley Labor Government. Now we see a double-dealing game of deception being played by the conservatives. Whilst attempting to claim the credit for rail upgrading by means of this paltry sum offered, they are in reality turning back the clock to the do nothing days of the Menzies era. But this attempt at deception will not fool the States who are being forced to shoulder the burden themselves. They know well enough that, if provision of $70m were undertaken consistently over five years, they would get $ 14m per annum. The Slim they will not see this year will be worth only $ 10m next year, if they see it then. As I mentioned earlier, the New South Wales Government has made a substantial budgetary allocation to allow for the effects on its program of the inflation that this Government has failed to cure, despite the most heartless, draconian measures. Ultimately, the conservative deceptions will not fool members of the public who have to use our main lines either. 
The need to improve our main rail lines is today more urgent than it was during the Menzies era. We now know that by 1985 about half of our oil supplies will be imported and that this will result in an import bill, based on current prices, of over $2,000m compared with $800m in 1975-76. Over 60 per cent of our primary oil requirements go to transport. Transport is almost totally dependent on oil-based energy. The rail mode, however, is not only more energy efficient than its main competitor, road, but is eminently suitable for electrification. My colleague, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  will make some reference to that in his contribution tomorrow. 
Nicholas Clark and Associates found that in 1970-71 the rail mode used 8 per cent of transport energy, but moved 29 per cent of freight in Australia. Road, on the other hand, consumed 79 per cent of energy but moved 20 per cent of freight. Of even greater significance was the fact that sea also consumed 8 per cent of domestic transport energy, but moved 51 per cent of freight. 
The implications for national transport planning are obvious. Investment must be directed to those areas of greatest resource efficiency if we are to make best use of our energy reserves. We lack extensive oil reserves but are richly endowed with black and brown coal and, for longer term development, the 'raw materials' for solar and tidal power. It should also be remembered that there is increasing demand world wide for the lighter fractions of crude oil, that is gasoline, aviation fuel, and distillates. Conversely, there is expected to be a surplus of heavy fuel oil. Transport energy planning should take account of this aspect also, which points to increased use, possibly of rail but and also of shipping. Thus there is an urgent need for national research, planning and policy making based on the inter-related areas of energy, transportation and urban and regional development. 
Briefly I want to bring to the Minister's attention again the failure of the Government to produce any information whatsoever in respect of the Australian National Railways Commission and to highlight the fact that we have not yet received any accounts or reports from the Australian National Railways Commission later than the report for 1974-75. 1 can do little better than remind him of the comments of his colleague,  Senator Rae,  in the Senate on 2 1 March, when he asked for at least some information on the position of the Australian National Railways Commission and whether the Commission proposed to get around to letting us know what it has been doing all these years. 
The Opposition welcomes the belated appearance of this Bill, but finds certain of the provisions contained within it wholly unsatisfactory. Accordingly I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that- 
1 ) the provision of financial assistance by section 96 interest bearing repayable grants is a repudiation of the Government's 1 977 Election promise to contribute to the cost of upgrading mainline rail links in the light of the clear impression then given that assistance would be by way of non-repayable grants, and 
the provision of $3m to the States for 1978-79 under this Bill (a) is abysmally inadequate and an abrogation of Australian Government responsibility for the transportation of passengers and freight on routes of national significance, and (b) is wholly inconsistent with an effective approach to the upgrading of mainline railway networks as an essential part of a responsible National Energy Conservation Program'. 
I mentioned at the outset that in terms of the principal object of this Bill there is a bipartisan approach from the chamber. We welcome the Bill to that extent. We criticise the inadequacy of the amount of money being made available this year, and we criticise the inadequacy of the $70m being made available over the longer period. It should be remembered that in this financial year the Government will be collecting from motorists in petrol tax and associated charges, $2, 300m. In those circumstances one would have thought that if the Government had a balanced, proper and responsible energy conservation policy and a planned program, provision of funding for railways to enable this nation to take advantage of its fuel efficiency would be greater. Whilst we welcome the Bill, we feel that the amount being provided this year is totally inadequate and the amount for the total five-year period should be increased. I commend the amendment to the House. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 2 1 November: 
1 ) Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval, (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) 1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Does his Department or any agency under his control prepare an index of  Hansard. 
) What is the form of each index. 
3 ) How recent is each index. 
To what persons, Departments or agencies are the indices made available. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 February 1979: 
1 ) How many  Yankee  Walter fire trucks are operated by his Department and when did each come into service. 
What was the cost of: 
each fire truck, 
repairs and 
maintenance of each truck since the trucks were purchased. 
Where is each fire truck located and for what period has each truck been out of service due to breakdowns etc., since the trucks came into operation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) Has the recommendation of the Bureau of Transport Economics Report on the development of a rail freight terminal at Acacia Ridge, Brisbane, that construction be accelerated from 15 to 5 years, been implemented; if not, why not. 
Is the Acacia Ridge freight terminal project still desirable. 
3 ) Have the findings of the report been affected by ( a ) the development of Fisherman Island as the major port for Brisbane or (b) the completion of the cross river rail link in the city of Brisbane. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendations of the Bureau of Transport Economics report on the upgrading of the main rail lines (a) between Sydney and Brisbane, (b) between Sydney and Melbourne (c) between Melbourne and Serviceton, (d) between Adelaide and Serviceton and (e) on the trans Australia route. 
What Federal sums have been allocated to each project. 
When is it expected that each project will be completed. 
Will specific legislation be necessary to authorise financial assistance for each of the projects; if so, what is the nature of the legislation and what is the expected date of its introduction. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that the Commonwealth Government make representations at an International level to have the restricted zones around Australian offshore oil platforms extended to a distance of 2.5 nautical miles. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that the Commonwealth Government take immediate steps to ratify the International Convention on Civil Liability for 
Oil Pollution Damage 1969 and the International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage 1971. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
1 ) What specific works are expected to be constructed on the Tarcoola/Alice Springs rail project during 1978-79. 
What is the total expenditure on the Tarcoola/Alice Springs line (a) to date and (b) anticipated for its completion. 
When will the Tarcoola/Alice Springs project be completed. 
-The statement of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on the Government's proposed deferment of the third stage of Australian Design Rule 27A should be noted primarily for its inaccuracies, its broad generalisations and its almost complete lack of supporting evidence. 
-Generous but factual. The Fraser Government's decision to press for the deferral of the third stage of Austraiian Design Rule 27a amounts in short to a sell-out to financial interests of the shareholders of foreign-based motor vehicle manufacturers at the expense of the health of millions of Australian urban dwellers and urban employees. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member will cease interjecting or he will not be here either. 
-May I have the time lost through that interjection added to my speaking time? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did he say in a press release dated 27 January 1977, that he was hopeful that a cheaper fare package could be offered for travel between Australia and Japan. 
Did he also say that representatives of Qantas and Japan Airlines would shortly hold discussions aimed at reaching agreement for a lower air fare between the two countries. 
If so, (a) have the discussions been held, (b) what were the results of those discussions, (c) what is the name and classification of each representative of the airlines attending the discussions, (d) where and on what dates have the discussions been held since 27 January 1977 and (e) what was the cost of (i) travel, (ii) accommodation and (itf) other expenditure in respect of each Australian representative. 
If the discussions have not been held, when does he anticipate they will be held. 
When does he expect to make an announcement on a reduced fare on the Australia-Japan route. 
What is the current lowest return fare from Sydney to Tokyo. 
What is the distance between Sydney and Tokyo. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 November 1 978: 
I ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement in the  Australian  of 1 8 October 1 978, by the West Australian State Director of the Department of Transport,  Mr Ellis  Kiel, that it was departmental policy to clamp down on cut rate fares outside Federal Government guidelines. 
If so, (a) to which guidelines was  Mr Kiel  referring, and (b) when were the guidelines established. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) What travel organisations have been visited by Commonwealth Police in association with his Department's exercise of its responsibilities under Air Navigation Regulation 106a. 
On what dates and at what locations were the visits made. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that in situations where dispersants from the National Plan stockpile are used, a report be presented to his Department, as controller of the National Plan, to enable the compilation of data on the usage and success of dispersants. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that his Department continue to monitor international developments in recovery equipment to determine suitability for the Australian situation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that he determine an equitable basis for contribution from offshore and land-based installations to the National Plan to Combat Pollution of the Sea by Oil, 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that he evaluate alternative levy schemes to determine the most equitable and administratively effective system of levying shipping interests. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that his Department, in consultation with the Department of National Development and the Petroleum Institute Environmental Conservation Executive, prepare an operational plan which will facilitate the movement and use of National Plan resources in the event of a pollution incident caused by offshore operations or shore based facilities. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that the Commonwealth Government and the oil industry undertake a joint research project on the toxicity of dispersants and oil/dispersant mixtures on Australian species of marine flora and fauna under Australian conditions. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
Which Tasmanian rail passenger and/or freight services have been (a) withdrawn and (b) curtailed since the transfer of the Tasmanian Government Railways to the Australian National Railways Commission. 
What was the (a) date of and (b) reason for the withdrawal or curtailment in each case. 
What additional rail services have been established in Tasmania since the transfer. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
1 ) How many compensatable accidents occurred during 1977-78 which were charges against his Department's compensation appropriation. 
What were the principal types of compensatable accidents. 
Can he provide details of the amount of compensation paid in each case; if not, what were the bottom, middle and top ranges of compensation paid. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March, 1 979: 
Why was an additional $1 13,371 provided under subdivision 658.2, item 04, of his Department's estimates of expenditure for 1978-79 (Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1978-79, page 127). 
With whom are these funds expected to be expended and for what specific purpose in each case. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
1 ) Why was no variation in funds proposed' for promotion of road safety practices under Division 958, Item 01, of his Department's estimates of expenditure for 1978-79 (Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1978-79, page 25). 
Will this result in a drop in the real spending power available to the States under this item for 1 978-79. 
How much did each State request 'in total for expenditure under this item. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 March 1 979: 
1 ) Why has the introduction into service of the two new Australian National Line bulk carriers,  Australian Purpose  and  Australian Progress  been delayed for nearly two years. 
Is it a fact that ANL made an agreement with Japanese steel mills to lay up the two carriers in Norway until 1979 provided they were then employed. 
) When are they likely to be introduced into service. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) When and by what means did he first become aware that a Minister had sought to introduce the practice of arranging with international airlines for cumulative credits to be granted against unused intra-Australian sector travel and then having those accumulated credits converted for use on intra-Australian flights by persons other than the Minister or his staff. 
) What action did he take as a result of this knowledge. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
What action has he taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that he request the Australian Science and Technology Council to examine the need for increased marine science research. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 March 1 979: 
1 ) What is the procedure followed by Ministers when appointees to statutory or other bodies administered by the 
Minister become the subject of criminal charges. 
ls a similar standard observed when the body concerned is responsible to a (a) Liberal Party and (b) National Country Party Minister. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) Will the Australian Government be represented at the German Institute of Shipping Economics international symposium 'Liner Shipping in the Eighties ' to be held in Bremen from 24 to 26 October 1979. 
If so, what will be the nature of the representation and what will be the classification of those persons attending. 
Will agenda and papers from the symposium be made publicly available. 
Will any reports compiled by Australian representatives following the symposium be made public. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) How many persons in each State and Territory have applied for a certificate or a renewal of a certificate under sub-sections 144a ( 1 ) and (4) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since the sub-sections came into operation in October 1977. 
How many applications have been granted. 
How many persons in each State and Territory applied in each year for a certificate or a renewal of a certificate under sub-section 47 (3) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which was in operation between 1956 and 1977. 
How many of those applications were granted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, on notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What action has the Minister taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that the Department of Science and the Environment, in conjunction with the Department of Transport, assess the feasibility of introducing cargo-tagging programs with a view to introducing such a system' to Australia. 
asked. the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, on notice, on 21 February 1979: 
What action has the Minister taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that the Minister assess the use of satellites in the field of detection and monitoring of oil spills to determine their suitability for incorporation in the Australian surveillance network. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. In view of the obvious collapse of his much-stated international civil aviation policy principles in the Association of South East Asian Nations talks at the weekend, I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that Department of Transport officials at the talks were instructed at the weekend to abandon the Government's previous stance and his Department's policy so as to prevent continuing embarrassment to the Prime Minister at the coming United Nations Conference on Trade and Development talks? If not, why was the dramatic change in stance delayed for so long and allowed to create such damage to our ASEAN trading partners? Further, will the Minister now explain precisely how the ASEAN agreement, which has been announced and which deals with the transport of people from 
Australia to Europe by non-originating or terminating carriers, to use his own words, does 'not deviate in any way' from the third and fourth freedom principles which he has espoused so often? Will the same opportunity be afforded now to Air New Zealand? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) What are the names, flag registrations, owners and operators of oil tankers regularly operating in or entering Australian waters which are fitted with the inert gas system designed to prevent disasters such as that which overtook the tanker  Betelgeuse  in Bantry Bay on Monday 10 January 1979. 
Are any systems, besides the inert gas system, in existence or undergoing development which are capable of preventing build-ups of explosive gases in tanker oil storage holds during unloading at shore installations. 
How many cases of fire aboard tankers in Australian waters have been recorded by his Department in each of the last 10 years. 
Which Australian tanker unloading/loading points are located sufficiently close to areas to heavy population so as to constitute a danger to the inhabitants or their property. 
Does he intend to introduce legislation to ensure that all new tankers registered to operate in or enter Australian waters are equipped with the inert gas safety system. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
Who were the specific consulting persons/firms to whom $179,629 was paid in 1977-78 for professional services (Appropriation Act(No. 1 ) 1978-79, page 127). 
What was the amount paid to each person/firm, and for what specific purposes were the services utilised. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 March 1 978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Japanese flag and chartered ore carriers on the round trip from north-west Australia to Japan deliberately made their voyages at reduced speeds during 1978; if so, why. 
What is the normal average time taken on the round trip between north-west Australia and Japan by iron ore carriers. 
What was the average time taken on voyages during 1978. 
Have Japanese flag and chartered ore carriers operating out of Port Hedland, WA been running at higher speeds since January 1 979; if so why. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
Further to his answer to question No. 3 166(Hansard, 29 March 1979, page 1377), with respect to the non-Australian oil tankers inspected by his Depanment in Australian pons between August 1977 and December 1978, (a) at which port was each vessel inspected and (b) what was the deadweight tonnage of each vessel. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
Further to his answer to question No. 3 166 (  Hansard,  29 March 1979, page 1377), on the non-Australian tankers inspected by his Department (a) what was the nation of registration of each vessel, (b) what was the nationality of the vessel 's owner in each case and (c) what was the last port of entry of each vessel prior to its entering an Australian port. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the statement by a representative of the Queensland Coast and Torres Strait Pilot Service, given in evidence to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation during its oil spills inquiry, to the effect that a very large percentage of ships under flags of convenience have absolutely appalling standards both in trained navigating personnel and in equipment. 
If so, what is the nature of sub-standard items of equipment alluded to aboard flag of convenience vessels. 
What are the training levels aboard the flag of convenience vessels of (a) certificated personnel and (b) noncertificated personnel referred to in evidence to the Committee. 
What are the minimum numbers of (a) certificated personnel and (b) non-certificated personnel required aboard the flag of convenience vessels by the regulations of the countries of registration referred to in evidence to the committee. 
What are the requirements in respect of parts (3) and ( 4) for comparable vessels of Australian registrations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
) Has his attention been drawn to reports that both the New York City Council and the Greater London Council have the intention of reintroducing tram services into their respective cities as a means of combating the present energy crises. 
) Has he received representations from his representative in the Senate,  Senator Chaney,  that his Department make inquiries into the nature of these proposals and the extent to which they may be expected to contribute to energy conservation and transmit its findings to the State Ministers ofTransport. 
If so, (a) when will the inquiries be commenced, (b) by whom will they be conducted, (c) by what means will the findings of the inquiries be communicated to the States, (d) when might the inquiries be completed and (e) will the findings be made public. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 3 April1979: 
What proportion of the $ 1.6m appropriated to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet in the1978-79 Budget for the conveyance of the Governor-General, Ministers of State and others by Royal Australian Air Force and Department of Transport aircraft, is allocated to the Governor-General. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 21 November1978: 
) Under what circumstances are his (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
) What is the additional cost per journey. 
How many officers of his Department (a) sought approval (b) were granted approval and (c) were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during (i)1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii)1978-79 to date. 
How many officers from his Department or personal staff have travelled on Concorde aircraft without seeking approval. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 March1979: 
) Is it a fact that first class air fares of the Australian domestic airlines are 25 per cent higher than economy class fares. 
Is it also a fact that the margin of 23 per cent between Australian domestic economy class and first class fares is low by world standards. 
Are economy class passengers on the Australian domestic airlines subsidising first class passengers to a greater degree than is the case abroad; if not, why not. 
Can he state by what percentage Australian domestic economy class air fares could be reduced, without reducing airline revenues, if the margin of 25 per cent between economy class and first class fares were to be increased to a level comparable to the upper margins prevailing to (a) Canada, ( b ) the United States of America and (c) Europe. 
) Will the Government act on the recommendation contained in Part1 of the Report of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review that a detailed evaluation should be undertaken which takes account of real resource opportunity costs with a view to determining appropriate fare differentials between the various categories of fare types. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Did his Department make a submission to the Review of Australia 's International Civil Aviation Policy. 
If so, (a) what was the substance of the submission and (b) will he release it for the benefit of the Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for National Development. It relates to the serious disruption being caused to the general aviation industry in country air services by the enormous price increases and the unavailability of Avgas fuel for pistonengine aircraft. Is he aware that supplies of Avgas are not available to some operators at a wide range of Australian airports, resulting in aircraft standing idle, thus incurring heavy losses and aircrews being likely to be stood down from duty? Is he aware that some oil companies have instituted a preferential system of rationing of Avgas which gives priority in supply to charter aircraft which may be used for pleasure purposes before aircraft which are used in association with normal commercial activities? Further, has the Minister approved the rationing system in operation? Has he been advised of the sharply reduced production of Avgas available from the Altona refinery of Mobil Oil Australia Ltd? Finally, in view of the heavy losses being incurred by aircraft operators and the increasing threat of lay-offs, will he take urgent action to ensure that adequate supplies of Avgas are made available and that current supplies are shared fairly within the general aviation industry? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a letter to the  Launceston Examiner  of20 April 1977 in which the Minister for National Development gave an assurance that the Tasman Limited rail service would be retained, as it was an integral part of the Tasmanian tourist industry. 
If so, why has this rail service been discontinued. 
Was this rail service an integral part of the Tasmanian tourist industry; if not, why not. 
What action has the Minister for National Development taken with him to restore this rail service. 
-The purpose of Supply Bills (No. 1 ) and (No. 2 ) 1 979-80 is to provide an interim appropriation of $4,061m and $754m respectively for the provision of government services during the period 1 July 1979 to 30 November 1979. Each Bill includes an amount of $ 100m by way of Advance to the Minister for Finance under the usual conditions. I am sorry that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is not in the chamber at the moment as these are his Bills and he is responsible for the passage of them through the House. 
This debate provides an opportunity for a wide ranging discussion on matters relating to public affairs. I support the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  which reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Government stands condemned for continuing to pursue a restrictive fiscal policy which has (a) greatly increased unemployment; (b) restricted economic growth; (c) failed to control inflation; (d) reduced living standards of the great majority of the Australian population; (e) severely restricted important government programs, and (f) increased inequality and poverty in the community, and accordingly calls on the Government to produce a budget for the next financial year which implements an alternative program designed to promote employment, living standards and equity'. 
Over the past week we have witnessed an extraordinary exercise in political gymnastics and deception by the Fraser Government over its consideration of the sale to private enterprise of the Australian people's domestic airline, TransAustralia Airlines. In the midst of a discussion on this matter I was asked by a citizen whether I wanted to buy shares in TAA. My response was that I already own TAA, as I do in common with all other Australians.  Senator Rae  of another place attracted notoriety as the proposer of the idea, when in fact the man who first revealed that the sale was under consideration and who has maintained a stoney silence since is the Minister for Finance who is absent from the chamber. 
Let me recap the recent events of the TAA issue. I quote from a Parliamentary Library transcript of the Australian Broadcasting Commission program,  PM,  of 1 5 May which reads: 
Huw Evans:- 'The Federal Government is to consider selling Trans-Australia Airlines. The proposal has been put forward by  Senator Peter  Rae who is  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations'. 
At no stage in the broadcast interview did  Senator Rae  refute or qualify the statement that the Government was to consider selling TAA. In fact, in answer to a question from the interviewer, Peter Cave, asking how far these proposals had advanced,  Senator Peter  Rae replied: 
I think probably they're at the commencement stage but I've had a tremendous amount of encouragement from people within the Government parties. They're indicating to me that at any time that matter comes for debate or for a vote that they U be supporting me. 
The next day, with typical bumble-footedness, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  in his accident-prone style tumbled into the discussion. When questioned about the sale of TAA, he told Huw Evans of the ABC's program: 
All I know about this question is the fact that  Senator Rae's  Committee has recommended that the Government should look at the disposal of a number of statutory corporations and businesses owned by the Government and TAA is one of them. 
He went on to say that there had been no informal discussions on the sale between Ministers and said: 
Let me make the further point that as a result of  Senator Rae's  paper, of course the Government will now have to look at the question of the ownership of TAA. 
The next day, he admitted that his statement of the previous day had been incorrect. Following the wide impression that had been gained that the Senate Committee on Finance and Government Operations had recommended the consideration of the sale of TAA, last Tuesday  Senator Rae  told the Senate, as recorded at page 1 9 1 8 of the Senate  Hansard  of 72 May 1 979: 1 confirm what  Senator McClelland  has said, that is, that at no time has the Committee suggested the sale of TransAustralia Airlines. I also confirm that I have not suggested in any way that the Committee has made such a recommendation. 
Why then did the Minister for Transport state that such a recommendation had been made? I will return to that point later. Earlier in the same day the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Carrick,  had said: 
As far as I am aware, there is no suggestion at all that there is any consideration by the Federal Government of any contemplation to sell TAA or any other such authority. Let me put that at rest. 
I believe that an informal discussion, in which the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  participated, was held some weeks ago on the possible sale of TAA. That informal discussion explains the apparently strange statement of the Minister for Transport, later retracted, and the stoney silence of the Minister for Finance. 
But let us go back to the beginning. 
As the honourable member for Canberra said, TAA is a good airline. On 23 April 1979 the  Newcastle Morning Herald,  in an article entitled 'TAA sale under review: Robinson ', had this to say: 
The Federal Government was considering the possibility of selling some of its statutory authorities to private enterprise, the Minister for Finance,  Mr Robinson,  told the council yesterday. 
That council was the Federal Liberal Council which met in Perth. The article continued: 
He had been asked about moves to sell such authorities, particularly TAA. He said the matter was under review. 

 Mr Robinson said that if the Government decided to relinquish any statutory authorities to the private sector, the move could result in a lessening of demand on Government spending. 
That is a nonsense because TAA does not draw on the Budget and any disposal of TAA would not affect government expenditure. Accordingly, on 8 May I placed on notice Question No. 3850. Without going through the literal text of it, I asked the Minister for Finance whether his attention had been drawn to the report and whether there was any substance to the report. Further, I asked him whether the sale of TAA and other statutory authorities would result in a lessening demand on government spending and, if so, what the reduction would be and in respect of which authorities. To date I have had no answer. There has been no claim that the report was inaccurate. We all remember the strident protestations of the Minister for Finance in respect of boundary rigging and the inquiry by a royal commission into the Queensland electoral redistribution. We all remember how forceful the Minister for Finance was on that matter. I am quite satisfied that if the newspaper report which, I understand, came from Australian Associated Press, was incorrect, the report would have been denied by the Minister long before this and by now I would have had a reply to my question on notice. He has had 3 1 days in which to reply and he has not said a word. The Minister for Transport first denied knowledge of the issue. 
He said that the Senate committee recommended it. Then he said that he was wrong.  Senator Carrick  said last Tuesday that there was no consideration of the sale of TAA or any other authority. Who is telling the truth? Is it  Senator Rae,  the Minister for Transport in his first version, the Minister for Transport in his second, revised version, the Minister for Finance in the newspaper report and in his statement to the Federal Liberal Council in Perth, or  Senator Carrick?  What is the truth? 
Five weeks ago there was a raid in the share market on TAA's partner in the two-airlines agreement, Ansett Airlines of Australia. Similarly, there is a proposal before the Government to amalgamate TAA and Qantas Airways Ltd from December 1980. From the background to these two points there is no doubt that this is an attempt by the cronies and friends of the Government, to try to jump in on TAA- the people's own property, a successful and efficient airline- and, in some way, head off any move that the Government may make to amalgamate TAA and Qantas. What has to be stressed is that aviation services are critical to our country. TAA pioneered many of the services. In association with its partner, Ansett, under the two-airlines agreement it has developed many of the services. I am not talking about present policy. That is the historial position. TAA should not be up for grabs, backroom deals or snide conferences by the Government or any associates of the Government. The responsibility is now before the Minister for Finance who is absent from this debate. He is the critical figure in this issue. He has to come clean. I challenge him to make a clear and unequivocal statement that Trans-Australia Airlines is not being considered for sale. If the Government wants to reduce its expenditure it can do it in other areas. 
I will come to them in a moment. The honourable member should be patient. I want the Minister to explain also to Parliament and the nation how he proposes to reduce government expenditure by selling off TAA. The honourable member for Moore wants to know how to reduce expenditure. The Government should sell off its second international airline. It should not proceed with expenditure on the flying hotels, the VIP squadron of Boeing 707s. Let us deal with that airlinethe one with which the people are concernedthe wanton extravagance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his indulgence in buying two flying hotels. I warned the Government earlier this year of the national scandal it was creating by spending $40m on a VIP reequipment program. It is now a national scandal, so much so that it erupted in a bitter dog fight and fracas in the Government Party room yesterday. The squandering of tens of millions of dollars to pander to the Prime Minister's penchant for fast aeroplanes, luxury limousines and exclusive aerial chefs evidences the obscene expenditure priorities of this Government. The Australian taxpayer just cannot afford the extravagances of this Government, nor can it afford a Prime Minister with these tastes. I urge honourable members opposite with some sense to join  Senator Townley,  take a hold of themselves and put an end to this wanton extravagance. 
Yesterday, a  Canberra Times  article by Frank Cranston, a respected correspondent, exposed the Government's deceit about the true cost of the Prime Minister's flying hotels. That article mentioned a figure of $30m. I have made my own inquiries. There is no doubt in my mind that if the Government is to modify those aircraft to meet civilian noise standards the cost of that modification will be at least $30m and probably well in excess of that figure. More likely it will be $40m. That issue did not stir the backbenchers yesterday. I refer to the article in the  Australian  yesterday. It was headed 'Dogfight over VIP Boeings'.  Senator Townley,  the one man on the Government side of the chamber in the other place with some rationality and sense of responsibility, who is not concerned about expanding unemployment but is concerned about saving money and responsible expenditure, was pilloried and accused of disloyalty by those who sit opposite. The Melbourne  Age  of today's date contains an article headed 'backbench plea to alter VIP rules'. What is the mass of back benchers complaining about? They are not complaining about this extravagance. They are screaming because they cannot also use the VIP planes. They are claiming that they were left behind in Perth. It is not fair for the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to fly off and leave them behind. Here is the responsibility and arrogance of these people who want to cut out unemployment benefit, cut back on pensions, abolish indexation but make available unlimited money for flying hotels and VIP flights for backbenchers. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  on the other hand has been very wise. He has stayed right out of it. The unfortunate Minister for Transport yesterday tumbled into the debate. He had to carry the can for the Prime Minister and try to defend the indefensible. There is no way that the Australian people can be convinced that this kind of expenditure is justified. Honourable members opposite know as well as we on this side of the chamber know that there is no proper responsible justification for the Government's squandering and extravagance. I neglected to mention earlier a point in respect of the Minister for Transport's silence on the disposal of TAA. He told a  PM  program that he did not know anything about it. He denied any knowledge of the sale of TAA. I had written to him on 2 May in respect of the article about  Mr Robinson  which appeared in the  Newcastle Morning Herald.  The Minister for Transport replied to me in writing on 14 May before he spoke on the  PM  program. He said: 
I acknowledge receipt of your recent letter concerning the future of TAA. 
As soon as I have had an opportunity to examine the matter I wilt write to you again. 
Yours sincerely, PETER NIXON 
The Minister knew about the article. He wrote to me about it. When he was asked about it on  PM  he did not know. The next day he said that he was wrong. I add those remarks to what I said earlier in respect of the disposal of TAA. The use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance to pay Qantas an initial amount of $10. 2m for the flying hotels was an abuse of that Advance and a breach of the conventions governing the use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance. I refer to the 173rd report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts concerning expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance. Paragraph 1 .  1 8 of that report is headed ' Conventions relating to the Advances'. It states: 
The Advance appropriations ... do not require that calls should only be made on the Advances in urgent or special circumstances. Parliament has therefore left the use of the Advances to the judgment of the Minister for Finance. 
That is the stoney one. The report continues: 
Because the advances are, in essence, a contingency fund for unforseen expenditure and limited as to amount, steps are taken to guard against departments regarding them as a conveniently available source of finance which lessens the need for the best possible estimating. 
Paragraph 1 .  1 9 of the report states: 
Judgments involving political considerations are a matter for the Minister for Finance- in consultation, as he may wish, with the Prime Minister and other Ministers. 
The real reason for the use of the Advance is not that the purchase of the Boeing flying hotels was an unforseen circumstance; it was a political judgment designed to head off a Senate backbench revolt within Government ranks and to prevent the Parliament debating that item of expenditure and voting upon it separately. Yesterday's Government party room dog fight is proof of Government dissension on the issue.  Senator Townley  said on a  Four Corners  program the other night words to the effect that the Boeings would prove to be an albatross around the Government's neck. That is absolutely true. I ask that the Parliament be given the opportunity to debate and vote separately on any further expenditure on these two aircraft. It should have been given that opportunity in relation to the previous expenditure. I repeat that the Advance to the Minister for Finance is not to be squandered on the Government's extravagances. A few weeks ago we saw in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) a 30 per cent jump in expenditure on ministerial travel and VIP expenses. Under divisions 140 (4) and 504 of Supply Bill (No. 1 ) relating to Ministerial travel abroad and VIP transport, there is an increase of $189,000 over last year's expenditure. The amount has now reached almost $1m. The precise figure is $969,000. That is an increase of 24 per cent on last year's expenditure. Tonight we will hear a statement from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announcing increased income taxes to pay for this kind of extravagance. There has to be a stop to it. 
The last matter I want to mention in this debate is the responsibility of departments to provide accurate information to the Parliament. In the few minutes remaining to me in this debate I want to refer to question No. 3313 which I directed to the Minister for Transport upon notice. It relates to the purchase of ultra large fire tenders or what I describe as 'Yankee' Walter fire trucks. I asked about the cost of them, the cost of repairs and the out of service period.I will deal only with part (3 ) of the question. I asked: 
Where is each fire truck located and for what period has each truck been out of service due to breakdowns et cetera since the trucks came into operation. 
The key words are 'out of service'. I used them in the general sense, that is, when the vehicles were not available and when they were not able to be used in the normal course of fire duties. The answer states that the only out of service times recorded were 17 hours 59 minutes at Brisbane, 5 hours 9 minutes at Adelaide, 105 hours 27 minutes at Darwin and 44 minutes at Mount Isa. The facts are that in every case the period a truck was out of service was much longer. In departmental jargon 'out of service' means when a unit is not on the fire line. The facts are that units were out for 13 days at Brisbane, for eight days at Adelaide and for 45 days at Melbourne. In Canberra the unit has not even come into service, even though I had been told that it had been commissioned for service in February. Units were out for 96 days in Hobart, 95 days in Launceston, 1 1 days in Darwin, 86 days in Mount Isa, 67 days in Coolangatta and 45 days in Sydney. Since the purchase of those vehicles at a cost of $ 1.35m there have been 13 modifications to the equipment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond) Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, 2 1 March 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article entitled   Transport Department defies Cabinet decision'  published in the  Australian Financial Review of  15 March 1979. 
Is there any substance in the claims made that his Department (a) has been refusing to provide the Department of Finance with additional information and (b) has sought additional funds for administrative purposes. 
If so, what are the specific administrative purposes for which additional funds were sought. 
Did his Department maintain that expenses classified as administrative also included operational expenditure items affecting airlines; if so, what were the specific operational items involved and the amounts sought. 
5 ) Has the disagreement with the Department of Finance over the 3 per cent cut in funds for administrative expenditure been resolved; if so, what were the terms of resolution. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
For what precise reasons have the funds available to the States for transport planning and research under Division 958, Item 03, of his Department's estimates of expenditure for 1978-79  (Appropriation Act (No.  2) 1978-79, page 25) been reduced by $1 580 000 and from a $2 Commonwealth to $ 1 States to a dollar for dollar funding basis. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
What specific precautions are taken to prevent any imbalance or contamination of marine ecology in Australia by the discharge of ship 's ballast water taken on at foreign ports. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Government is planning to reimburse international airlines more than $ 1 m arising from airport rental charges levelled 4 years ago; if so why. 
Which international airlines will be reimbursed and what sum will each of the airlines involved receive. 
When will they be reimbursed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) Has an expert from the manufacturers of the Walter ultra large fire trucks commissioned at Australian airports visited Australia to examine defects in the vehicles. 
If so, when did he arrive and who is responsible for his costs. 
What was the specific nature of the faults found in the vehicles. 
What measures are being taken to correct these faults. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1 979: 
1 ) What types of aircraft are to be hired under contract number C2/78/71 for the purposes of coastal surveillance referred to on page 96 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979 from (a) Transwest Air Charter ( WA ) Pty Ltd and ( b ) Executive Airlines Pty Ltd, Vic. 
In what areas will these aircraft regularly operate. 
Will any specialised surveillance equipment be fitted or carried by these craft; if so, what will be its function. 
What is the duration of contract C2/78/7 1. 
By what means were the tasks to be performed by these aircraft previously accomplished. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1 979: 
1 ) For what purpose was the search and rescue equipment supplied under contract number LP 3436 by R.F.D. Co. (Aust.) P/L as referred to on page 96 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979. 
Where will the equipment be located. 
By whom will the equipment be used. 
Is this equipment a replacement of equipment previously in use; if so, in what respects does the equipment covered by contract LP 3436 differ from that previously used and for what reason was it felt necessary to obtain new equipment. 
Is the equipment covered by contract LP 3436 to be introduced in an area and to a task not previously provided with search and rescue equipment; if so, for what reason was it felt necesary to provide these facilities. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1 979: 
1 ) For what purpose has the underwater breathing apparatus been supplied under contract LP 3467 by James North Aust. P/L as referred to on page 97 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979. 
Where will the equipment be located. 
) By whom will it be used. 
Is this apparatus intended to replace equipment previously in use; if so, how does it differ from the old apparatus and why was new equipment purchased. 
If not, why was it felt necessary to purchase new apparatus. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) Where and for what purposes are the circuit modules being purchased under contract C1/78/21, referred to on page 96 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979(G16),tobeused. 
How many modules are being purchased. 
3 ) Are they of Australian manufacture; if not, where were they manufactured. 
Who were the unsuccessful competitors for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1 979: 
1 ) What is the description and purpose of the waveform monitor and rack adaptor being purchased under contract C1/78/81, referred to on page 96 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979 (G16). 
Is it of Australian manufacture; if not, where was it manufactured. 
Who were the unsuccessful competitors for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) At what locations and for what purposes are flight service consoles, tables and consolette referred to in contract C1/78/84 on page 96 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1 979 (G 1 6) to be used. 
Was the equipment manufactured in Australia; if not, where was it manufactured. 
Who were the unsuccessful competitors for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
Where is the foam pump casing being purchased under contract C2/78/125 referred to on page 96 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1 979 (G 1 6) to be used. 
What circumstances have led to the purchase of the casing. 
What is the country of origin of manufacture of the casing. 
Who were the unsuccessful competitors for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1 979: 
1 ) What are the electron tubes being purchased under contracts LP 3216 and LP 3256 and referred to on page 96 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979 (G16). 
How many of each type are being purchased, and where are they to be used. 
) In which country were they manufactured. 
Who were the unsuccessful competitors for the contracts. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) At what location and for what purpose is the video production equipment, contracted for at a cost of $ 1 5,54 1.53 referred to on page 96 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1 979 (G 1 6 ) to be used. 
) What is the expected usage per week of the equipment. 
Who were the unsuccessful tenderers for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1 979: 
1 ) For what specific purposes will the acetylene cylinders referred to in contract C2/78/48 referred to on page 96 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979 (G 16) be utilised. 
What was the comparable cost in the previous period for acetylene cylinders. 
Who were the unsuccessful tenderers for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) For what specific purposes and at what locations will the video cassettes referred to in contract LP3458 on page 96 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979 (G16) be utilised. 
) How many video cassettes are to be supplied. 
Who were the unsuccessful competitors for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 May 1 979; 
Did an incident involving two Boeing 727/200 aircraft occur on the Mascot Airport recently; if so, what were the circumstances .of the incident and what action has he taken in respect of it. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
Did an air safety incident occur recently just east of Melbourne involving a Fokker Friendship aircraft and a light aircraft; if so, (a) what were the circumstances of the incident, (b) what were the weather conditions at the time and (c) what action has he taken in respect of the incident. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 May 1 979: 
Did an air safety incident occur recently near Perth involving a Boeing 727/200 aircraft registered No. VH-RMM and another Boeing 727/200 aircraft; if so, (a) what were the circumstances of the incident and ( b) what action has he taken in respect of it. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 May 1 979: 
To what use will the 20 standard passenger car bogies, tenders for which were called on behalf of Australian National Railways and referred to on page 41 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 1 May 1979, be put. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 May 1 979: 
What was the establishment number of Commonwealth Police in service at each Australian airport as at (a) 31 March 1979, and (b) 30 April 1979. 
Is the number of Commonwealth Police provided at each airport adequate; if not, why not. 
What sections, titles and number of Commonwealth Police are at each airport. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) What craft and equipment are presently used to maintain Australia's coastal surveillance. 
) What is the frequency of its use. 
Where are these craft and facilities regularly used and by whom. 
Are the craft and equipment available adequate for satisfactory coastal surveillance work in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) How many Union of Soviet Socialist Republics mercantile vessels visited Australian ports in each of the last5 years. 
What tonnage of goods were transported (a) from Australia and (b) to Australia by vessels of the USSR mercantile fleet in each of the last 5 years. 
What percentage did the goods transported under parts (2) (a) and (2)(b) constitute of total marine (a) exports and ( b ) imports in each of the last5 years. 
By what percentage were the freight rates charged in each of the last5 years above or below ruling liner conference rates. 
asked the Minister for Transport,  upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
1 ) For what purposes are the solar panel carriers and solar cell panels to be supplied under contracts LP35 1 1 and LP3528 referred to on page 97 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979. 
) Where will this equipment be installed. 
Will the energy collected by this equipment be in place of a previous source of energy; if so, what was the previous source of energy and what benefits are expected from utilising solar cell panels. 
To what extent have solar cell panels been used by his Department in the past and for what purposes. 
) Is the use of this equipment likely to be extended in the future. 
Is the operation of this equipment subject to any surveillance; if so, will the results of any study be reported (a) to him and (b) to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on May 1 979: 
1 ) What professional consultancy services are to be financed in 1978-79 from his Department's estimates of expenditure under sub-division 658.2, Item 04 (Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1978-79, page 127). 
What sum will be paid for each consultancy service, and for what purpose. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) What is the (a) title, (b) year of manufacture, (c) duration, (d) country of manufacture and (e) general subject matter of each motion picture film used in the training of recruits of the Reserve Fire Fighting Service of his Department. 
What sums were provided in the 1978-79 Budget for the acquisition of these training films. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House, noting that no advice has been provided to the Government that for security reasons it should purchase two Boeing 707, 149 passenger international airliners for use by the Prime Minister on his frequent safaris abroad, and which have twice the capacity of the Air Niugini international airline, is of the opinion that: 
1 ) The Government 's em barkation on a $40m program to re-equip the VIP aircraft fleet is a gross extravagance; 
) It represents a wasteful indulgence of the Prime Minister's desire for luxury air travel; and 
The aircraft should be sold forthwith and the proceeds applied towards the restoration of six monthly pension adjustments. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report entitled 'Canberra Reprieve for Sacked Apprentices' in the  Age  of 16 February 1 979; if so, is there any substance to the Report. 
2 ) How many apprentices employed by Government Departments were dismissed at the end of their training because of staff ceilings imposed by the Government on various Department sections during (a) 1976-77, (b) 1977-78 and (c) 1 July 1978 to date. 
Will further apprentices employed by Government Departments be dismissed at the completion of their training during 1978-79; if so, (a) how many and (b) by which Department are they currently employed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to press reports of talks between the South Korean Government and the Australian National Line concerning the introduction of a joint shipping service by the 2 parties. 
) If so, what substance is there in these reports. 
Is it a fact that the talks were at the instigation of the South Korean Government. 
On what terms might a joint service be operated. 
What would be the frequency of service offered. 
What types of service and types of vessel would be operated. 
Would the joint service involve any partnerships or other arrangements between ANL and private Korean lines. 
In the case of joint liner services, will these be conducted within the relevant liner conferences; if not, could this be taken as establishing a precedent for future ANL ventures. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Walter Ultra Large Fire Tenders commissioned at Australian airports were modified from the standard design, if so, why. 
What was the specific nature of the modifications. 
On whose recommendation was the decision to make the modifications made. 
What was the difference in purchase price of each unit resulting from the modification from standard design. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) Where and for what purposes is the teleprinter equipment referred to in contract No. C 1/77/28 on page 95 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 24  April 1 979 ( G 1 6 ) to be used. 
Is the equipment for replacement purposes or an addition to equipment in use. 
) What is the expected life of the equipment. 
Who were the unsuccessful competitors for the contract. 
) Is the equipment being purchased of Australian manufacture; if not, where was it manufactured. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) Where and for what purposes are the mobile air traffic control vans being purchased under contract C2/78/3 1, referred to on page 96 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1 979 (G 1 6 ) to be used. 
Are the vans to be manufactured in Australia; if not, what is the country of manufacture. 
3 ) How many vans are being purchased. 
Who were the unsuccessful competitors for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1 979: 
1 ) To what use will the Sikorsky S6 1 helicopter, hired from Ansett Airlines of Australia under contract LP353 1 referred to on page 97 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1 979 ( G 1 6 ), be put. 
Where will the helicopter regularly operate. 
3 ) What is the duration of the contract. 
Is the hire of the helicopter in replacement of a craft previously in operation; if so, why was it felt necessary to hire the new craft and what benefits will be derived from the new craft; if not, why was it felt necessary to hire this aircraft. 
5 ) On what basis are contracts awarded to Ansett Airlines of Australia for similar aircraft hire. 
Who were the unsuccessful tenderers for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
What was the (a) establishment and (b) number of officers in service at each Commonwealth airport for duties associated with airport security as at (i) 31 March 1979 and (ii) 30 April 1979. 
What are the various section titles of those officers and how many officers were in service in each section as at 3 1 March 1979 and 30 April 1979. 
-As stated by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech, the purpose of this Bill, the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill 1979, is to authorise the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee borrowings raised by Qantas Airways Ltd to finance the purchase of its 18th and 19th Boeing 747 series aircraft. In accordance with past practice, the guarantee is limited to $US94m or its equivalent in other currencies. This amount represents 80 per cent of the total purchase price of the two aircraft, spare parts and associated equipment. In essence the Bill is a routine piece of legislation and is not being opposed by the Opposition. This debate, however does provide an opportunity for general discussion on the activities and financial performance of Qantas as well as related civil aviation matters. Again, it  is  to this Government's discredit that in introducing the Bill the 
Minister delivered a scanty speech on its subject and provided no information to the Parliament on the financial results of Qantas or the financial contribution the two aircraft might make to Qantas. Likewise, he made no mention of the liquidity position of Qantas or its projected results. This is basic information associated with legislation of this type and ought to be available to the Parliament. Only the Minister is in a position to obtain the type of data required, particularly as the reduced international air fares to some parts of the world became available almost four months ago. The Opposition has noted that Aircraft 1 8 is to be of combi configuration, that is, of combined air cargo and passenger capacity. It is planned that this unit will be used in providing an improved air cargo service between Australia and Frankfurt as well as between Australia and the United States. Aircraft 19 is to be of standard passenger configuration and will be used to cope with peak summer traffic on the United Kingdom, Europe and United States routes. 
Whilst the Minister mentioned that Qantas is to commence a conversion program of its existing all-Boeing 747 fleet to increase the passenger capacity of each aircraft to 455 seats, he gave no detail of the effect the conversion will have on the operating economics of each aircraft. Such detail would have assisted in assessing the impact the increased capacity will have on the financial performance of Qantas and whether it offered the prospect of either further reducing air fares or offsetting future cost increases. Let me make this point. The public discussion of the level of air fares, airline performance and operating results has been hampered by the continuing refusal of this Government to provide adequate information on the operation of our airlines. The result has been that the public perceives the airfare schedules, both domestic and international, as being anomalous and unnecessarily high. The Department of Transport has the information in its possession; it has the staff to prepare it for the Minister. Obviously the Government prefers to see public discussion on airline policy based on a lack of essential data, misinformation and slogans even on propaganda distributed by foreign airlines. 
The Minister is not present, nor is the Acting Minister present; so if the Minister for Administrative Services who is at the table cares to respond I would welcome it. It would be a change. I ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay),  that, in the national interest, in his reply and in future debates on airline measures he provide that adequate airline information to the Parliament. 
I now turn to the proposed amalgamation of Trans-Australia Airlines arid Qantas Airways Ltd to which I referred recently. On 19 February 1979, the Minister for Transport in answer to Question on Notice 2931, which I asked on 21 November 1978, responded by dealing with a reference to paragraph 15.1.7 of Part 1 of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review. It is a reference to an examination of the proposition that Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd should be merged. In reply, the Minister stated: 
1 ) (2) and (3) The possible merger of TAA and Qantas was considered by the Administrative Review Committee under the chairmanship of  Sir Henry  Bland, and the review of Transport Business Undertakings under the chairmanship of  Sir James  McNeill. 
The Minister then refers to the terms of reference of both committees. But the substantial part of the answer goes on to say: 
Details of when and where the committees deliberated are not readily available. Both reports including their findings, are confidential to the Government and will not be released. 
Again that shows lack of information. Part (4) of the answer is the critical part. It states: 
The Government has no intention of merging TAA and Qantas. 
I learned a few weeks ago of the proposal for the amalgamation of Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas that could feasibly operate from December 1980. This matter has been raised in a public forum on a number of occasions. Again it is up to the Minister for Administrative Services who is at the table to provide some clarification of the issue. I am not in a position to say that such a move would be in the best interests of air travellers and Australia or not. I, and the Opposition, have not had access to the relevant facts at this stage to form a considered view. I am aware that recently the New Zealand Government merged its international airline, Air New Zealand, with its domestic carrier, the National Airline Corporation or NAC. Similarly, some years ago the United Kingdom amalgamated its publicly owned airlines British Overseas Airways Corporation and British Empire Airlines to form the present airline BA or British Airways. I understand also the management and operational structures of TAA and Qantas are similar. However, because this Government has refused to release the reports of the 1976 Administrative Review Committee and 1976 McNeill Committee we do not know their recommendations and we do not know the basis for the Government's decision notified to me on 19 February 1979 not to merge TAA and Qantas. 
Those reports together with the merger proposal for December 1980 should be made available to the Parliament without further delay. It must be noted also that any move to amalgamate TAA with Qantas would have major implications for domestic airline policy. It may be that such an amalgamation could result in significant cost savings in Australian airline operations that could be passed onto air travellers in the form of lower air fares. That question cannot be resolved in the absence of the relevant information. What this Government fails to realise is that air travel is the basic form of long distance public passenger transport for Australians both internally and externally. As such it is imperative that every opportunity should be explored responsibly to reduce costs. The advantages of air travel should be available to as wide a range of Australians as possible and this is an objective to which the Australian Labor Party is steadfastly committed. The benefits of air travel must be available to the Australian community as a whole and not restricted to the so-called elite of our society as has been the practice of successive conservative governments during the past 30 years. Likewise, every opportunity should be explored to encourage overseas visitors to come to Australia thus providing a beneficial stimulus to our beleaguered tourist industry. 
The recent introduction of reduced international air fares is a step in the right direction and at this early stage has brought about a substantial increase in visitors to Australia. We still need to be vigilant however to ensure that adequate seat capacity is made available to cope with the increased demand for travel to and from Australia. Preliminary figures for the first two months of operation show that the number of passengers to Australia from West Germany has increased by 70 per cent over last year, from the United States of America by 62 per cent, and from the United Kingdom by 40 per cent. Overall, short-term arrivals in Australia are up by 27 per cent while short term departures have increased by approximately 38 per cent, again when compared with the same period in 1978. 1 understand also the estimate for total short-term arrivals in Australia during 1979 is about 730,000 persons and that total short-term departures are anticipated to reach around 1.3 million to 1.4 million persons. 
The 7 per cent increase in international air fares and air cargo rates approved by the Minister for Transport to operate from today will undoubtedly have some impact on the level of passenger and cargo traffic. It is fair to say that, as the 7 per cent increases affect all International Air Travel Association airline members, the impact of the increases should be relative to all other international destinations. A few weeks ago the shadow Minister for Immigration, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and I criticised the long delay in concluding lower air fares arrangements to Greece and Italy. Irrespective of the Minister for Transport's denials at the time, it is fact that the unavailability of lower air fares to Greece and Italy was effectively discriminating against the two largest ethnic groups in Australia, that is, persons of Greek or Italian descent. 
On 22 May the Minister for Transport announced the reduced fares that will be available to Greece from today. It must be stressed that persons who have come from Italy and Greece to settle in Australia have especially strong ties with those countries because of their unique extended family links and traditions. The continuing failure of the Government to conclude lower air fare arrangements with Italy has continued the discrimination against people of Italian descent. There are more than 700,000 Australians of Italian descent and, like other Australians, they want and are entitled to the benefit of lower cost air travel to their homeland. I want the Government to accelerate its negotiations with the Italian Government so that the lower cost air fares to Italy can be introduced as soon as possible. 
It has been pointed out to me that persons of Italian descent residing in Darwin appear likely to miss out on the advantages that may become available to those in the capital cities. I ask the Government, through the Minister at the table, to give particular attention to those people of Italian descent now resident in Darwin who wish to visit Italy when the arrangements can be concluded. We should note also that reduced air fare agreements have been signed with the United Kingdom, the United States, West Germany, Canada, Greece, Yugoslavia, the Netherlands and New Zealand. It is imperative, therefore, that increased efforts be made by this Government to conclude an agreement with Italy. Similarly, increased effort from this Government is needed to develop lower air fare arrangements with the nations of the Middle East region. We have heard a lot about what lower air fares might do for Australia. But I think 
Parliament's attention should be drawn to some of the reports that have been coming back from West Germany, in particular. I refer to an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 29 May by Philip Derriman in London called 'Tourism boost loses its bounce'. I refer to a paragraph in which the spokesman for the German Travel Agents ' Association said: 
. the German travel industry dislike the fares-- 
That is, the new reduced fares-  pardy because of their complex seasonal variations, but mainly because of the problems inherent in them for German travel companies trying to organise Australian package holidays. 
The article goes on to quote one leading tour operator,  Mr Helmut  Voss, who said that the new fares were a 'slap in the face for the German travel industry'. Further, a leading Frankfurt travel consultant specialising in Australian tours,  Mr Manfred  Dreke, said he believed German tourist traffic to Australia would rise by about 20 per cent this year although this would be on a low base figure of only 20,000 persons or so. 

 Mr Dreke is reported as being confident the total could rise fairly quickly to 50,000 or 60,000 if Australia could get the German travel industry on side but that he thought forecasts reported in Australia of up to 100,000 a year were 'far too high- absolute rubbish'. I mention that because the view has been expressed to the Opposition and to the Government that the major reason that there is not more travel into Australia is that the foreign airlines do not spend sufficient funds on the generation or promotion of traffic in their home countries. The points made in that article by Philip Derriman are, firstly, the limitations that the German travel industry see upon travel to Australia; secondly, the fact that the travel industry itself does not like the form of fares that has been arranged. I will come back to that matter a little later on when I refer to the operating results of Lufthansa. 
I want to turn now to the Government's second international airline comprising the two Boeing 707 149-passenger airlines, purchased from Qantas by the Government and currently being fitted out as flying hotels for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Honourable members are aware that the major function of the second international airline is to transport in luxury and absolute comfort the Prime Minister and Ministers on their regular and frequent international safaris. Earlier this year - 
I quoted from the Press release of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  If you want to refute what he says, that is on your head. I will repeat it for you: Honourable members are aware that the major function of the second international airline is to transport in luxury and absolute comfort the Prime Minister and Ministers on their frequent and regular international safaris. Earlier this year, in what I believe to be an abuse of his powers, the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  authorised the payment from his advance for contingency purposes of $ 10.2m to Qantas. The payment was for the purchase of Qantas 's remaining two Boeing 707s, initial spares and related equipment. The excuse for this abuse of the Minister's advance was that Qantas needed the money urgently. I will return to that later, but the fact is that the use of the Minister's advance to pay Qantas for the flying hotels instead of putting through a special appropriation Bill was to prevent the Parliament voting on the expenditure as a separate item. There is no doubt in my mind that had he done so the special appropriations Bill would have been thrown out by the Senate. 
Qantas revenue for the year ended 3 1 March 1978- the latest figures publicly availabletotalled $648,645,000. This Bill before the Parliament is to guarantee a borrowing by Qantas of $US94m. Qantas paid a dividend to the Government of $6.44m for 1977-78. Qantas revenue for this year is up considerably on last year's revenue. I understand that a substantial operating profit was made by Qantas in the year ended 31 March 1979, the months in which the so-called urgent payment had to be made from the Advance to the Minister for Finance. The tremendous amounts of money involved exposed the transparency of the claim by the Minister for Finance that Qantas had to be paid urgentlymore so when we recognise also that Qantas had earlier planned to dispose of the Boeing 707s in May and June 1979, not in February as occurred. 
Options on the 707s had been granted earlier to companies overseas, subject to government approval. However, once the Prime Minister decided that he wanted them for his use on his frequent international safaris, the options were overruled and payment rushed through to avoid a parliamentary vote on that item of expenditure as a single item of expenditure. Not only was the purchase of the aircraft a waste and an extravagance, but also I believe the manner in which Qantas was paid was an abuse of ministerial power. 
Like many other large organisations, Qantas comes in for its share of criticism, some informed, some less than informed. Despite what some of its critics might say, I have found amongst Qantas travellers generally a great deal of affection and pride in its operation as Australia's international flag carrier.  Sir Freddie  Laker has described Qantas as an 'international airline par excellence'. That is not to say that Qantas is perfect. In fact, from time to time people have complained to me- I have no reason to disbelieve them- that sometimes Qantas, because it is the Australian international flag carrier, appears to take people for granted. I do not think that is good enough. Where those instances occur, certainly it should be brought to the attention of the Minister for Transport and certainly to the attention of Qantas. In the Opposition's view Qantas, as a publicly owned transport enterprise, should operate efficiently and competitively. 
The airline has shown that with tighter and more efficient management it can operate profitably and competitively. Last financial year it showed a pre-tax profit of almost $ 16m and paid a dividend of $6.44m. This result showed a complete reversal of the previous losing trend in the previous year, 1975-76, when Qantas lost $26m. In 1977-78 Qantas carried 1.6 million passengers, a decline of one per cent on 1976-77 and the revenue load factor fell from 62 per cent to 59.8 per cent. A calculation of those figures shows a profit of approximately $10 per passenger carried. Qantas has shown that it is prepared to take the initiative on such issues as lower fares. In saying that I rely on what was said by the Minister for Transport. It has advocated cheaper fares between Australian capital cities for international passengers and domestic passengers. The latter suggestion the Government has obviously rejected. In this respect it is giving a lead to the domestic airlines, because apart from tinkering with the basic fare structure the major domestic airlines, at the Government's instigation, have shown a marked reluctance to introduce lower air fares for the benefit of all Australians on a year round basis. 
On the subject of Qantas I refer to the Air Navigation Regulation 106A about which the Minister for Transport had so much to say last year, particularly in his well publicised raid upon the premises of ACTU-Jetset. No subject could have received more extensive publicity than that raid. It was the subject of Dorothy Dix questions in the House, the subject of statements in the House and the subject of Press releases by the Minister. It received a great deal of other national media attention. Yet, some months ago when I asked the Minister a question on notice about what other travel organisations had been visited by his raiders, Commonwealth Police and Department of Transport officers exercising their responsibilities under Air Navigation Regulation 106A, the answer came back that seven organisations had been visited in the period since April 1976 when the new regulations came into force. Strangely, the Minister for Transport, after the great public campaign against ACTU-Jetset, refused to name the seven travel organisations upon grounds which I can only regard as spurious, namely, that the disclosure of the names of the seven travel organisations may in some way adversely affect the operations of the travel organisations concerned. I think it is a very reasonable conclusion to draw that a distinct partiality has been exercised by the Minister for Transport in this issue. I believe he has a clear responsibility to the people of Australia to provide the names of the other seven travel organisations that were raided by Commonwealth Police, sometimes in association with the Department of Transport officers. I turn now to freight. We know that aircraft 1 8 will offer an improved cargo service between Australia and Germany. Combi aircraft were added to the Qantas fleet in October 1977, improving cargo capacity and allowing many more commodities to be shipped by air. The combi aircraft can carry 28 tonnes of cargo compared with 12 tonnes on the Boeing 747B passenger aircraft and 5 tonnes on the former Boeing 707 aircraft. In 1977-78 Qantas carried 12,600 tonnes of Australian exports and in the first eight months of this year 11,223 tonnes- a 32.1 per cent increase over the previous year. Undoubtedly air cargo revenue will form an increasing proportion of total airline revenue. There has been some criticism of Qantas air cargo rates and lack of air cargo capacity, especially for low value, highly priced, sensitive cargoes such as chilled meat and eggs. Two basic problems to be faced are the restrictions of existing policies and the imbalance of export-import traffic. There appears to be greater opportunity for the consolidation of cargoes. 
The recent International Civil Aviation Policy Review found that in non-scheduled operations the existing rules relating to split charters have proved to be too restrictive in terms of commodities, size limitations and the number of consignments. It respect of scheduled operations the Review considered the existing freight rate structure to be constrained in scope, that the lack of unit load rates out of Australia was hindering development and that rate innovation was needed. The proposals of the International Civil Aviation Policy Review relating to freight require careful and critical examination by the Parliament and the industry to ensure that the decisions made will maximise Australia's access to international trade. 
But what is the position in respect of the current years operations of Qantas and what prospect does the future hold? Regrettably the Minister for Transport told us nothing about these matters in his second reading speech. Instead we have to turn to the  Australian Financial Review  and a report by leading aviation writer Ali Cromie of an interview with the General Manager of Qantas,  Mr Keith  Hamilton. In that interview  Mr Hamilton  pointed to some of the changes that face international aviation operators out of Australia. He mentioned the possibility of Qantas charter nights from February 1980, the problems associated with meeting peak capacity demands to Europe, and the fact that Qantas was in the process of arranging two ' additional nights to Europe this month. He expressed concern at the continuing predominance of traffic out of Australia and the capacity imbalance that this caused. Allied to that difficulty was the fact that in some periods there were heavy bookings out of Australia with low return load factors. 

 Mr Hamilton indicated also the possibility of alterations becoming necessary to the existing seasonal fare structures. It is interesting to compare  Mr Hamilton's  views with the recent comments made by the  Chairman  of Lufthansa,  Dr Culmann.  The West German Government holds more than 74 per cent of the capital of Lufthansa, thus the airline is effectively Germany's national international flag carrier. I wish to quote from an article which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  of 22 May 1977 headed: 'Low fares, fuel costs nag Lufthansa hopes'. I again refer to some of the comments within Australia about the level of international air fares. I said that the Australian Labor Party is committed to a regime of lower air fares which is as responsible as possible. It is interesting to look at what  Dr Culmann  has said. In his report he refers to the likely results for Lufthansa. The report reads: 
Despite price rises due to take effect this month, fares were still artificially low,  Dr Culmann  said. 
This was aggravated by price cutting on some US and Australian routes. 
Earlier in the report, in reference to fuel supplies for aircraft, he says: 
In the first four months of this year, air fuel prices had risen by more than 40 per cent and the severe shortage of fuel had also hit Lufthansa. 
There was no point in winning additional landing rights in US cities ... if there was not sufficient fuel available for regular flights. 
That gives some indication of the problems faced by an international carrier operating in Australia. It also gives a little more balance to the global scene of international airline operations, as opposed to that which is put forward by particular sectors of industry within Australia. I am not saying that either argument is right or wrong, but we sorely need, as I said earlier, the Government to produce information in relation to airline operations so that we can have a discussion in Australia that is based on fact, that is based on rationality, that is based on possibilities and not on speculation and exaggerations. I refer again to the German travel scene. I ask the Acting Minister for Transport or the Minister who replies to the debate later to direct his attention to an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 24 May 1979 written by Philip Derriman, which is headed: 'Qantas wins German ire, ban threat'. It goes on to report that Qantas had stumbled into a dispute with the German travel industry because it was marketing holiday packages to Australia. I believe that on an international basis there are traditional and established arrangements in the marketing of holiday travel out of West Germany on an international basis. It is a little difficult to understand that Qantas would tumble into such a situation about which the newspaper report stated: 
Qantas 's mistake- apparently made unwittingly- was to begin offering Germans its own Australian holidays a few weeks ago. This struck a raw nerve with the German travel industry, which insists that airlines should leave the holiday business to tour companies. 
The Qantas office in Frankfurt has now been served notice by the German Travel Agents Association to stop advertising the Qantas holidays and to withdraw its brochures by June 1 . 
I think that article needs an explanation by the Minister, firstly in connection with Qantas 's tumbling into that kind of situation, but probably more importantly as to what are the real prospects for marketing Australia within Germany as a desirable holiday destination, particularly in the light of the present state of the Australian tourist industry, and particularly in the light of expectations that have been put forward by certain sectors of the travel industry in Australia. 
As I pointed out when I commenced my speech, the Bill is a routine measure. It is not opposed by the Opposition and I hope that in his response the Acting Minister for Transport will give some explanation on the points that I have raised. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended- 

 Government members interjecting- 

I thought that you were concerned about the Nomad. That is why you have rejected it - 
-This morning in this House we have seen an exercise in obstruction by the Government and an exercise in abuse of parliamentary procedures which is wholly unjustified - 
Are you going to take the time now? You are still disrupting. 
-The response from the Government to the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation on the prevention and control of oil pollution in the marine environment has taken some nine months. Most of the recommendations have received the attention of the Government to the extent that they have been acted upon, they are being implemented or they are being considered. I assume from the remarks of the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  that the response is made not only on behalf of the Department of Transport but also on behalf of the Department of Defence, the Department of Science and the Environment and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The dangers that tankers pose for the Australian coastline are more serious, I believe, than one would think from a reading of the Minister's statement. In general, the statement tends to gloss over the serious nature of some of the things that could occur in the event of a tanker accident off the coast of Australia. 
I refer briefly to the recommendation that the Commonwealth Government increase the funds available for hydrography work in Australian coastal waters to hasten the upgrading of navigation charts. We are told that the Government is considering that recommendation. Because of the references to the faulty navigation charts which the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation found, I impress upon the Government that adequate funds should be made available for that purpose. Another recommendation under consideration relates to cargo tagging. Whilst cargo tagging is a simplistic term, it is best described in a reference in the report of the Committee. Paragarph 94 of the report refers to the various methods of individually fingerprinting oil cargoes that have been considered. It states: 
Sweden has introduced a trial system of coded plastic pellets which are put into unladen or ballasted tankers. Tank washings from these vessels can then be easily traced. 
Oil slicks off the Australian  coast  are a fairly frequent occurrence, and the authorities are unable to identify the sources of those slicks. It is also a regular practice for vessels visiting Australia to take the opportunity in the course of the voyage to wash out their tanks so that they do not have to pause. They wash the tanks while the vessel is travelling instead of doing it in an authorised area. It is essential, if we are to protect our own marine environment, that there be some sort of efficient means of identifying the source of the pollution. 
The early part of the Minister's statement referred to the recommendation that the Department of Transport investigate and report to the Minister on possible ways of reporting suspect shipping. I relate that recommendation to the policy of the Government in respect of flag of convenience vessels. In recent years, during the world wide economic trough, particularly in relation to international shipping rates, this country has been exploiting the benefits of the cheapest international freight rates for many years. However, one always gets what one pays for and, along with those cheap freight rates, we have had a large incidence of flag of convenience vessels travelling the Australian coast. 1 refer the House to the statement in the report relating to evidence by a representative of the Queensland Coast and Torres Strait Pilot Service. I mentioned this to my colleague, the shadow Minister for the environment, in respect of the Great Barrier Reef. On page 26 of the report it is stated:   . . Approximately 40 per cent of the ships he pilots have substandard equipment. He went on to say, 'a very large percentage of ships afloat today under flags of convenience have absolutely appalling standards both in trained navigating personnel and in equipment. 
It is not generally recognised in the Australian community that on these vessels the crews are paid virtually slave labour rates. Depending upon the country of registry, only one qualified person may be on board that vessel. One could best and most kindly describe the rest of the crew as sea-going labourers. It has been brought to my notice by members of the maritime industry that there are occasions when pilots have gone on board vessels traversing the Great Barrier Reef area at night to find nobody on the bridge. In effect, nobody was qualified. The one qualified officer on board was asleep below. That is the kind of risk that is entailed. Naturally, one would have thought that the Government would have been alert to it. 
On 4 April this year I asked the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  about the large percentage of ships flying under flags of convenience and frequenting the Torres Strait area and the quality of their personnel. Surprisingly, and I think irresponsibly, the Minister for Transport said that as the statement in the report to which I have referred did not include particulars of the identity or nationality of the ships in question, no meaningful answer could be given to the question. We are asked to believe that the Department of Transport does not know who are the flag of convenience operators through the Torres Strait and around the Australian coastline. Obviously the Department could not care less, from the tone of the answer I received. The Minister also said that the items of equipment referred to were the gyro compasses, radar and sounding machines. Surely, they are the most essential pieces of equipment in the navigation of a vessel and the negotiation of difficult sea passages in rock strewn areas? 
On 2 1 February this year I asked the Minister about the nature and number of deficiencies discovered during tanker inspections. The Minister referred to tanker inspections that had been established as a supervisory safety process and gave the impression that everything in the garden was lovely in relation to those inspections in Australia. On 15 January the Minister issued a Press statement in which he said that as a result of tanker inspections carried out over the period from August 1977 to December 1978 a number of deficiencies had been found. He did not establish the nature of the deficiencies. On 21 February, in a question on notice, I asked the Minister what was the number of deficiencies. The number of deficiencies referred to by the Minister for Transport so blandly, and obviously with an intent to delude the Australian public, was 480. There were 480 deficiencies revealed during inspections of vessels visiting the Australian coastline over a period of 16 months. I refer to some of those deficiencies. Ten overseas vessels had leakages from joints, hoses and glands pumps. Six vessels had electrical equipment in a hazardous zone which was not intrinsically safe. In six Australian vessels and six overseas vessels fire appliances were not ready for immediate use. In 25 vessels doors to accommodation and other doors and windows overlooking a hazardous zone were open. In 12 cases warning notices were defective or missing or safe smoking areas were not designated. In 31 cases tanker safety publications were not on board. Sixteen overseas vessels had faulty navigation equipment and insufficient or uncorrected charts and publications. Those are only a few of the deficiencies referred to in the Minister's answer. I will terminate my remarks to give my colleague a chance to respond. Whilst the statement from the Minister is welcome and goes a substantial way towards improving the position in Australia, a lot remains to be done. I hope that the Government acts with a sense of responsibility on this issue. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) To which airfields near Nareen, Victoria, can any aircraft of No. 34 Squadron operate on flights from Canberra. 
Which aircraft of the Squadron are suitable for that purpose. 
What is the cost of operating these aircraft on the journey from Canberra to the airfields designated. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
1 ) To whom were each of the applications by Ansett Airlines and TAA for air fare increases since December 1 975 initially directed. 
On what date (a) was each application for each air fare increase from each airline received and (b) did he announce his decision in respect of each application. 
Did he receive recommendations from his Department in respect of each fare increase application: If so, (a) were the recommendations made following an examination by his Department of the justification for each of the fare increases sought, (b) on what dates were each of the recommendations made and (c) what information and specific statements or documents were requested from each of the airlines in association with each application. 
What is the classification of each officer who participated in the examination of each fare increase application. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 15 March 1979 entitled  Transport Department defies Cabinet Decision. 
Is it a fact that his Department is refusing to provide the Department of Finance with information to allow that Department to assess his Department's request for additional funds for administrative purposes; if so, why. 
Is it also a fact that his Department has opposed a Cabinet Directive that funds to all departments for administrative purposes be cut by 3 per cent. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) What additional staff for (a) transit of passengers and baggage and (b) airport terminal security have been appointed at Australia's international airports since I February 1979. 
What are the (a) passenger and baggage handling staff establishment levels and (b) actual staff numbers at each of Australia 's international airports. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) What is the cabin staff complement and what are the duties of each cabin staff position in each of the major aircraft types operated by domestic airline regular public transport licence holders in Australia. 
Is he able to give comparable information on simitar types operated in similar tasks on domestic airline services in (a) the United Kingdom, (b) Canada, (c) the United States of America and (d) European Economic Community nations. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) On what occasions, and for what specific purposes have loan guarantees been provided to (a) Ansett Transport Industries or its associates or subsidiaries and (b) TAA since 1958 under the provisions of the various Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Acts. 
What was the amount of the guarantee provided in each case. 
Who was the lender or lenders in each case and what were the terms of borrowing including interest rates charged. 
asked the Minister for Transport the following question, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
1 ) In view of the decision by Ansett Airlines to end on 8 May 1979 its night cargo freight service from Brisbane to Mackay, Townsville and Cairns, will the Government hold an inquiry into air services to isolated areas of Australia. 
What arrangements are being made to provide an alternative service for people in the areas of northern Queensland affected after 8 May. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1 979: 
For what reason was contract PTB31, for the hire of B747 simulator time from Qantas Airways Ltd referred to on page 97 of the  Commonwelth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979 (G16) awarded. 
) Who will make use of the simulator time and for what purpose. 
What is the duration of the contract. 
Have similar contracts been let in the past; if not, for what reason is it necessary to commence the calling of tenders now. 
On what basis are contracts for simulator hire awarded. 
Who were the unsuccessful tenderers for contract PTB31. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) What quantities of folders, binders and P.V.C. binders are involved in contracts S 123 1, S 1234, S 1236 and S 1240 referred to on page 97 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of  24 April 1979. 
Are the goods mentioned in these contracts of Australian manufacture; if not, where were they manufactured. 
For what period are the various quantities being purchased expected to suffice. 
What are the various types of binders being purchased and by what sections of his Department are they to be used. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
How many telegrams advising approval of Community Youth Support Scheme applications have been dispatched by his Department since the inception of the scheme. 
To whom are these telegrams sent and how many have been sent to each category of recipient since the inception of the scheme. 
What has been the expenditure of his Department on telegrams related to CYSS programs since their inception. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1979. 
1 ) For what reason was contract PTB23, for the hire of DC9 simulator time from TAA referred to on page 97 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 24  April 1979 (G 16), awarded. 
What is the duration of the contract. 
) Who will make use of the simulator time and for what purpose. 
On what basis are contracts for such simulator hire awarded. 
Have similar contracts been let in the past; if not, for what reason is it necessary to commence the calling of tenders now. 
) Who were the unsuccessful tenderers for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1 979. 
1 ) For what purposes will the DHC 6 aircraft being hired under Contract OTB22 referred to on page 97 of  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 14  April 1 979 (G 16) be used. 
What is the duration of the contract. 
3 ) Who is to operate the aircraft. 
Were the tasks to be performed by the DHC 6 aircraft previously carried out by a similar aircraft type; if not, why not. 
5 ) What are the terms of payment of the contract. 
Who were the unsuccessful competitors for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on  8  May  1979: 
1 ) For what reason was contract 3 1 /2/399, for the hire of B727 simulator time from Ansett Airlines of Australia, referred to on page 98 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979 (G16), awarded. 
Who will make use of the simulator time and for what purpose. 
3 ) What is the duration of the contract. 
Have similar contracts been let in the past; if not, for what reason is it necessary to commence the calling of tenders now. 
5 ) On what basis was this contract let to Ansett Airlines of Australia. 
Who were the unsuccessful tenderers for contract 31/2/399. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
What action has the Minister taken to implement the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills that the then Minister for Science review priorities to determine the need for increased allocation of resources to marine science research. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) Is the exciter controller being purchased under contract No. 24-5820/79/33 referred to on page 47 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of  8 May 1979 (G 18) to be used by personnel within his Department; if so, which categories of officers will have access to the exciter controller and under what circumstances is it to be used. 
What equipment previously provided the service being made available by the unit being purchased. 
3 ) What is the country of manufacture. 
Who were the unsuccessful tenderers. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
1 ) How many trips has the Governor-General made in RAAF No. 34 Squadron aircraft since December 1977. 
What was the purpose of each trip. 
What was the cost of each trip. 
What was the name, classification and salary of each person who accompanied the Governor-General. 
5 ) What type of aircraft was used on each trip. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
What was the total amount of overtime paid to Commonwealth Police employed on security duties at Parliament House in (a) 1974-75, (b) 1975-76), (c) 1976-77, (d) 1977-78 and (e)1 July 1978 to date. 
Against which divisional item are these payments charged in his Department's accounts. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
Further to his answer to question No. 3899  (Hansard,  29 May 1979, page 2627) is he now able to say what was (a ) the establishment level of Commonwealth Police at each Australian airport and ( b) the number of Commonwealth Police employed at each Australian  airport  as at (a) 31 March 1978; (b) 3 1 March 1979 and (c) 30 April 1979. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
1 ) In respect of the New Zealand Free Trade Agreement Customs Tariff (New Zealand Rate Schedule) R16 (279/16), page 1546, Item 73.40.900, operativeIII 78ofl7 August 1978, part (h), roofing tiles of galvanised steel, coated with a bonding preparation based on bitumen, and further coated with a layer of mineral substances, why was this definition different from that operative from 1 July 1 974. 
) When was the change made and why. 
Which brands of these tiles are currently marketed in Australia. 
What quantity of each brand was imported during the years (a) 1974-75, (b) 1975-76, (c) 1976-77, (d) 1977-78, and the period (e) 1 July 1978 to date. 
What proportion of the total Australian housing tile market did the imports of these tiles represent during the years (a) 1974-75, (b) 1975-76, (c) 1976-77, (d) 1977-78 and the period (e) 1 July 1978 to date. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
Have officers of his Department raided the warehouses of some importers of galvanised steel house tiles; if so, what were the circumstances that led to this action and where did it occur. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) On how many occasions has his Department chartered civilian aircraft in relation to activities associated with the location of RAAF personnel at Butterworth Air Base, Malaysia, during the years (a) 1976-77,(b) 1977-78 and the period (c) 1 July 1978 to date. 
What was the (a) cost of the air charter in each case, (b) number of (i) males and (ii) females transported, (c) type of aircraft chartered and (d) the organisation from which the aircraft was chartered. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on5 June 1979: 
1 ) What is the expected term of location of RAAF personnel at Butterworth Air Base, Malaysia. 
Has a date been set for their withdrawal. 
What is the formal agreement with the Malaysian Government that provides for the location of RAAF aircraft and personnel at Butterworth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 5 June 1 979: 
Further to question No. 3461  (Hansard,  31 May 1979, page 2803) is the Minister now able to say (a) when the Department of Science and the Environment received the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation on Oil Spills and (b) when a statement will be made to the House on the report. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) What are the identification numbers of the 2 Boeing 707-338 aircraft purchased for use by the Prime Minister in overseas travel. 
Which of the 2 aircraft was used in flights to Butterworth Air Base and Hong Kong during the first 6 months of 1979. 
3 ) Which aircraft is currently being fitted out by Qantas. 
Are both aircraft to be modified to identical specifications internally and externally; if not, what are the specifications of each set of modifications. 
What facilities are being provided in each aircraft for the convenience of and utilisation by media personnel or for media purposes in respect of (a) travel comfort and (b) communications. 
What are the specific costs of each of the facilities being provided for the media and who is meeting the costs involved. 
7 ) Are the duties of the 2 aircraft to be interchangeable; if so, how is this to be achieved and what are the interchange costs involved. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
1 ) Which brands of coated galvanised steel house tiles are marketed in Australia. 
Who are the manufacturers and national marketers in Australia of each brand of tile. 
What is the country of manufacture of each brand of tile. 
Is he able to say whether any brands of the tiles marketed in Australia have been banned by Government housing agencies abroad; if so, which and why. 
asked the Minister for Immi  gration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) What status does  Ms Lillian  Gasinskaya, formerly a citizen of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, who jumped ship at Sydney on or about 1 4 January 1 979, hold in Australia. 
For what reasons was she granted the status she presently holds. 
Did the Sydney  Daily Mirror  or any other person associated with the company News Ltd act in any capacity, official or otherwise, for  Ms Gasinskaya  or in any other way which could be reasonably interpreted as having assisted her case with his Department; if so, who were the persons involved and what was the nature of the assistance given in representation of her case to his Department. 
Did any other person(s) or organisations assist her with representing her case to his Department; if so, who were these persons or what were the organisations concerned. 
Did an employee of News Ltd or any other person connected with  Ms Gasinskaya  travel in a Commonwealth car on or about 16 January 1979; if so, what was the purpose of the travel, who were the persons concerned and who authorised the travel. 
-The Navigation Amendment Bill 1 979 is a major piece of legislation to come before the Parliament. It will be greeted with some pleasure by, I believe, all honourable members who follow the fortunes of Australia's maritime industry and by the industry itself. The introduction of the Bill by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on 22 May this year constitutes the third attempt to bring Australian shipping legislation into the twentieth century. The progress of the Navigation Amendment Bill 1975 introduced by the then Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  was abruptly terminated by the events of Remembrance Day 1975. Similar legislation presented by the present Minister for Transport lapsed when the Parliament was prorogued at the beginning of 1977 in order to enable  Her  Majesty the Queen to open a new session of Parliament. 
There is great similarity between each successive Bill, hence the Opposition does not intend to oppose this long overdue legislation. I will draw attention, however, to certain aspects of the Bill which afford us some concern but I remind the House that this legislation is an interim measure only. The Summers report into Australian maritime legislation which was commissioned by the honourable member for Newcastle when he was Minister for Transport and which was presented to the present Minister for Transport took the attitude that nothing short of a complete review of the Navigation Act was necessary. The present Navigation Act dating back to 1 912 is largely an adaptation of a series of British Acts which culminated in the British Merchant Shipping Act of 1894. The Summers report commented that in many respects the Navigation Act still reflects British attitudes at the end of the nineteenth century. 
It is quite extraordinary that almost two centuries after settlement Australia still does not have its own registry of ships. Ships are registered in Australia by Australian customs officers who, in effect, act as agents of the Government of Great Britain. All ships registered in Australia are included in the British Registry. There are no provisions in the present Australian Navigation Act for the registration of ships in Australia's name. Maritime laws enacted by State parliaments are subject to similar archaic provisions resulting in some extraordinary legal difficulties in their operation. As a result of an appeal from the Western Australian Supreme Court, the Privy Council ruled that an Australian owned and manned crayfishing boat was, in fact, a British ship and subject to a British Act enacted in 1536 for the punishment of pirates and robbers of the sea. Whilst this case is extreme it illustrates the legal reliance of Australian maritime law on ancient British Acts of Parliament. 
The Summers Commission of Inquiry into the Maritime Industry stressed that the Navigation Act is a corner post in the whole structure of maritime operations, concluding that the natural course of the industry's development would be impeded if the existing legislation were not revised. Neither the Australian Labor Party when in government nor the present Government has denied the truth of  Mr Summers'  observation but has taken the attitude that the process of transition in this difficult and complex area would be eased if the present Act were modified for the time being. The Navigation Amendment Bill before us differs in some of its details from the Bill introduced in 1975. Provisions relating to visiting British ships which were to have been deleted from the Act will remain in operation pending discussion with the Queensland Government. In the interim an Order-in-Council exempts visiting British ships from Part II of the Act. Whilst this state of affairs lacks the permanence of an amendment to the principal Act, it temporarily accomplishes the same end. Similarly, reference in the amending Bill to off-shore industry vessels, fixed structures and mobile units has been deleted following concern voiced by the States. Hopefully, discussions with the States in the Marine and Ports Council of Australia will lead to the resolution of this problem allowing action in a later Bill. 
Of greatest concern to the Opposition is the dropping of an amendment to section 100 of the principal Act. Section 100 lists 1 1 offences including desertion, wilful disobedience and insubordination and provides penalties for each transgression. Obviously strict discipline must be maintained while at sea where the action of one seaman may endanger the life and property of others. Certain of the provisions are sufficiently loose in wording, if literally interpreted, to prohibit a stop-work meeting on shore while the vessel is in port. Such legislation clearly contravenes International Labour Organisation conventions on the freedom of labour to organise and therefore should be revised. It is worth noting that another clause of the Bill omits the provision of the Navigation Act which the committee of experts of the ILO criticised as being contrary to ILO Convention 105 on forced labour to which Australia is a party. Given this action by the Government, the House may hope that an amendment of section 100 will follow in further legislation. 
The Bill before the House deals with several matters not included in the 1975 amendment, indicating the continued state of flux surrounding revision of Australian maritime legislation. The Bill enables Australia to become a party to three international conventions in addition to those dealt with by the 1975 legislation. I will discuss these in more detail later. This Bill contains more comprehensive provisions relating to manning of vessels. The Navigation Act at present specifies fixed levels of manning which, again if interpreted literally, could be quite absurd. A large bulk carrier could be compelled to employ up to 100 able seamen or ordinary seamen. In practice such a vessel sails with no more than a dozen persons of this classification. 
In place of the fixed manning scales specified in the 1912 Navigation Act, the Minister will henceforth be empowered to determine appropriate levels. As in all cases where ministerial discretion replaces fixed statutes, vigilance by the Parliament, the industry and the trade unions will be necessary to safeguard against the potential existing for abuse of ministerial power. In this case I am sure such scrutiny will take place. All orders made by the Minister will, of course, be gazetted, allowing public access to their provisions. I note also from the Minister's second reading speech that this change in provisions relating to manning scales is to occur in two stages and that there has been consultation with the industry and with the trade union movement in respect of the transition. 
This Bill also provides that a uniform shipping laws code, concerning such aspects as construction standards, fittings, materials, stability, load lines, and equipping of vessels under 500 tonnes will be established. This measure aims at uniformity of standards throughout Australia. I think something again should be said on a bipartisan basis because it indicates at least in this area, in a complex and difficult field, a consensus has been reached between the Federal Government and the States. Unfortunately, a similar consensus in respect of a similarly complex problem, that of regulations governing the operation of heavy road vehicles, has not been reached and seems to be many, many years away. That is to the detriment of our nation as an added unnecessary cost on road transport. I hope that we can pursue this problem with the same kind of goodwill which has obviously resulted in reaching a consensus in respect of the items I have just mentioned. 
Reference to crimes at sea is omitted from this Bill and will be covered by separate legislation. The Bill also extends the Minister's power to make orders, granting greater flexibility in the specification of technical rules. The making of such orders may compare with the issuing of Air Navigation Orders under the Air Navigation Act and is in line with modern requirements. The Opposition, except where I have otherwise noted, finds no fault with these departures from the initial legislation of the Australian Labor Government. The aim of both the present and previous governments must be to provide the best possible legislative framework within which Australia's vital maritime industry may function. 
I now turn to the five international conventions to which Australia will become a party following the enactment of this legislation. The International Convention relating to the Limitation of the Liability of Owners of Seagoing Ships 1957 serves to increase the amounts to which a shipowner may limit his liability in the case of claims brought against the owner. Shipowners will not, however, be entitled to limit their liability in cases of damage to harbour works or wreck removal. In my own home city of Newcastle, the wreck of the vessel  Cygna  lies as a hazard to fishing vessels, and has languished on the beach near the suburb of Stockton for five years pending the conclusion again of complex litigation as to who bears the responsibility. If the Minister replies in this debate I am sure the people of Newcastle would like to learn from him what the latest position is in relation to the  Cygna. 
Section 59b of the Bill prevents shipowners from limiting their liability in the event of claims by crew members serving under Commonwealth articles of agreement. I am pleased to note that the Minister considered the views of the maritime trade unions in this respect. Australian compliance with the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea and the more understandable definition of the rules of the road at sea, and the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, is another step towards greater safety in the maritime industry. Worthy of special note are the provisions of SOLAS, or safety of life at sea. The provisions of this convention were aimed at greater oil tanker safety. 
In answer to a question on notice, the Minister for Transport stated that from 1 August 1977 to 31 December 1978, a total of 480 defects were found in 122 tankers entering Australian ports. These ranged from faulty fire appliances, gas indicators and navigation equipment to defective life saving appliances, flame screens, and cargo valves. Unfortunately, in a statement on 15 January 1979, following the conclusion of the inspection procedures I have referred to and the  Betelguese  disaster at Bantry Bay, Ireland, in which 50 lives were lost, the Minister attempted I believe to play down the seriousness of the threat posed by certain tankers in Australian waters. He merely stated in his Press release that a number of deficiencies had been found during inspections. It was only when I innocently asked him for more information on how many defects there were that the House learned that 480 defects were involved, some of them obviously of a very serious nature. 
Definitive action has yet to be announced on a report into oil pollution by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation which last September recommended the compilation of an official registry of ships failing to meet adequate equipment and safety standards. The Committee also called for the introduction by the Australian Maritime College of comprehensive training courses on tanker safety as a matter of priority. I understand that there has been some short term action taken in respect of both of those items. However, the Opposition is looking for some more definitive and permanent kind of action in response to those kinds of recommendations. The destruction of the  Betelguese  is far from being an isolated incident. 
About 20 tankers have been lost in the past four years after explosion, collision or other accidents. On 29 June 1976 the  Cellana  caught fire in Sydney Harbour, resulting in the death of three crew members. In all, six cases of fire aboard tankers in Australian waters have been recorded in the last decade by the Department of Transport. The tankers subject to the greatest risk would appear to be those registered under the so-called flags of convenience. At least 25 per cent of tankers calling at Australian ports in the period between 1 August 1977 and 31 December 1978 were vessels registered under flags of convenience. A representative of the Queensland Coast and Torres Strait Pilot Service told the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation that around 40 per cent of the ships he piloted had substandard equipment. He said also that a very large percentage of ships afloat under flags of convenience have absolutely appalling standards both in trained navigating personnel and equipment. 
Whilst there may have been some response to the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, the Opposition is looking to a permanent set of procedures which will be ongoing. I understand that the Department of Transport and the United States Government are currently preparing a list of substandard tankers which could then be barred from Australian ports until such time as the standard of equipment on those vessels was brought up to the standards set out in the international conventions to which I have referred. Whilst the use of flag of convenience vessels may enable the shipper to secure lower rates than otherwise would be the case, the gain is one of cold comfort if the lives of seamen and those living in close proximity to ports are endangered. At least 10 major Australian tanker berths are located in the vicinity of residential or industrial areas. In reply to a question on notice to the Minister for Transport on 4 April this year, the Minister stated: 
Australian experience has shown that these berths present no greater danger to persons or property than the terminals which they service. 
I take this opportunity to rebut that very simplistic definition of the situation. I have already referred to the evidence of the Torres Strait pilot about the appalling standards obtaining on international tankers and on vessels traversing Torres Strait flying under flags of convenience. Whilst oil installations and tanker berths as they exist in a passive state without vessels visiting those berths represent one standard of risk, once a vessel that does not meet the required international standards in respect of safe operations comes into those berths a totally new hazard is created. One could just imagine what would be likely to happen in Botany Bay, for instance, if, due to some malfunction of equipment or the poor qualifications of the crew on board a flag of convenience tanker, a fire were to develop. I leave it to the imagination of honourable members to determine the result. 
What needs to be brought home when we are referring to the standard and competency of crews on board flag of convenience vessels is that in a number of cases these vessels can be manned by only one qualified officer. The remainder of the crew can be made up with what are in effect sea-going labourers. The implication from reports so far seems to be that the standard of crew participation and the quality of radar equipment could have been major contributing factors to the massive tanker collision a few weeks ago in central American waters. The tankers of today are getting larger and larger, not smaller. The risks they pose to residential development and to people's lives are becoming greater and greater, not fewer and fewer. In those kinds of circumstances, whilst we as a nation are prepared to take advantage of cheap labour costs and cheaper freight rates from flag of convenience vessels, we should also be very much aware that we are obliged to accept the high increase in danger that goes with the operation of those kinds of vessels. 
As I mentioned earlier, the legislation also provides for the establishment of manning scales. Equally importantly, it provides for the establishment of a formal qualification structure and competency standards for officers and crew aboard vessels operating on the Australian coast under Australian registry. The development of those competency standards and the training of the crews involved will become a major responsibility of the Australian Maritime College. Again, the Australian Labor Party takes credit for the initiative in deciding that after all these years since settlement Australia is now old enough and competent enough to have its own maritime college. This can only produce better results in the maritime industry, safer ship operation and greater efficiency in the industry. It can lead to a life at sea being much more of a career for our younger people seeking work than has been the case in the past. I should like to mention a little instance of my own experience. Last Friday night I had the pleasure to meet accidentally four young men who had just completed a marine course at Newcastle Technical College. They were going back to their respective cities to register for pick-up. Each of them was hopeful; each of them was excited. I was very impressed with the style of these young men. Each of them was looking forward to a career at sea. But it is extremely difficult for young people to get a place either as an Australian National Line training cadet or with the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd- or even as a deck boy to start off in the industry. The shipping industry is one area today where we could be creating new jobs, not swopping jobs or cutting back on jobs. Better efficiency, better competency and better trained personnel can flow from the standards that are being written into this legislation and which will be met at the Australian Maritime College at Launceston. 
I turn to another area, the operation of AUSREP, the Australian ship reporting system. Again, this is covered in the legislation. I point out that the Australian Labor Party is also entitled to take full credit for the establishment of this system during its period in Government from 1972 to 1975. The initiative lay with the Minister for Transport of that period, the honourable member for Newcastle. As has been stated on previous occasions, the system was established on a voluntary basis and there has been a very good level of industry co-operation in respect of it. The Bill before us will make that voluntary operation permanent. As I understand it, the system was pioneered in this country. It was accepted on a voluntary basis both by international vessels and Australian vessels and is being adopted by other nations. It is good to see legislation coming before the Parliament to give the system permanent status. 
What prospects are there for the Australian shipping industry? The Australian Labor Party believes that there is a strong and growing future for the Australian maritime industry. That is evident from one thing alone and that is the rapid escalation of freight rates for coal from Australia to Japan since June of last year. The coal freight rate at that time was somewhere around $9 a tonne. It jumped to around $12 a tonne in the early part of this year and I believe that at the moment it is over $15 a tonne. The Government's argument last year was that the freight rates of Australian vessels were too high, the vessels were over-manned, their crews were pampered and that the wage rates were too high. We rejected those propositions when they were put in the past and we reject them again. But if $9 a tonne was too low a rate for Australian ships to meet in early 1978, the situation is different today when the rate is $ 1 5 a tonne. In support of that observation I remind the House that Howard Smith Ltd is having its own vessel built in Japan at the moment. It is to be a 38,000 tonne coal carrier to operate a long term contract between Australia and Japan. A second vessel is to be built and there is a likelihood of two further vessels being built, possibly up to 100,000 tonne capacity. It is projected that all those vessels will be manned by Australian seamen. They will provide extra new jobs for Australians looking for work. There is further evidence about the entry into the tanker trade of the  Ampol Sarel.  Again, this is an instance of an Australian company employing Australian crews on an Australian freight task for the benefit of Australia. 
We believe that the Government's opposition to the expansion of the Australian international shipping industry is based on a political motivation rather than on proper commercial analysis and consideration of the overall national interest. 
I refer to an article by  Mr D.  W. Hunt in the  Australian Sea Trader  magazine of December 1978. It states: 
It is widely believed that high labour costs are to blame for the situation. 
He was referring to why not many Australian vessels are used or why they cannot compete. He continued: 
Captain John Evans, Chief General Manager of Howard Smith Limited, put this situation into perspective during a recent address to the Transport Outlook Conference, held at the Lakeside International Motel in Canberra. 'It has been said that Australian crews are not as cheap as foreign crews. It is not unreasonable to hope that Australian crews will continue to be paid at higher rates than many foreign crews who, from the Australian viewpoint, accept very low remuneration. Australians are not used to living under primitive conditions and it should not be expected that seafarers should have less attractive conditions of employment than their shore counterparts. ' 
I think that is being recognised by the industry. It has certainly been recognised by Ampol Petroleum Ltd and by Howard Smith. They have put their money where their mouths are by putting vessels with Australian crews into the trade and the maritime unions have joined them in respect of manning scales. If the issue is approached in a sense of good will and of developing our Australian maritime industry I believe that considerable progress can be made. Our national policy towards Australian shipping and overseas trade should not be based on the objective of knocking maritime unions because they do not like conservative governments. The fact is that this nation was born out of the maritime industry, the British maritime industry. Our nation rides in international trade on the shoulders of the maritime industry. The maritime industry of Australia has a proud record of service in wartime and in peacetime. Almost all of our imports and exports and our international competitiveness depend on the efficiency of sea transport. 
Within the industry and in commerce generally it is accepted that freight costs form 10 per cent of the average free-on-board price of imports. Australia is the seventeenth largest trading nation of the world and the Minister for Transport says: 'It is all very well for Australian ships to participate in the international shipping trades if they can meet the commercial competition that is operating at the moment'. He certainly does not have that view in respect of the operations of domestic airlines. He does not have that view in respect of wheat exports, he does not have that view in respect of beef exports and he does not have that view in respect of wool exports. We can compete if Australian shipping is given the opportunity to compete on comparable terms with the vessels of those nations with which we compete. I could run through a whole range of special depreciation provisions similar to those announced last night in respect of the tourist industry to show what is made available by countries round the world to their shipping fleets. 
Australia has a record level of unemployment. It has a record balance of payments problem. It is therefore rather strange that the Government follows a deliberate course of suppressing the development of the international maritime industry using Australian crews or Australian-controlled vessels. In the United States the Carter Administration has sought to expand the participation of American-manned vessels in international trade for two reasons. The first is the reason I have mentioned, that is, that it provides additional employment for American citizens. The second is that the Carter Administration would feel happier in an international conflict if it knew that it was dependent for its supply of essential materials upon vessels controlled by American citizens and not be at the mercy of ships controlled by people of other nations. 
There is a place in Australia for development of the maritime industry. I am quite confident that if the problem is approached by the Government in consultation with the industry and with the trade union movement progress can be made. The provisions of this Bill do much to improve the maritime legislation in operation in this country, particularly, as I have mentioned, the competency and qualification standards of the manning scales. They are all to the good of the industry. As I have said, we have a bipartisan approach to that. The legislation is of a major nature and we have no objections to it other than in respect of section 100 of the principal Act, as I have mentioned earlier in my remarks. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
What are the details of the Government's instructions to the Bureau of Transport Economics to contain the provision for non-salary administrative items referred to under subdivision 658.2, Item 05, of his Department's estimates of expenditure for 1978-79 (Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1978-79, page 127). 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Australian  of 25 April 1979 to the effect that he has privately foreshadowed an end to parallel scheduling between TAA and Ansett; if so, is there any substance to the report and when does he propose to end parallel scheduling. 
Did he state that Australia would always have a high cost airline system; if so, what was the basis for this statement. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) What are the costs of providing cabin staff on each of the major aircraft types operated by domestic airline regular public transport licence holders in Australia. 
What percentage of total aircraft operating costs does cabin staff costs comprise for each of the major aircraft types in service with domestic airline regular public transport licence holders in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1 979: 
Which air services are to be subsidised in 1978-79 from his Department's estimates of expenditure under subdivision 655.3, Item 07 (Appropriation Act (No. 1)1 978-79, page 127). 
By what sum is each service to be subsidised and what is to be the basis used for determining the amount of subsidy in each case. 
Which services were subsidised in 1977-78 and for what sums. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
) At whatlocation(s) are the collapsible approach light masts referred to in contract C1/77/151 in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24 April 1979 (G16) to be sited. 
What were the general specifications of the light masts and how many are being purchased. 
Are similar masts available in Australia; if not, why not. 
Who were the unsuccessful competitors for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) What scheduled flights to what destinations are provided out of Australia each week by each international airline? 
What is the capacity provided for (a) first class and (b) other passengers by each international airline? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
1 ) Did he visit Coober Pedy and the Stuart Highway on 24 May 1 979 in company with  Mr S.  E. Calder, D.F.C., M.P., and  Senator D.  S. Jessop as stated in his press release of 24 May 1 979; if not, why not. 
If he did not make the visit did he advise the several hundred residents who had assembled for several hours at Coober Pedy to meet him that he would not be arriving; if so by what means and when was the advice conveyed; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
1 ) What was the task undertaken by a Mystere jet on 20 September 1978, as listed on page 38 of the schedules of special flights for RAAF, No. 34 Squadron. 
What was the cost of the direct flight from Canberra to Amberley, Qld. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
Did the tariff changes in respect of New Zealand imports in 1977 cause competitive disadvantages for some Australian companies; if so: 
which companies were disadvantaged in respect of which products; and 
b ) was this the cause of changes in tariffs in 1 978. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) In view of the fact that the DC9 and DC 10 aircraft are both built by McDonnell Douglas and of the possibility that metal fatigue may have contributed to the air disaster at Chicago on 25 May 1979, is he able to say (a) what are the current maximum allowable hours or cycles a DC9 engine may accumulate before it is compulsorily removed for inspection and test cell calibration, (b) what were the limiting hours or cycles when the aircraft was first introduced into service in Australia and when that was, (c) what type of inspections and tests, and at what intervals, are carried out on the DC9 engines operated by (i) Ansett Airlines and (ii) TAA and on how many occasions have the engine attachments bolts on the DC9 aircraft failed in Australian operations. 
If attachment bolts have failed, what airline was involved and what were the circumstances of the failure. 
Is he also able to say what would be the likely consequences (aircraft performance, etc.) which could follow the partial detachment in flight of a DC9 engine from the aircraft 's airframe. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
How many defects in DC 10 aircraft have been brought to the attention of his Department to date. 
) When, where and in what circumstances was each defect discovered. 
What was the nature of the defect in each case and what remedial action was taken. 
Have there been (a) delays in remedying defects of DC 10 aircraft and (b) disclosed defects in the aircraft which have yet to be remedied or which have contributed to aircraft accidents: if so, what were the circumstances. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
Further to his answer to Question No. 3893  (Hansard,  4 June 1979, page 2879), what was the (a) establishment and (b) number of officers available for duty at each of the relevant places and times referred to in the question. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1 979: 
1 ) Further to question No. 3866  (Hansard,  4 June 1979, page 2879), what was the value of contract LP353 1 referred to on page 97 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 24April I979(GI6). 
Who were the unsuccessful tenderers for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1 979: 
Further to his answer to question No. 3852  (Hansard,  4 June 1979, page 2878), what are the: 
purposes, 
functions, 
nature, 
utilisation rate 
capital cost, 
f ) maintenance cost 
operating costs per annum of the Dataflash message switching system. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a judgment by Daid County Court Judge Nesbitt which cast doubt on the accuracy of police radar speed detection devices used in the United States of America. 
) If so, are similar devices in use in Australia. 
Have any similar rulings been handed down by Australian Courts. 
Has the use of radar speed detection devices in Australia been affected by Judge Nesbitt 's ruling; if so, in what respects. 
Is he able to state what (a) action has been taken by those responsible for radar devices in Australia since Judge Nesbitt 's ruling and (b) is the nature of the training and instruction given to officers charged with the operation of radar speed detection equipment; if so, is this instruction adequate. 
Are radar devices affected by Judge Nesbitt 's ruling likely to be sufficiently improved in the near future to overcome his objections; if so, what improvements must be made. 
Which Australian States and Territories currently use radar devices for speed detection. 
What other speed detection devices or techniques are available. 
What advantages or disadvantages do the use of radar devices ha ve in comparison with other methods. 
Has the use of radar devices enabled an increased rate of detection and conviction where these devices are in use. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June 1 979: 
Further to Question No. 3494  (Hansard,  22 May 1979, page 2226) is he now able to say if he has made a decision to act on the recommendation of Part 1 of the report of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review that a detailed evaluation should be undertaken which takes account of real resource opportunity costs with a view to determining appropriate fare differentials between the various categories of fare types; if not, why not; and when does he expect to make a decision given the fact that the report was presented to him during early 1978. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June 1 979: 
Further to Question No. 3494  (Hansard,  22 May 1979, page 2226) is he now able to say why he was unable to provide an informative explanation in support of his answer to part (4) of that question. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June 1 979: 
1 ) Is the Government considering, or has it considered, a proposal to amalgamate the operations of Qantas Airways Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines; if so, what decision has been reached and what was the basis for that decision. 
If Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd, are amalgamated what changes will be made by the Government in respect of the operation of domestic airline services. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June1 979: 
What information is he able to provide on aircrew employed by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines and designated (a) reserve block holders and (b) flying block holders. 
In what circumstances are these crew utilised and where are they usually based. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June 1979. 
) How many aircrew by designation does Ansett Airlines and Trans-Australia Airlines employ on a reserve basis. 
What percentage does aircrew employed by each airline on a reserve basis form of total aircrew employed by each airline. 
What is the range of salaries payable to aircrew members employed on a reserve basis. 
What are the duties and conditions of aircrew employed on a reserve basis. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June1979: 
Did an incident involving an Ansett Fokker Friendship aircraft and another aircraft occur over Bass Strait about 24 November1978 as referred to in an article entitled 'Air Safety Standards Falling' which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 5 June1979; if so what was the specific nature of the incident and what action has been taken by him in respect of it. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
At what stage is the development of the Pritchard steam car project. 
In what year did funding of the project by the Commonwealth Government commence. 
What funds have been provided to the project by the Commonwealth Government in each year. 
Which Department has been responsible for this funding. 
Under what item in that Department's estimates was funding provided and what further funding is expected to be made. 
When is the Pritchard car likely to (a) go into commercial production and (b) go on sale to the public. 
What is the likely production cost of the car. 
By what means is the car likely to be marketed to the public. 
What safeguards are in existence to prevent the Pritchard car project from failing to reach the market as a result of purchase of the patents to the vehicle or the Pritchard Steam Power Company by major motor manufacturers. 
Does the Pritchard steam car meet the various emission control standards, including, where relevant, the third stage of Australian Design Rule 27 A. 
Will the (a) Australian Government and (b) State Governments purchase production models of the car for official use for trial and evaluation. 
Just be patient, little man. It was referred to that body for inquiry and report. What happened then? The fact is that from then on, the then Labor Government started to spend the first dollars on the acquisition of land for the extension and development of Brisbane Airport. It was not the McMahon Government, not the other governments - 
We will hear about it if the honourable member can produce information to the contrary, but I know he cannot. The report by the Bureau of Transport Economics was completed at the end of 1975. It was sat upon by the Minister for Transport for four months. It was not tabled in this chamber in 1975, as was said earlier by a  speaker  opposite. It was tabled on 7 April 1976. Why the delay? That is all that honourable members and the people of Brisbane have to ask themselves because for 23 years Brisbane Airport languished. It was during the term of the Labor Government that the new international airport terminal was built at Brisbane. It was during the term of the Labor Government that the access road was improved and paid for. All that is happening today, which we support and which we think is a proper responsibility of a national parliament, is that the proposal in respect of the Brisbane Airport is to be referred to the Public Works Committee for proper examination and report back to this Parliament. In the light of that support, one would expect that the proposal would go ahead. Let us be clear about that. 
I did not expect to hear the cynical chest thumping from the honourable member for Bowman or the honourable member for Lilley. If I may be brutal, the honourable member for Lilley, though he claims much, has a very shabby record in respect of Brisbane Airport going back to the time when he was a Minister. He is not a Minister now and it would seem from the remarks of his colleague that he can afford to be more of a spendthrift. 
Let us stick to the facts, little man. The estimate for the construction of the new Brisbane international airport is $ 167m and the provision in this Budget is $3m. I repeat that the provision in the Budget is $3m. I think I can conclude on that note. That illustrates the worth of the Government's commitment- $3 m out of a total of $ 167m. The Opposition is happy to see the proposal referred to the Public Works Committee for examination and report. The Opposition continues its support for the case of the people of Queensland and Brisbane that the new Brisbane international airport should be constructed and that the people of Brisbane should have access to proper international services. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to complaints and/or questions relating to the quality and durability of a particular brand of coated galvanised steel roofing tiles; if so: 
through which Division of his Department were the complaints and /or questions of durability raised; 
when was the first complaint and /or question raised and how many more have been received as at 3 1 May 1979; and 
what action has he taken in respect of the complaints and/or questions. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Canberra Times  of 23 April 1979 that the Government is considering the possibility of selling TAA to private interests. 
If so, is he able to say (a) if there is any substance to thereports and (b) when the projected sale is likely to occur. 
Has any organisation orindividual(s) expressed to the Government an interest in the purchase, transfer, or amalgamation of TAA. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) Further to his reply to question No. 814  (Hansard,  2 May 1978, page 1676) is he now able to say if the more detailed Departmental study of the broader aspects of the fire in Mascot Drive on 15 October 1977 has been completed; if so, what (a) are the (i) specific findings of the study: (ii) recommendations of the study, and (b) action he has taken as a result of the study. 
) If not, when will the study be completed. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) What was the balance outstanding on loans obtained by (a) Ansett Transport Industries and its associates or subsidiaries and (b) TAA under the provisions of the various Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Acts as at 30 June in each year since 1968. 
What were the foreign exchange losses or profits on those borrowings in each year since 1967-68 in respect of parts(1)(a)and(1)(b). 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
In view of the Government's decisions to abolish 6 monthly indexation of age and invalid pensions and to purchase 2 Boeing 707 airliners for Ministerial travel abroad, has he given consideration to the introduction of concessional domestic and international air fares for pensioners, if so, what decision has been reached. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
What circumstances require the provision of an internal climate control system to hangar No. 4 annex as referred to on page 61 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 8 May  1979(G18). 
Was a similar system in operation previously. 
3 ) Who were the unsuccessful tenderers for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) What are the proficiency standards for (a) certificated and (b) non-certificated personnel serving on board ships registered in (i) Liberia, (ii) Panama, (iii) Bermuda, (iv) Hong Kong, (v) Singapore, (vi) the United States of America, (vii) Sweden and (viii) the United Kingdom that enter Australian waters. 
What are the minimum numbers of (a) certificated and (b) non-certificated personnel and the designations of these personnel required aboard seagoing vessels registered in the nations referred to in part ( 1 ). 
) What are the requirements in respect of pans ( I ) and (2 ) for comparable vessels of Australian registration. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
1 ) When did (a) TAA and (b) Ansett Transport Industries Ltd lodge their annual reports on airline activities for (a) 1975-76,(b) 1976-77 and(c) 1977-78. 
) On what date was each of the annual reports presented to Parliament. 
What were the reasons for any delay in presenting the reports to the Parliament in each case. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Financial Review  of 1 6 May 1 979 entitled 'Industry Plan to Combat Rebating'; if so, is there any substance in the report. 
) Are references to the submission mentioned accurate and what action has he taken in respect of the submission. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 June 1 979: 
1 ) Was it a practice for TAA to borrow from the superannuation funds of its flight staff in the course of its trading activities; if so, when did the practice cease and what were the circumstances that led to its cessation. 
Were complaints against the practice received from any source; if so, who were complainants. 
3 ) Is he able to say if this practice is pursued by any other Government business undertakings. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an item in the  Daily Commercial News  of 31 May 1979 entitled 'Support for Ipec', if so, is it a fact, as stated by the  President  of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, that the operation of DC3 aircraft was not in the best interests of efficiency and safety. 
Is the 4-engined Argosy aircraft, which IPEC is prohibited from using by him, safer than the 40 year old twin-engined DC3 aircraft. 
) Is it also a fact that only 0. 1 per cent of total freight is carried by air in Australia compared with the world average of 2 percent. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports in the  Daily Commerical News  of 30 May 1979 of a new range of Cushman battery electric vehicles to be released on the Australian market by Yorke-Yale Ltd of Adelaide. 
Are any Cushman battery electric vehicles at present operating in Australia; if so, where and in what capacity, and how successful have the vehicles in service been. 
Has his Department made any assessment of the new vehicles to be introduced; if so, what were the results of this assessment. 
Has he any plans to introduce, on a trial basis, electric vehicles from the Cushman range or from any other manufacturer, into the service of the Australian Government; if so, where and when will this be done. 
Is he able to state whether any action on battery electric vehicles is envisaged or being taken by State Governments. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1 979: 
1 ) What sums were received from each type of activity associated with the operation of major Commonwealth airports during the years (a) 1976-77 and (b) 1977-78 and the period (c) 1 July, 1978 to date. 
What expenditure was incurred relating to each of the activities referred to in part (1 ) and what other expenditure was incurred relating to the provisions of services at Commonwealth airports during the years (a) 1976-77 and (b) 1 977-78 and the period (c)1 July 1 978 to date. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
On what occasions since11 November 1975 has he made statements to the Parliament and elsewhere relating to the. exercise of his responsibilities under Air Navigation Regulation 106a and illegal air fare discounting. 
Which travel organisations or airlines have been mentioned by him in those statements and on what dates were they mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
) Further to question No. 3 1 1 8 (  Hansard,1  May 1 979, page 1689) what are the specific reasons that led to his conclusion, provided in his answer, that public disclosure of the 7 travel organisations that have been visited by Commonwealth Police would adversely affect their operations. 
What are the differing factors between the much publicised raid by Commonwealth Police on ACTU Jetset Travel offices at the instigation of his Department and the Commonwealth Police visits to the 7 travel organisations whose names he has refused to reveal. 
Why did he mention ACTU Jetset Travel publicly in relation to the provisions of Air Navigation Regulation 1 06  a  but not disclose the names of other travel organisations that had been visited. 
Did he consider that public mention of ACTU Jetset Travel in respect of AN R 1 06a provisions would not have an adverse effect on their operations. 
) Will he now disclose the names of the 7 travel organisations referred to in his answer and the locations visited by Commonwealth Police. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Further to question No. 3 1 1 7  (Hansard,  6 June 1 979, page 3075), why has he refused to disclose the trading names and proprietors of the 59 travel organisations investigated by his Department in the exercise of his responsibilities and powers under Air Navigation Regulation 106a whereas he has made numerous public statements and appearances relating to similar actions he initiated against ACTU Jetset Travel. 
2 ) What was the specific reasoning that led to his decision to publicise the actions taken by his Department against ACTU Jetset Travel in relation to ANR 106a. 
Has he instituted legal proceedings against ACTU Jetset Travel under the provisions of AN R 106a. 
How many organisations are currently under investigation under the provisions of AN R 106a. 
What are the trading names and proprietors of the organisations referred to in part (4). 
What is the current status of the investigations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 May 1 979: 
) What is the name, classification and Department of each Australian official negotiating reduced air fares between Australia and the ASEAN nations. 
What positions has each official held since1 January 1976. 
When did representatives of the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs begin to participate in the talks. 
Is he able to say what is the name, classification and employing agency of each member of the ASEAN negotiating teams. 
On what dates and at what locations have talks been held with the representatives of the ASEAN nations. 
As my colleague points out, they are all on the Liberal Party finance committee. Yet amazingly, only a few weeks ago, Ansett was able to place an order in one day for the purchase of $ 16m worth of shares in Ampol Petroleum Ltd. It has been reported in responsible financial journals that Ansett has spent $26m buying Ampol shares. The question is: Where did this money come from? How could a company, which a few months ago could not prop up a subsidiary in which it was a major shareholder and which it allowed go into liquidation and ruin many thousands of small shareholders and depositors, suddenly produce $26m? Ansett obviously used money which ostensibly belongs to public shareholders. Ansett will need to improve its share market rating. It will also need to come up with some benefits to salve the feelings of those friends who supported it by paying $1.75 a share, which means that inevitably there will be increased pressure for higher returns leading to higher air fares. If the Minister is the responsible Minister at the time, such a proposition will be rubber stamped, as has been the practice in the past. 
Where did the money that was speculated by the participants in the Ansett poker game come from? From information available to date it appears that Ampol has spent $26m, that Ansett has spent $26m, that  Mr Holmes  a 'Court has spent $13m, that Brambles Industries Ltd has spent $15m and that the Pioneer group of companies has spent $20m, making a total of $100m, in the greatest poker game in history. It does not matter that the pawns in the game are the airline passengers of Australia. It does not matter that they are the people who are dependent upon essential air services in this country and who have to cope with the very real problem of the level of air fares. The Bell group of companies owns 12V4 per cent of Ansett, Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd seems to have acquired 14 per cent of Ansett shares, Ansett married into 20 per cent of Ampol, Ampol has made it incestuous by getting 20 per cent of Ansett and the friends of Ansett seem to own 9 per cent of Ansett also. I leave it to the financial wizards to work out the ultimate effect of that. But the total bill of well over $ 100m is equivalent to several weeks of the borrowing program of this national Government. 
The money is not being used to increase productivity, to improve air services, to generate new jobs. It is being used to finance a squalid back room game of poker. It is being used to line the pockets of those who are able to control public shareholders' funds and who have access to assets which are financed by Federal legislation. Those actions are condoned by a government that has remained mute. It has said not one word. Allied to that is a move within Government circles to dispose of a publicly-owned airline, Trans-Australia Airlines. Quite clearly, the exercise here is the development of a privately owned airline monopoly in this country. The Minister for Transport, after much questioning and correspondence, told me a few days ago that the Government's domestic airline policy is predicated upon continuation of the two-airline agreement and the operation of a government owned airline and a privately owned airline. I want to believe him. The Opposition wants to believe him. The Australian public wants to believe him because it owns Trans-Australia Airlines. But the man who let the cat out of the bag, the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who told the Federal Liberal Council in Perth on 23 April that the sale of TAA was being considered as part of a government expenditure program, has refused to answer a question which has been on the Notice Paper since 18 May which asks him to confirm the kind of statement which the Minister for Transport has written to me. Not only the Minister for Finance but also the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has refused to confirm what the Minister for Transport has said. The two principal finance Ministers in this Government both refuse to back up the statement of the Minister for Transport. 
The Australian community will not allow publicly owned assets to be sold up to line the pockets of private speculators who feed funds into the slush accounts of those who sit opposite. Civil aviation was pioneered and developed in this country not for the benefit of private speculators and friends of conservative governments. It was pioneered and developed to provide essential transport services to the people of this nation. That is why it exists. The reality is that we have a two-airline agreement. The reality is that we have a commercial airline and a publicly owned airline. The system has developed and worked reasonably well until recent years. I make quite clear the position of the Opposition. The Australian Labor Party is committed to ensuring that air services in this country are made available to as wide a range of the community as possible and that the level of air fares should be as low as possible commensurate with the required and necessary standard of safety in the operation of those services. The function of government is to ensure the achievement of those objectives. 
On 20 May this year I said that notice should be given of termination of the two-airline agreement, and as far as the Australian Labor Party is concerned that date stands as the commencement of effective notice of termination of the agreement. We have from the Minister a continuation of the status quo because his friends are involved. The Government clearly, by its silence, its inactivity and its endorsement mutely and otherwise of what is going on, has failed to protect the interests of airline travellers in this country. What is going to happen to Ansett? Let me just describe one of the scenarios. The most popular scenario - 
-The Government is not able to provide information. The honourable member may well laugh, because he is as ignorant as the Australian community is on the subject. The scenario being described around the House is that the television interests will go to  Mr Murdoch's  organisation; that Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd wants the road transport and airlines operations; that Ampol Petroleum Ltd will continue with its fuel supply contracts with Ansett; and that the remainder will be sold off as an asset stripping exercise. I do not say that that is what is going to happen, or that that is what they want to happen. That is one of the scenarios that have been described. The management of air services in this country should not be allowed to continue with that kind of speculation current. The Government has a responsibility to protect airline travellers and to maintain an effective and viable airline service system in this country. It is not carrying out that responsibility, and it stands to be condemned for its abdication of responsibility in these areas. 
I did not issue a Press release. I gave a statement to the  Daily Mirror.  The report by the  Daily Mirror  attributing the statement to the Minister is correct. The Minister is responsible for the answers given to the Parliament and it is correct to say 'the Minister said'. The Minister said it in writing in answer to my question. I think you are up a tree, my old friend. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 11 p.m. until Tuesday, 11 September next at 2.15 p.m., unless  Mr Speaker  shall fix an alternative day or hour of meeting, to be notified by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
Did the expenditure of $ 10.201m from the Advance to the Minister for Finance for the purchase of 2 VIP Boeing 707 aircraft result from (a) a decision by him or (b) a decision by Cabinet. 
) When was the relevant decision made. 
What were the specific details submitted in support of, or criticism of, the proposed expenditure. 
Was the advice of the Minister for Defence sought prior to the decision being taken; if so, what were the details of the advice provided. 
What were the details of the submission from Qantas Airways Ltd justifying urgent payment for the 2 VIP Boeing 707 aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an answer provided by the Minister for Social Security relating to payments for VIP aircraft as reported in Senate  Hansard,  3 April 1979, page 1 2 1 1 ; if so, is he able to provide specific details of each of the estimates on which the amount of $ 1 3.865m was authorised for expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance on the 2 VIP Boeing 707 aircraft purchased for the Prime Minister's use. 
Does $3.664m of the amount authorised remain unexpended; if so, what are the specific details of the estimates on which the unexpended amount was based. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) What accounts are prepared by his Depanment in respect of the receipt of revenue and expenditure associated with the provision and operation of major Commonwealth airports. 
What form do the accounts take and what results do they show (surplus, deficiency) during the years (a) 1976-77 and (b) 1977-78 and the period (c) I July 1978 to date. 
What is the calculated return on Commonwealth airport investment in the years and period referred to in part (2). 
Has a yield target been set in respect of Commonwealth investment in (a) total major Commonwealth airports and (b) individual airports; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1 979: 
How many persons at major Commonwealth airports are employed on duties associated with (a) airport planning and design, (b) airport construction, (c) airport maintenance and (d) airport operational services by designation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June 1 979: 
1 ) What information is he able to provide on the flight cancellation-substitution policy practised by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines. 
2 ) What is the purpose of the policy. 
Does it result in operational cost savings to the airlines: if so, to what degree in respect of (a) crewing costs and (b) aircraft operating costs. 
What are the effects of the flight cancellationsubstitution policy on costs associated with the employment of clerical staff by the two airlines. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an item in the Melbourne  Age  of 5 June 1979 entitled 'Air Safety Standards Falling'; is so, is there any substance in the report. 
What are the Departmental regulations referred to in the report, which have eased restrictions on small planes, to which aircraft do they apply and how long have they applied. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
1 ) Is he able to say by what amount the demand for aviation fuel in Australia for international airliners has increased or decreased since 1 February 1979. 
) What percentage does the alteration in demand constitute of the usual uplift of aviation fuel. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) Further to question No. 3736  (Hansard,  4 June 1979, page 2878), is he now able to say on whose specific recommendation within his Department was the decision made to require modifications to the standard design ofthe Walter Ultra Large Fire Tenders. 
2 ) In preparing the specifications for the modified design were the possible costs/advantages of the modified design considered; if so, what were the results of that consideration. 
At which American and Canadian airports have the Australian-type Walter Tenders been introduced and when. 
Is he now able to say what the difference was in the purchase price of the Walter Tenders acquired by his Department and the standard design (a) when the Australian Specifications were being drawn and (b) when the Australian purchase contract was being signed by his Department. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1 979: 
I ) On what dates were (a) tenders called and (b) contracts let for the purchase of the Walter Ultra Large Fire Tenders referred to in his answer to question No. 3736  (Hansard,  4 June 1979, page 2878). 
What was the value of the contracts. 
Who were the unsuccessful tenderers and what was (a) the country of origin of each and (b) the intended country of manufacture of the fire tenders. 
How many Walter Tenders were purchased. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 June 1 979: 
How many Walter Ultra Large Fire Tenders have been purchased by the Government. 
) Where are they located. 
When did each unit enter service and at what location. 
When was each unit made available to the fire line at each location. 
For what period has each tender been out of service since acquisition. 
For what period has each tender been unavailable (a) for service at their respective fire lines since acquisition and (b) for fire line duty since commissioning. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Is there any substance in reports published in the  Daily Commercial News  of 5 June 1979 entitled 'Massive sackings follow Tiger Line' that up to 750 seamen and watersiders could lose their jobs if  Mr Gordon  Barton's Tiger Line commenced operation. 
Have both the Australian National Line and Bulkships indicated that services will be withdrawn if the Tiger Line goes into service. 
What are the (a) names, (b) owners, (c) pons of registry, (d) age, (e) type and tonnage and (f) crew size of all vessels regularly operating between Tasmanian ports and the mainland. 
Do all these vessels conform to the recommendations of the Nimmo Report  regarding types of  ships serving Tasmania. 
Is it a fact that the Tiger Line cargoes from Hobart to the mainland would cross Tasmania by road. 
If so, would this require 294 road movements per day and an extra 75 trucks to travel the roads per day. 
Could this task be performed by the Australian National Railways Commission. 
Will the introduction of  Mr Barton  's vessels detrimentally affect the Port of Hobart. 
How many cargo handling movements are involved between Hobart and Melbourne (a) by the present conventional service and (b) under  Mr Barton's  proposals. 
10) What is the present usual depot-to-depot service time for a container, and the comparable time under  Mr Barton's  proposals, between Melbourne and Hobart. 
What time would be accounted for by ( a ) sea and ( b ) land sectors of  Mr Barton's  service betwen Melbourne and Hobart. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Newcastle Morning Herald  of 23 April 1 979 entitled 'TAA sale under review: Robinson; if so, is there any substance in the report. 
Would the sale of (a) TAA and (b) other statutory authorities result in a lessening demand on government spending; if so, what reduction in government spending would result from the sale of each of the various statutory authorities that were being considered for sale. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on'30 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an item in the Brisbane  Courier Mail  of 29 May 1979 entitled 'No Air Fare Package- Singapore', relating to the aviation talks in Kuala Lumpur held in May 1979; if so, is there any substance in the report. 
Has Singapore's Permanent Secretary (Communications) stated that he and his ASEAN counterparts have denied that they agreed to recommend a settlement in the aviation dispute to their respective economic ministers. 
Have Singapore foreign ministry officials told Australian Government officials privately that no agreement had been reached in Kuala Lumpur. 
Are further talks planned with the Singapore Government on the issue; if so, when and where will they be held. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 6 June 1 979: 
What action will he take to implement those recommendations contained in the Bureau of Transport Economics Occasional Paper Number 26 entitled ' Usage Patterns of Urban Cars- Their Effect on Fuel Consumption and Emissions' which includes (a) studies with the objective of determining the distributions of trip length, trip frequency and annual distance travelled for passenger vehicles in Australian urban areas other than Melbourne, (b) investigations of all aspects of the approaches utilised by overseas regulatory bodies in the design of weighting procedures for cold/hot starts for passenger vehicles to determine their suitability for emissions and fuel consumption measurement in Australian urban areas and (c) investigations of the design of test procedures for fuel consumption measurement to ensure that the effect of mean trip length on fuel consumption is taken into account. 
By whom will any investigation be conducted. 
When are concrete results expected for these investigations. 
Will the results of future investigations be made public and published. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1 979: 
Further to his answer to question No. 1074 (Senate  Hansard,  5 October 1976, page 1006) is he now able to provide any more information (a) on the cryogenic treatment of used tyres and (b) the utilisation of used tyres in road construction and surfacing purposes. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
1 ) What were the findings of the Loder Committee in 1965 in respect of the extension of the rail link from Alice Springs to Darwin. 
What studies have been carried out since 1965 of the feasibility of extending the rail link from Alice Springs to Darwin and what was the result of those studies. 
3 ) Does the Government propose to extend the TarcoolaAlice Springs rail link to Darwin; if so, when is construction expected to commence; if not, why not. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, this Budget can best be described as being a continuing attack on the Australian family unit and a treatment by this Government of the sons and daughters of Australians as being dispensible. They are to be the inflation fodder of this Government, and they have been the inflation fodder of successive Fraser administrations since 1975. In commencing my remarks I would like quickly to quote some statements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on these matter. On 2 February 1976, the Prime Minister in a statement headed 'Putting Jobs First' said: 
The Government's paramount responsibility is to overcome inflation, so that there will be jobs for all those who want to work. 
What hollow words! Since then and in the last two Budgets, this Government has pursued a course of increasing inflation and it has pursued policies that have increased and will continue to prolong unemployment. On 21 November 1977, the Prime Minister said: 
Inflation is nine per cent and falling. 
They are rather interesting words because the Budget states that inflation in the last financial year was nine per cent and is rising. It is a very strange implementation of a policy that the Prime Minister sought to put in November 1977. On the same date, he said: 
We have ended the big tax rip-off. 
Again the Budget shows that tax collections from individuals in the current financial year under this Government's policies and regime are forecast to rise by 18.12 per cent. The words are not matched by the deeds. In Brisbane on 11 December 1978, the Treasurer said: 
Our goal is much lower inflation- not just the maintenance of the improvement we have achieved during the last three years. 
Having said that, he then introduced a horror Budget last May that substantially added to inflation and his 1979-80 Budget will further add to the rate of inflation which he admits in the Budget statements will go into double digits. Humbug is the only word to describe these statements of the Prime Minister and the Treasurer. 
The Prime Minister went one better on 7 January 1977 when he told the Young Liberals movement: 
Tax indexation also enhances our democracy and increases governmental accountability to its citizens. No longer will governments be able to exact greater and greater portions of people's incomes merely because of inflation. 
The 1979 Budget contains no tax indexation and taxation by stealth is rampant. The Budget forecasts an increase of 18.2 per cent in income tax collections from individuals. There are heavy increases in indirect taxes through a petrol tax and by a 12 per cent increase in the customs duty rate in the 1977-78 Budget and a further 2 per cent increase in the customs duty in the May horror Budget. 
This Budget should be seen in the context of the May 1979 horror Budget. Together they constitute a harsh attack on the living standards of Australian families and are the latest instalment of the Fraser Government's plan to redistribute income and wealth from the less well off to the wealthy. In essence, to those who have, more shall be given at the expense of the middle to low income families of Australia. That is the real objective of this Government. Australia is being forced to suffer unnecessarily under the enforced austerity policies of this Government. Job security is a prime worry of those who have jobs. They worry about how long they will continue to have work under this administration. Parents whose sons and daughters have been unable to obtain employment are worried. Families have seen their living standards and purchasing power progressively decline under successive Fraser administrations. Australians are angry and confused at the chaos surrounding the health service changes which have been made by this Government. They resent the increased tax burden direct and indirect that this Budget places on them. 
Australians resent the doubling of petrol prices on the pretext that the member nations of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries are responsible for increasing prices in Australia. That is a fallacy. It is a fraud on the Australian people. Petrol prices in this country have been doubled as a direct result of the policies of this 
Government, not because of the actions of the OPEC nations. The OPEC decisions affect petrol prices abroad but they do not determine petrol prices in this country. What all Australians are coming to realise now is that every petrol bowser in this country in effect is a tax collection office. Every time they go to a petrol pump to fill up the tank of their car they will know when they read the meter that almost half of the meter charge will go straight to the Federal Treasury. 
Australians resent the broken promises of this Government and the many falsehoods of the Prime Minister and his Ministry of mediocrity. Above all, they resent the unfairness of the Government's policies, the divisiveness and confrontationist attitudes of this Prime Minister. They now realise that in 1975 and in 1977 they were deliberately misled by those now in government and they have already made up their minds to remove this Government from office at first opportunity. They know that Australia is a nation rich in natural resources and that our people are talented, dedicated and want a fair opportunity to share in the wealth and benefits of this nation. Above all, they want a chance for their sons and daughters to enjoy the independence and dignity that they could have under an honest and responsible government with policies directed towards equality and national interest. 
We have heard much braying in recent days from those opposite about former Prime Minister Whitlam- attempts to regurgitate and to mangle history. Let us have a look at the history of the present Prime Minister and those who stand behind him. Prime Minister Fraser 's road to office is littered with the political corpses of his former colleagues. No Prime Minister in Australian history has surpassed the record of this Prime Minister for ministerial and back bench sackings, suspensions and resignations. This Prime Minister came to office on the shoulders of a conspiracy and an hysteria manipulated by his powerful friends in the media. Where is the evidence of the impropriety of which the Labor Ministers were accused in 1975? Four years later, not one shred of evidence has been produced. It cannot be produced because it never existed. Like leopards, Liberals do not change their spots. 
For more than 90 per cent of the period since World War II, conservative governments have controlled our nation's affairs. The structural weaknesses, the incompetitiveness of our industries and the weakness of our economy are the result of the policies of those successive conservative governments. They were not suddenly developed in the three years of the Labor 
Government. Let us put that idea to rest once and for all. The conservatives in all their years of office have pursued ad hoc policies and then sought to blame someone else for the failure of these policies. 

 Mr Whitlam told this chamber on 22 August 1 972 when speaking to the 1 972-73 Budget: 
Not since the early 1930s has Australia been presented in two successive years with two such contradictory Budgets as this year's and last year's. Last year all brakes on; this year, in the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  all stops out. 
He continued: 
Is the Government in any way to blame for one of the slowest growth rates in the developed world? 'Not a bit of it', says the Treasurer. On the contrary, he says: 'We did well' ... He says: 'The international monetary crisis jolted world confidence severely. Do not blame me, blame the Americans or the Japanese or the gnomes of Zurich.' Then', says the Treasurer, 'there were wage pressures. Do not blame me, blame the unions and the white collar organisations.' There was a marked set-back to business confidence. 'Do not blame me', says the Treasurer, 'blame business'. And he says finally: - 
Rather prophetically: 
Consumers became more cautious. Do not blame me, blame the people of Australia. Blame anyone and everyone except those charged with the economic management of this country- . . .' 
Since 1975, the Labor Government has been blamed for the fall in company profits, yet again in the same Budget debate of 22 August 1 972 the former member for Melbourne Ports, the  Hon.  Frank Crean, referring to company profits and to the national income figures that had just been released, said: 
What do the figures show as far as company income is concerned? I will give the current prices. They show that company profits for ordinary companies are lower now than they were 2 years ago. 
Those comments were made by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  as Leader of the Opposition, and by the  Hon.  Frank Crean, referring to the two years of conservative government prior to the entry of the Labor Government in 1 972. It shows that what is happening under this Government is the same as that which happened in 1970-72. The Government confrontation with unions that existed prior to 2 December 1972 was resumed by the Prime Minister in his personal abuse of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions yesterday. No, the conservatives have not changed their spots. As ever they confront and divide the community and constantly seek scapegoats for their own failures and falsehoods. They blame the unions, member nations of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, international conditions, the doctors, the States, or anyone and anything in order to cover up their own incompetence and mismanagement of our economy. The masquerade of this Government as a competent economic manager is coming to an end, as its friends in the media have pointed out. Let me quote from the editorial in the Sydney  Sun  of 25 May, which was the day after the May horror Budget. The editorial titled that Budget 'The Tax Grab'. It says: 
The mini-Budget is little more than a giant con-trick against the average wage earner. 
It goes on to say: 
As well, the Government's latest Medibank fiddle will cost nearly everyone more, and although  Mr Howard  can honestly say this is not a tax increase, the distinction will not be apparent in family budgets. 
The Government leans heavily on the claim that it is behaving responsibly with firm measures to reduce its deficit. 
If that is so, the Government has been wasting the nation 's time for nearly four years with some policies which clearly were inadequate, cosmetic or deceptive. 
For the Government to be 'honest* about breaking promises is to give up any claim to sound economic management since 1975. 
And that was its sole justification for the turmoil of that year. 
I repeat: The masquerade of this Government as a competent, economic manager is coming to an end, as its media friends have pointed out. Even the Fairfax newspapers have recognised the deception of this Government. They have identified it as a group of economic charlatans. The Budget which is before us is contractionary. It will prolong record unemployment. It will increase health costs to families. It will increase direct and indirect taxation. It will reduce consumer spending and it will force up transport costs, with consequent effects upon Australian industries, and so reduce their level of competitiveness in the international market place. 
I will quickly refer now to tax. We have heard much from the Prime Minister about tax and how it is being reduced. The fact is- I have said this twice before and the Budget Papers show itthat taxation revenue from individuals will rise by 18.2 per cent this year. Let us recall the tax changes that were made at the beginning of 1978. That change to the tax scale meant that middle income to low income earners received substantially lower decreases in taxation than were received by high or very high income earners. The tax changes by the abolition of the tax surcharge which are associated with this Budget, shows that the tax commitment for an income earner with a taxable income of $8,000 in 1978-79 will rise by 28.3 per cent this year. The figures show that for an income earner with a taxable income of $6,000 last year, who is supporting a dependent spouse, his or her tax liability will rise by a mere 1 56 per cent this year. On a taxable income of $10,000 last year, converted under the Budget's own formula this year, tax liability will rise by 1 9 per cent. 
To that we must add the taxation by stealth, the doubling of petrol prices. Every time motorists go to purchase petrol they will recall that almost half of the bill shown on the petrol pump goes straight to the Federal Treasury. According to the figures produced by the National Roads and Motorists Association in June of this year, 42 per cent of the bill goes to the Federal Treasury. That money is not going to conserve fuel in this country. It is not going to provide alternative transport systems. It is going straight into the coffers of this Government to finance its other ventures, ventures like the scandalous extravagance of $40m over the next three years on the purchase and operation of those two flying hotels, the Boeing 707s, so that this Prime Minister can flaunt himself around the world as Australia 's Jimmy Carter. 
There is something obscene about those kinds of priorities and it comes from a Government and a Prime Minister who profess, tongue in cheek, to have an interest and a concern for families in Australia and a concern for people in need. But when the price of petrol goes up Australians are told by those opposite that we have to charge them more, that as a result they will use less fuel. Honourable members opposite know full well that the demand for fuel in this country is highly inelastic. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  was at least honest enough to say: 
But the major complaint of country people is the cost of fuel, and justifiably so. They say that the Government's import parity fuel policy has added a most significant indirect tax to the Government's income armoury which has allowed the Government to reduce the deficit and to hand out some well deserved improvements in the welfare sector. 
He goes on to say: 
. this tax falls disproportionately on country people. They have no alternative transport arrangements. 
That applies to all Australians who use fuel. As I said, the honourable member for Murray was at least honest enough to say, in concluding his remarks on 28 August: 
Due to Government policy- basically, I do not criticise that policy- 
Here he is referring to farmers-  they pay more for distillate. I believe that at some stage we have to recognise this fact 
What a confession. On the one hand he is complaining about the Government's policies and on the other he is saying: 'Oh well, I cannot do very much about this Government's policies'. In earlier speeches in the Budget debate Government supporters have sought to make much of the restoration of the six-monthly pension indexation. Let me put the record straight in respect of six-monthly pension adjustments. This was canvassed around this country in 1971-72 as a policy of the Australian Labor Party by the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam.  He promised that there would be increases in pensions each autumn and spring to take up increases in the cost of living in the preceding six months. That was implemented and carried on. Automatic indexation of pensions was introduced by the Labor Government following a period in which there had been a severe decline in the real value of pensions. 
In the period that Labor was in power, by twice-yearly adjustments pensions rose to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. What did this Government do? It formalised the six-monthly adjustments into a separate law. It formalised indexation, and that is all that it did. Yet it would not do this for 23 years. For 23 years this Government starved the pensioners out. They came in droves to the front of this House to beg for the 50c that the McMahon Government gave them as an increase, and then, when the Government was forced into recognising that pensioners were entitled to justice in the rate of pension, it formalised the procedures of the Labor Government. When the Government abolished the sixmonthly pension adjustment last year it claimed that this was necessary. Previously it had tried to abolish the funeral benefit. Justice has now been restored to pensioners and this Government claims some sort of credit for it. All it has done is correct an injustice which was perpetrated upon the pensioners of this country. 
The other area I want to refer to is family allowances. Family allowances are supported by members on both sides of this chamber. Along with family allowances came the abolition of tax deductible allowances for dependent children. That was the switch. There was no actual increase. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Daily Commercial News  of 30 May 1979 of a claim by  Mr Adolf  Willim, technical services manager of the Swedish B.T. Company, that the adoption of the 4-way European pallet in Australia would result in greater materials handling efficiency and cost savings. 
If so, has the possible use of these pallets been investigated by his Department. 
Is it a fact, as  Mr Willim  asserts, that greater specialisation of machinery is limited by the present Australian 2-way pallets, preventing dramatic cost savings. 
Is the introduction of 4-way pallets feasible. 
If so, what changes to present materials handling equipment and techniques would this entail and what time scale would be involved in the introduction of these pallets. 
Would the introduction of 4-way pallets render any employees redundant. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) How many (a) males, (b) females and (c) persons in total were employed by Australia Post in the Electoral Division of Shortland at (i) 30 June 1 976, (ii) 30 June 1 977, (iii) 30 June 1978 and (iv) 5 June 1979. 
What were the principal divisions and locations of employment within the Electoral Division on the dates indicated in part ( 1 ). 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I rise on a matter of privilege. A few moments ago, when I approached you and asked the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  to try to assist you in the very difficult position this morning, in your presence he clearly said: 'Do you want a punch on the nose if you don't let me speak to the Acting  Speaker  about the weather?'  Mr Acting Speaker,  you heard him quite clearly threaten me with violence. It is a matter of privilege, and I seek your protection. I draw your attention to a passage on page 151 of Erskine May which is titled: 'Molestation of Members on Account of their Conduct in Parliament'. It reads: 
It is a breach of privilege to molest any Member of either House on account of his conduct in Parliament. 
I approached you, sir, in good will and with good intent, and received a threat of bloody violence from the Leader of the House. I ask you to refer the matter to the Privileges Committee. 
With your indulgence,  Mr Acting Speaker,  I agreed to the matter not being proceeded with further because, after the discussion with you, it appeared that there was a misunderstanding or misapprehension by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair).  In good faith and in expectation of an explanation by the Leader of the House and an expression of regret for his actions at the time, I agreed that I would not pursue it further. 1 hope that was the intent of the remarks he just made. I made my response in good faith. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
Did the duty payable on some brands of imported galvanised housing tiles rise by 14 per cent from 17 August 1978; if so: (a) what led to this action by the Government; and ( b ) which brands of imported tiles are: (i) subject to the duty increase; and (ii) unaffected. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 21 February1979: 
) Has his attention been drawn to conditions of tender for the supply of floor tiles for the flight catering centre, TAA, Brisbane. 
Were tenders called on 24 February 1978 and closed on 7 March 1978. 
Was advice given to prospective tenderers that TAA would be itself tendering for the supply of the floor tiles. 
Is there any evidence to suggest that TAA had access to competitive tenders. 
Was provision made in the tender for preference to Australian manufacture. 
Why was it necessary for TAA officers to visit the United States in connection with the supply of the tiles. 
Was consideration given to a similar visit to Japan; if not, why not. 
Is it a fact that the description in the tender documents of the rejected Nittai tile was incorrect and that the description was in fact the house number of a Melbourne title merchant. 
Did TAA tender for the supply of both the United States Olean tiles and the Japanese Nittai tiles. 
Is there any evidence that it was intended that TAA would supply the tiles and that the calling of tenders was a device to give a semblance of respectability to that procedure. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) Has a contract been granted to the firm Transwest Air Charter to provide coastal surveillance services. 
If so, (a) what are the terms of the contract, (b) what section of the Australian coastline is to be kept under surveillance by the firm and (c) what is the duration of the contract. 
Who were the proprietors of the firm and what was their nationality as at 1 July 1978 and 28 February 1979. 
Was the firm advised at any time by his Department or associates that it should acquire an Australian partner. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1 979: 
What expenditure was incurred by the Australian National Railways Commission on the operation of the North Australia railway for (a) general maintenance and (b) rehabilitation of rail tracks, bridges, and facilities during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii 1978-79. 
How many persons were engaged on duties associated with North Australia railway activities during (a) 1976-77, (b) 1977-78 and (c) 1978-79. 
How many persons are currently employed by North Australia railway and what are their specific duties. 
What preparations would be necessary to enable North Australia railways to recommence freight operations and what dme period would be required for those preparations. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Newcastle Morning Herald  of 23 April 1979 entitled 'TAA sale under review: Robinson'; if so, is he now able to say whether the sale of (a) TAA and (b) other statutory authorities would result in a lessening demand on Government spending. 
What action has he taken to obtain a copy of the article. 
If the position is not as stated in the article when will he take advantage of the forms of the House of disclaim the substance of the articles. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports of an electronic device known as a Kilo-King to be marketed in South Africa with the aim of reducing that country's demand for automotive fuels. 
If so, (a) what is the method of operation of the device, (b) what are the alterations/additions necessary to a vehicle to be fitted with the device and, (c) what is the cost of (i) the device itself and (ii) fitting the device to a vehicle. 
Is the introduction of this device into Australia a possibility, now or in the reasonably near future. 
-The Opposition welcomes the statement just made by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom).  I am responding to the Minister's statement in the absence of my colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  because he is attending a very important conference at Wagga Wagga today. As I said, the Opposition welcomes the statement but its preparation has taken two and a half years. It is 2 te years since the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation was tabled in the Parliament. In essence the Government's response to the Committee's recommendations has been flimsy and deplorable. This nation has a serious problem. Clearly environmental responsibility has been the unwanted child of this Government. Honourable members will recall that with the change of Government in 1975 the environment ministry was abolished by the Fraser Government. It was absorbed into the odds and sods department, namely, the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. Environment was downgraded further still by later becoming a division of the Department of Science. Now it comes within the Department of Science and the Environment. Let us be clear where this Government stands in relation to environment matters. Its priorities in that regard are very low indeed. 
Environmental management and the impact of off-road vehicles on the Australian continent are very serious problems. They are matters which create problems for the environment itself. The disturbance created by the use of off-road vehicles is a problem to communities. In this regard I refer to an article relating to the use of off-road vehicles published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  as far back as April 1976. The article outlines the basic conflict between the use of off-road vehicles and the preservation of the environment and environmental qualities in urban areas. The article states: 
The root problem is that the type of use desired by ORV recreationists- challenging terrain- is in direct conflict with the soil conservation techniques that have been developed over the years. Despite their claims, the ORV enthusiasts have not succeeded in rewriting these rules in the way that nature understands. The effects of soil loss are, in terms of our lifetimes, permanent and negative. 
That is the basic conflict because these vehicles are damaging and they are even more damaging when they are not used in a responsible way. We should note that in many areas of Australia there is intense public opposition to the activities of irresponsible off-road vehicle users. Let me make it quite clear that my criticism is directed to the irresponsible use of off-road vehicles. I instance a case in the Newcastle area only a matter of months ago where public reaction against the use of some of these vehicles was so strong that wires were strung across bush tracks used by trail bike riders, obviously in an attempt to decapitate a trail bike rider who came along. Fortunately the wire was discovered before a fatality occurred. That indicates the intensity of public reaction to the activities of some of these off-road vehicle users. 
It is also rather a sad reflection on governments in Australia generally that State governments have refused consistently to pick up the responsibility for setting aside areas for use exclusively by off-road vehicle enthusiasts. An off-road vehicle can be a work vehicle, as is used by departments or as is used by land users, or it can be a recreational vehicle, as is used by thousands upon thousands of Australians. There are organised clubs or groups which do have sound principles and regimes to follow as to where they use their vehicles and how they use their vehicles, and which do have regard to the noise problem that they create. But it is clear from the Minister's statement that to date there has been insufficient evaluation by governments of the suitability of areas that should be set aside for off-road vehicle use. 
The use of these vehicles has several aspects. First, there is the damage to the environment itself- the damage to ground vegetation and to beach and foreshore areas, the destruction of wilderness areas and reserves, and the erosion problem overall in all those cases. Then there is the noise problem. This is much more a problem in urban and outer urban areas. I acknowledge the problem that it creates to wildlife, but I want to deal more specifically with the problem for urban and outer urban areas. There are cases of people virtually being driven out of their homes by the high pitched whine and noise of these vehicles because they are operated without silencers or are used irresponsibly by people without regard to the disturbance they are creating. Then there is the danger to the users themselves. There are regular instances of vehicles overturning, of accidents and of users being killed because of poor operation of the trail bike, the sand dune buggy or the beach buggy, whatever was being used. But added to that is the public danger of these vehicles careering along beaches. So there is the noise, the damage, the despoilation and, as I said before, the danger to the people who are using the beaches for swimming, for sunbaking or just for quite walks. This report from the Government does not really face up to those problems. However, it does admit that they are problems. 
I find it rather regrettable that six of the 15 recommendations put forward in the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation- a report that took some 18 months to bring down, a report that took a great deal of effort by the Committee's members, together with submissions from any organisations- did not even rate a mention in the Minister's response. A key recommendation of the Committee was recommendation No. 5, which states: specific legislation should be introduced in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory as soon as possible and should cover the following points: registration of vehicles for recreation use; display of registration plates; third party insurance of these vehicles; age/power limits as in Victorian legislation; compliance with ADR28 on noise levels; provision of areas specifically intended for ORV use; prohibition of the use of vehicles off road except in areas specifically set aside for off-road use. 
The last item does not even rate a mention in the Minister's response. Yet that is an area- this is still the case in the Australian Capital Territory and it was the case in the Northern Territory- in which this Government could have acted in the past 21/2 years. But it has obviously decided not to act. 
Let us turn to recommendation No. 7, which reads: the Commonwealth Government encourage research to be undertaken on the carrying capacity of various ecosystems. 
A key part of the evaluation of the measures that need to be taken to maintain the environment and thereby make the use of these vehicles compatible with the management and preservation of the environment does not rate a mention by the Government. Recommendation No. 8 reads: the Commonwealth Government sympathetically consider request from non-government bodies for financial assistance for this type of research. 
Once again there is not a mention of this in the Minister's response because it is not a financial priority. I do not think that it even rates with the moral priorities. Recommendation No. 9 reads: the import of over-snow vehicles for recreational purposes be prohibited. 
The Government's response to that has been to say :  ' We shouldn 't use our import powers to control the entry of these vehicles. Let's wait until after they get here and leave it to somebody else to sort it out'. That is exactly what the Government has done and that is exactly how this problem has arisen over the years. It is a confession of failure. 
It is not a misinterpretation, as the Minister interjects. I will read his words to him. He said:  the importation of over-snow recreation vehicles be prohibited and that an environmental impact assessment should be carried out before any new type of off-road recreational vehicle was imported. 
Now that is all off-road recreation vehicles, not just over-snow recreation vehicles. As the Minister said in his speech, the Government considers that legislation for controls on use after entry into Australia would be more effective than import restrictions. That is a confession of failure. It is a refusal to face up to what I have said is a very serious problem. In effect the Government is passing the buck down the line to State governments and further down the line to local government, and local government receives the major impact of complaints. There is intense public opposition to the way in which some of these vehicles are being used and local government, least of all, has the powers to control and regulate this problem. It is the Government's refusal to face up to that that is at the core of this problem. 
Recommendation No. 10 reads: rehabilitation of tracks no longer in use should be undertaken by the company, government department or person responsible for creating the tracks. 
That is a non-defence area. The Minister's statement referred to activities by the Department of Defence in respect of areas under its control. We welcome that. But the Minister makes no reference to other areas of land under the control of non-defence departments of government. There the Government should have acted, but it has not acted. Recommendation No. 13 reads: further research be done by the Commonwealth Department of Transport with a view to decreasing the maximum noise limits imposed on motor bikes under ADR 28. 
This is the important problem that I referred to earlier in my remarks. That is where the greatest upset and disturbance are created, particularly for aged people in urban and outer urban areas. People have been forced to sell up their homes and get away from the constant noise created by the use of these vehicles travelling around urban streets. Recommendation No. 14 reads: responsible authorities require proprietors of ORV parks to implement good conservation programs. 
No mention at all was made of this in the Minister's speech. Again, it could have been part of the public relations exercise; it could have been included in the code that has been developed; it could have been an exercise that could have been readily carried out by the Federal Government if it had had the desire. 
I turn back to recommendation No. 4 which reads: the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development - 
That was the name of the portfolio in earlier days- request the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers to develop national guidelines for legislation and management policy regarding off-road vehicles. 
The Minister has referred to that in his statement. But, regrettably, all he has said was: 'That matter has been taken up with the State conservation Ministers'. But the Government has had  21/2  years in which to take it up and to consider it? 
Yes, I confess that it is, for this Government. The Committee of the House and the Parliament are entitled to be told what progress has been made in the 21/2 years. Are we to be told after another 21/2 years: 'We are sorry that after five years we have not been able to achieve anything'? In essence, the way in which the Minister has responded to that recommendation has been simply to say: 'We have taken it up with the State Conservation Ministers and it is under discussion, but we cannot tell you anything about it'. That indicates the lack of concern by the Government for this very important problem. 
On behalf of the Opposition, I thank the members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation who participated in the inquiry. They will be sorry to see that the Government has not given the Committee's report any serious consideration and has not taken the action that it should have taken. I thank also those people who made submissions to the Committee. At the same time let me emphasise that the remarks I have made about much of the damage caused by off-road vehicles is directed to the irresponsible users of those vehicles. If the people who are participating in the organised use of off-road vehicles continue on those organised lines, in the absence of any firm action by this Government the community itself can try to do something to solve the problem. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chapman)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) To which persons was the payment of financial assistance authorised under Sections141Aor 141B of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in the period 1 976- 1 978. 
What was the amount paid to each of these persons. 
Of which organisation was each of these persons a member. 
Who were the (a) counsel; and (b) solicitors acting on behalf of each of these persons in the proceedings in question. 
-The Opposition has great pleasure in supporting the motion before the chamber. The standard of services at Coolangatta Airport is deplorable. The open air collection of luggage, the open air assembly of passengers, the exposure to all elements and the general congestion and total lack of security are most undesirable. It is to be hoped that this recommendation from the Committee will result in a quick assessment of the needs at that airport and some early remedial action to overcome the problems there. 
Because of the essential nature of this airport, because of its location in respect to the tourist industry of Australia's east coast, the Opposition wants to see services there approved as soon as possible. As I said, it is essential to providing the kind of infrastructure and service we need to take advantage of the great tourist potential that exists on the eastern seaboard of Australia. The Opposition welcomes the motion and supports it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Opposition welcomes and supports this motion. The recommendation of the Public Works Committee is an appropriate one. I think we all recognise the importance of the nature of the facility to be constructed. We of the Opposition hope that in the national interest the actual construction work will be expedited. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I do not think anybody with any sense of reason and competence takes much notice of what the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  says. I think it is best left at that. He is an embarrassment to his own party, to the Government parties and an embarrassment to his electorate. What he fails to recall in the novel history lesson which he gave to this Parliament is that for 90 per cent of the time since World War II his colleagues have been in control of the affairs of this country. Whatever the ailments and difficulties this country faces, they are a direct result of that. Let met just say that it was those conservatives in that period who reduced pensioners to penury, to poverty. It was the Whitlam Government that introduced six-monthly pension adjustments and did away with pensioners coming down here in droves and begging on the steps of Parliament House. Those conservatives put this country in hock to the tune of $5, 109m which is costing the taxpayers of this country something like $ 1m per day in interest for nought. 
I now want to turn to the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition and particularly to paragraph ( 9 ) which reads:  intensifies the lack of credibility of the Prime Minister and his government and adds to their long list of broken promises. 
I want to deal specifically with the part of the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  immediately after the election in 1975 when he said: 
Our wish and our obligation - 
I underline obligation-  is to serve all the people in co-operation and understanding . . . 
We commit ourselves to integrity in government of the kind that Australia has a right to expect. 
Australia is entitled to a much higher standard of integrity in government than what we have witnessed in this place since 1975. He went on to say: 
We . . . commit ourselves to . . . tolerance between those who posses differences of attitude and mind. 
For 'tolerance' we have seen divisiveness, confrontation, denigration of the unempoyed youth and denigration of trade unions and employees. I want to refer specifically to the treatment that has been meted out by this conservative Government to a very fine, prominent, well-respected Australian of Italian descent, a man who has been a resident of this country for 30 years, who is well regarded and a successful businessman. I refer to  Mr James  Bayutti, A.M. He was  President  of the Apia club. He organised one of the first, and still the best, soccer teams in Sydney. He was the first to organise ethnic radio in New South Wales. He was  President  of the ItalianAustralian Association. He was organiser at the Friuli appeal. He has an excellent and respectable business record and has assisted in the construction and development of this country. He was appointed to the Board of Qantas Airways Ltd by the Government of the day on 1 October 1974. The appointment was for five years. I have no doubt that he participated fully and effectively in his duties as a director. I have no doubt that he is a prodigous worker in the interests of Qantas and Australia. There is no doubt that he was a most useful and effective member on the Board, who brought great benefits to Australia and Qantas. Let me say that the 700,000 Australians of Italian descent derived pride and pleasure from the fact that one of their number had been recognised for high public office. Yet he has been unceremoniously dumped by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  from the Board of Qantas. 
Let us examine the manner of the dumping, which can only be described as a crude, rude snub to those 700,000 Australians of Italian descent whom I have mentioned. In the late afternoon of Tuesday, 25 September,  Mr Bayutti  was handed by personal delivery a letter from the Minister for Transport advising him that his directorship would terminate on Sunday, 30 September. The letter also contained, surprisingly, an apology for the government's failure to conclude an agreement for cheaper air fares to Italy. There was no explanation for the termination of his directorship and no explanation of the government's failure to re-appoint him. There was no criticism of his performance, just a blunt notice of non-re-appointment. I ask why? What were the Government's reasons? The obvious inferences are incompetence, in the absence of any explanation; the fact that he was a Labor Government appointment; and the fact that the Italian Government had not met the demands of this Government in relation to cheaper air fares. 
I put it to the chamber that this is a serious and disgraceful affair and that the public is entitled to know just what is going on. Is it a vendetta against Labor appointees to public office? Is it a further discrimination against people of Italian descent now resident in this country? Is it a reaction against a denial of cheaper air fares to Australia, because the Italian Government has not been prepared to accept what is pushed at it by this Government? I believe that all of these things are reasons. Let me say that the Labor Party, when in government, re-appointed Qantas Board members who had been appointees of former conservative governments. On 21 July 1975 the Labor Government reappointed  Sir Kenneth  Humphreys for a further five years. On 1 July 1973, the Labor Government re-appointed  Mr Law-Smith  for a further three years. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made great play of Cabinet consideration of appointments to public office. This raises the question, the very pertinent question: Did Cabinet consider  Mr Bayutti  's re-appointment to the Qantas Board? Did Cabinet reject him? If not, why not? Why did not Cabinet consider him? If Cabinet did consider him, why has he been so unceremoniously dumped from the Board? Let me repeat my earlier comments with respect to  Mr Bayutti.  He is a respected, effective, prodigious worker for Qantas and for Australia. We on this side of the chamber believe that he should be re-appointed to the Board of Qantas. 
Let us contrast the treatment of  Mr Bayutti  with that accorded to the National Country Party confidante and activist  Mr Harry  M. Miller. He was not snubbed, sacked or fired, despite the Computicket scandal. It was only after the crescendo of public outrage following the report of the liquidator of the Computicket organisation,  Mr Pegler,  that  Mr Miller  tendered his resignation from the Board of Qantas and the Meat and Livestock Corporation. Both organisationsthis is very important- are responsible to National Country Party Ministers. On 15 March the Opposition called for  Mr Miller's  suspension from the Qantas Board. In the last paragraph of my statement I said that  Mr Pegler,  the liquidator for Computicket, said that he was unable to comprehend any justification for  Mr Miller,  as executive  chairman,  allowing the company to operate while losing a quarter of a million dollars a month. On that day  Mr Miller  was dismissed as special adviser to the Federal Government on the 1988 Bicentennial Celebrations Committee by the Liberal Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  following the laying of charges against  Mr Miller. 
On 16 March, the former Minister for Primary Industry, the former National Country Party Minister, released a Press statement in Canberra announcing  Mr Miller's  resignation from the Board of Qantas and the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. In that statement he said: 

 Mr Harry M. Miller today sent telexes to  Mr Peter  Nixon and myself - meaning the Minister- concerning his directorship of Qantas and membership of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. 
He has advised that he will be writing to offer his resignation from these two positions in view of charges laid against him. 
I ask: Where is the letter? When was the letter written? When, in fact, did  Mr Miller  terminate his services with the Qantas board? The former 
Minister for Primary Industry went on to say in respect of  Mr Miller: 
His participation in Qantas has similarly been very much in the interests of that Company and the Australian community. 
He finished with these words: 
In tendering his resignation  Mr Miller  has acted in the only way possible in the circumstances and it is with regret that his offer has been accepted. 
The compliments paid to  Mr Miller  are in dramatic contrast to the treatment accorded to  Mr Bayutti  who, for all intents and purposes, has been sacked. Again I ask: Why? Let me reiterate that  Mr Bayutti  and the 700,000 Australians of Italian descent have been demeaned and discriminated against by the treatment being accorded to  Mr Bayutti.  I repeat my earlier question: When was  Mr Miller's  letter of resignation written? When was it received? When did it become operative? 
I want to refer to a third member of the Qantas board who also is facing the same conditions of termination of membership of the Board as  Mr Bayutti.  I refer to  Mr C.  J. Smith, the Regional Director of the Department of Transport in Victoria. He also was a well regarded and effective member of the Qantas Board.  His  services also are being terminated. Again I ask: Did Cabinet consider this? Did Cabinet make a decision not to reappoint him? If so, what were the reasons? Why then has not  Mr Miller's  vacancy on the Board been filled? That is the important question I was leading to. We have a board of nine directors.  Mr Miller  resigned or intended to resign on 16 March. That was the impression given to the public. I do not believe that that is what happened. I do not believe that  Mr Miller  terminated his services with Qantas on 16 March. It is up to the Government now to table the documents involved and advise the community of what actually happened. But why has not  Mr Miller's  position been filled? Why now are there two more vacancies on the Qantas Board? Three out of nine positions will be vacant as from next Sunday. We have not heard a word from the Government. We have not heard a word from the responsible Minister. 
Qantas is a business which had a turnover last year of $649m and which has assets of $647m. It is an organisation of which Australians are proud and which ably represents Australia across the globe. Is the Board of Qantas to be stacked with the Prime Minister's puppets? Will there be more jobs for the boys? The explicit undertaking of the Prime Minister, which he gave over and over in the early stages of the 1975 election campaign, was that that would not happen. Who will be the new appointees to Qantas? More of the Prime Minister's staff? More of the puppets of the Prime Minister and those who sit opposite? Is it a case of out with the honourable, responsible and effective Board members such as  Mr Bayutti,  one of 700,000 Australians of Italian descent? There was no explanation about  Mr Bayutti  's behaviour. There as been no consideration for the role that Italians play in this community.  His  termination quite clearly was a deliberate slight on Australians of Italian descent in this country. 
In the last minute I have I want to say something about  Mr Law-Smith  of Trans-Australia Airlines. He is known to be a close and intimate associate of the Prime Minister. He is the ViceChairman of Qantas. On 9 August he was appointed  Chairman  of Trans- Australia Airlines. He was 65 years of age on 9 July 1979. He could not be appointed to the Australian National Railways Commission and he could not be the Federal Police Commissioner who must retire at 60. He could not be a member of the Australian Shipping Commission who must retire at 65. But  Mr Law-Smith,  the Prime Minister's confidant and friend, was appointed  Chairman  of TAA one month after he turned 65 years of age. Where opposite are the men of honour? Where is the integrity about which the Prime Minister lampooned? That is the only way to describe it. He really lampooned about integrity in the election campaign in 1 975. He said he would bring in a standard of integrity acceptable to Australians. I conclude by saying that the standard of integrity that this Government has brought to this country is base. It has debased the Parliament. It has a responsibility to smarten up, as  Mr Fraser  said he would in Perth a few weeks ago - 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1 979: 
1 ) What are the names and addresses of the organisations or individuals who have expressed an interest in the purchase, transfer or amalgamation of Trans-Australia Airlines referred to in his answer to question No. 3737  (Hansard,  29 August 1979, page 776). 
) In each case, when was the interest expressed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
1 ) Did he delay the presentation of the Annual Report of the airline activities of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd for 1977-78 for over 6 months so as to present it together with the Annual Report of Trans-Australia Airlines. 
If so, was this a departure from established practice and what were his reasons for doing so. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. In view of the Bureau of Transport Economies' recent finding that in the four years from 1975 to 1979 Commonwealth expenditure on road construction and maintenance expressed in real terms declined by 6 per cent, that expenditure by States on road construction and maintenance increased by 39 per cent and that expenditure by local governments on road construction and maintenance in the same four years increased by 7 per cent, will the Minister now undertake to ensure that a fairer share of the funds being stripped from motorists will be returned to the States and to local government to provide increased employment opportunities and improved road standards? 
-The Opposition is not opposing the amendments, but I make a point very clear to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  Contrary to the usual traditions and courtesies of the House, no notice was given of the amendments last night when this was being debated in the Senate. My colleague in that place,  Senator Gietzelt,  made reference to that fact.  Senator Chaney,  representing the Minister, acknowledged that he apparently only a short time before had received notice of the amendments. There has been a good attitude from the chamber in its approach to this legislation. I would have liked to have seen it concluded in that way because - 
I accept the Minister's statement. This is a complex piece of legislation. If there is a joint approach to this legislation the nation will be served better. As the Minister pointed out, the first three amendments seek to correct the drafting errors that did occur. I can understand that because of the magnitude and complexity of the Bill. The fourth amendment, relating to a decision made by the Marine and Ports Council subsequent to the drafting of the Bill, has improved the legislation. As I understand the Minister's remarks and the advice that I have had, the Bill will be the better for this fourth amendment. 
Throughout the Bill a great deal of reference is made to francs and the way in which this affects the limit of liability of shipowners. The amendment deals with how one defines the limit of liability. I thought that it would be of use to the Committee and certainly to any one reading  Hansard  to have some understanding of what a franc is. I am referring to the definition referred to in that amendment, Article III of the International Convention relating to the limitation of the liability of owners of sea-going ships. Item 6 of Article III reads: 
The franc mentioned in this Article shall be deemed to refer to a unit consisting of sixty-five and a half milligrams of gold of millesimal fineness 900. The amounts mentioned in paragraph ( I ) of this Article shall be converted into the national currency of the State in which limitation is sought on the basis of the value of that currency by reference to the defined above at the date on which the shipowner shall have constituted the limitation fund, made the payment, or given a guarantee which under the law of that State is equivalent to such payment. 
It makes it a little easier to understand the definitions that arise. The amendment then has two effects. Firstly, the gazettal will make the uniform shipping laws code more readily accessible for perusal or for use in legal proceedings. Secondly, as I understand, it will simplify State complementary legislation which may refer simply to the  Gazette  notice rather than spell out the provisions of the code. The amendments have been agreed to by a decision made by the Marine and Ports Council of Australia. The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-This Bill amends the principal Act, the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977, to provide for an additional $38m to be paid to the States in 1979-80 for roadworks and increases the minimum quotas to be spent by each of the States from their own resources. Schedules one to 10 of the Bill detail the categories of road works for which the grants are being made to the States in each year. Schedule 11 specifies the minimum amount each State must contribute from its own resources for the same period. Whilst the Opposition does not oppose this Bill, I will move at a later stage an amendment highlighting the massive increase in taxes and excise being ripped off road users by this Government and the low provision for roadworks in1979-80. The Government ignores the vital place the road industry has as a component of the national economy- the ability of road construction and maintenance to provide decentralised employment and to conserve scarce fuel resources. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has claimed that the increase of 7.5 per cent in 1979-80 compared with the amount available to the States in1978-79 will maintain the level of road funds in real terms. This statement is incorrect. The provisions for1978-79 and1979-80 are calculated on the basis of Treasury forecasts of price movements in non-residential building and construction during the coming year. The 1978-79 increase in Australian Government grants was 7 per cent but the inflation rate for that year was 8.8 per cent. This year, according to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  prices are expected to rise by more than 10 per cent, but the inflation adjustment for road grants is to be limited to a rise of 7.5 per cent. The Government's own experts from the Bureau of Transport Economics have reported that over the five-year period 1974-75 to 1978-79, the Australian Government's expenditure on road construction and maintenance fell in real terms by about 6 per cent. This deficiency was offset by an increase in State-sourced expenditure of 39 per cent and by a rise in local government's share of expenditure of 7 per cent. 
In introducing the States Grants (Roads) Bill 1977 to the House, the Minister promised at least to maintain the real value of the $ 1,425m provided for in that legislation. This clearly he has failed to do. The promise of indexation has turned out to be a smokescreen to absolve the Government from responsibility for the real deficiencies in the Australian road system. The States have to some extent succeeded in overcoming the low overall level of Australian Government roads grants. In real terms, Commonwealth contributions fell by 1.4 per cent a year from1974-75 while State spending grew by 8.5 per cent per annum and local government spending grew by 1.8 per cent. But the shambles in road funding extends to the system of allocation at the State level. State categories do not always match those of the national Government. Victoria, for example, has 12 categories. Of the $134m supposedly going to local government authorities, the Australian Council of Local Government Associations suspects that between $25m and $30m is 'going missing' somewhere. The situation is further confused in instances in which State statutory authorities such as the Hydro-Electric Commission in Tasmania and the Forestry Commission in Victoria perform substantial roadworks. 
The Minister has refused to approve Victoria's 1979-80 arterial and local road programs until that State puts its house in order. In a news release dated 24 August1979, the Minister stated: 
I have sought further information from the State Minister so that I am able to satisfy myself that Councils will be fairly treated ... I want to ensure that the Local Government authorities get the 7.5 per cent increase consistent with my announcement or know the reason why'. 
A submission by the municipalities within the Victorian Country Roads Board, Geelong Division, stated: 
While a variation between the State and Commonwealth Government road classification system exists, confusion and delay in funding must remain. The present system can only slow the bureaucratic process and must surely be costly. 
These municipalities pointed out the serious anomalies resulting from the tying of the classification system to Australian Bureau of Statistics districts. This approach places the Shire of Werribee, for example, wholly within the Melbourne urban area. Consequently, all its roads are classified urban, whereas this is far from the real situation. Conversely, the city of Colac, a major centre with a population of10,000, has all its roads classed as rural. 
While this system exists, specific requests for a variation in certain areas are meaningless. For example, any statistical data relating to rural local roads would be irrelevant while they include extensive urban road systems where the road construction costs are considerably higher because of the higher design standard required. A complete review of road funding arrangements is urgently needed, together with a thorough examination of the entire category system and the methodology of distribution within those categories. Whilst I have mentioned the assessment of the Australian road system report of the Bureau of Transport Economics, it is essential that national priorities are not lost within the State allocation systems. Finance must reach those projects it is intended for. The States and local government have persistently criticised the announcement of annual funding levels in each year. Consideration, therefore, should be given to the advisability of introducing extended funding periods for roadworks. A system of rolling grants may well be the answer. These could extend over a longer period rather than three years as at present, with mid-term reviews of projects and programs. 
The continuing decline in federal road funds is quite unjustified in the light of the exorbitant sums at present being extracted in fuel excise and levies from the pockets of Australian motorists by the Fraser Government. From 1975-76 to 1978-79, the Australian Government grabbed an extra $ 1,104m in petroleum products excise and the crude oil levy alone from the pockets of road users. This is an increase of 111 per cent on 1975-76 bringing total receipts from those sources to $2, 101m in 1978-79. This year's Budget estimates that the levy and excise will yield $2,979m. This is a further jump of 42 per cent in this year and is equivalent to $430 a licensed driver per annum or, in simpler terms, an equivalent of $8 for an average licensed motor vehicle driver every week. Recent research by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library shows that a Toyota Corolla, a car which is generally regarded as one of the more economical cars, now costs about $17.50 all inclusive to operate over a trip of 100 kilometres. In 1976, only three years ago, the same car would have cost only $13.85 for the same journey. But not all motorists can make do with a Toyota Corolla. If the motorist needs a larger vehicle, a Holden Kingswood for example, to carry his family or to tow a trailer or if his job requires it, he would now pay $22.64 for that 100 kilometre trip. Three years ago all his costs would have added up to only $ 1 8.60. 
The point is that many Australians cannot do without a motor car. In effect, they are locked into the automotive society. A survey by the National Roads and Motorists Association of work travel habits in South Sydney, Botany, Bankstown, Auburn and Warringah released in 
November last year showed how heavily workers rely on cars to reach their jobs. In these five suburbs 82.2 per cent of respondents normally travelled by car to work; 87.9 per cent of them then parked their cars in a company car park. Few of these motorists were irrevocably wedded to the idea of car travel. Some 70 per cent said that they would use public transport if more were available, but they simply had no reasonable alternative. If one counts those who do use public transport, or who cycle to work, one finds that 95 per cent of respondents relied solely on roads to travel to work. 
Those who are frequently the most dependent on the motor car or on road-based public transport are the lower income earners who live in the types of suburbs surveyed by the NRMA. In Botany, craftsmen, tradesmen and unskilled labourers accounted for 45 per cent of those surveyed while only 7 per cent were in managerial positions. In Bankstown, the figures were 46 per cent and 3.3 per cent respectively for each category, with a further 3 1 per cent occupying clerical positions. The figures are broadly similar in the other suburbs studied. Perhaps the most telling evidence is provided by a single sentence in this report which was based on research conducted in the workplace: 
Some companies were unable to distribute all their questionnaires because employees could not read or write English. 
Lately in this House, the Opposition has been attacked by the Government for its stand on the price of motor car travel resulting from the great petrol tax rip-off. Remember that 70 per cent of those questioned by the NRMA who drove cars to work would have changed to public transport if they could. But as  Mr H.  W. Dixon of Adelaide University stated, to the Australian Transport Research Forum in April this year: 
Fixed route public transport can never solve the transport problem in existing cities. It will always be a compromise . . . 
The type of city growth that has lead to this situation was in most part not the work of Labor governments. We have seen conservative governments slash public transport of funds, slash transport planning and research funds, and more lately scrap the Department of Urban and Regional Development at the very time when its existence was of vital importance. 
The Opposition makes no apology for defending in this House the victims, frequently with low incomes, who have no alternative to the car yet who must pay an exorbitant price to use one. In such a situation any claims that the petrol price hike is intended to conserve fuel resources is a farce. It is not so intended. It is nothing but a back door revenue raising measure by a government of economic ignorants which hits out viciously at the defenceless members of society. 
Another group suffering extreme hardship as a result of the Fraser Government's petroleum pricing policies is the truck drivers. I could give no more poignant illustration of their plight, and how it affects us all, than to read from a letter that I received recently from one of my constituents. It reads: 
Dear  Sir. 
Did you know that every week there is an average of 10 trucks involved in accidents on the roads between Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Sydney? Have you asked yourself why? 
When an interstate driver mortgages his house and land to buy a truck and then sees the price of everything needed to run it escalating, he drives himself beyond the normal limit of endurance. He loses concentration, reflexes falter, his eyesight blurs, but the thought of losing his home drives him on. To what? An accident, nervous breakdown, physical exhaustion, mental problems. The list goes on. 
If fuel prices rise, so do air fares, taxi fares, government transport; freight rates? THEY STAY THE SAME. They haven't changed in the last 10 years. Trucks have increased their price at least SO per cent, fuel 300 per cent, tyres 50 per cent, wages 100 per cent, cost of living? 
Just recently we saw a terrible example of the dangers warned of in this letter. On Friday, 14 September, two semi-trailers collided head-on on the Hume Highway near Tarcutta. Then the semi-trailers following swerved to avoid the accident and also collided head-on. Molten metal flared from the burning funeral pyre like lava from a volcano. Only one prime mover was recognisable. Three men were killed and three more were admitted to hospital. 
The potential for such horrifying accidents is constantly with us. The truck driver from whose letter I quoted spends his first week of every month working to pay his loan commitments. Week two earnings go toward payment of maintenance, tyres, and insurance.  His  third week's efforts may be alloted towards his wages and tax. But the fourth week is spent paying that driver's crippling fuel bill, a bill he estimates to have leapt by 300 per cent in 1 0 years. 
I remind the House that from 1975-76 to 1 978-79, the Australian Government grabbed an extra $ 1 , 104m in petroleum excise and the crude oil levy alone from those who must- and I emphasise must- use our roads. Where is this revenue going? It is not going to provide alternative means of transport where it may help solve the problem. It is not going to fund research into alternative means of transport. Nor is it going towards improved roads which can simultaneously boost the economy, provide jobs and conserve fuel resources, and which were used by 95 per cent of workers surveyed by the NRMA as they travelled to work. Commonwealth expenditure on road construction and maintenance has now declined to the equivalent of 24.18 per cent of federal revenue from petroleum excise and the crude oil levy and will further decline to 1 8.33 per cent in 1 979-80. 
The economic incompetence of the Fraser Government is abundantly obvious in its approach to investment in Australia's transport network. Australia's transport routes are the economic arteries of this country. In the year ending 1976, the BTE estimated that almost 79 per cent of freight tonnage moved by road in Australia. Road based passenger transport accounted for 90 per cent of passenger kilometres travelled in the same period. The BTE estimates that over the period of 1974 to 1979, travel on national highways and rural arterial roads increased from 25,363 million to 32,482 million vehicle kilometres, a rate of growth of 8.6 per cent per annum. From 1 974 to 1 977 travel on urban arterial roads increased by about 8.4 per cent to 52,595 million passenger kilometres or 48 per cent of all road travel in Australia. 
Australia's road system is, then, of paramount importance to the national economy. It is the clear responsibility of the national Government to oversee the proper maintenance of this national asset. And yet, equipped with its Premiers' plan' mentality, obsessed with short term cost cutting no matter what the long term cost, the Fraser Government is again jeopardising our economic future by neglecting essential investment, as did conservative governments during the Great Depression of the 1 930s. This Government's economic thinking is crippled by shortsightedness. A recent British White Paper entitled 'A Policy for Roads', states: 
Better roads can improve the efficiency of transport and through it, of industry and commerce . . . There can be no doubt about transport's importance to the economy. 
In Australia, however, instead of adopting the methods used by a housewife in the management of her budget, this Government would be well advised to do what business does- plan investments for the future and pursue investments which will return the greatest benefit, in this case to the entire nation. The BTE shows that the pursuance of its warranted program of rural arterial roads construction would yield benefits between two and three times the cost. These benefits include not only the saving of human lives and monetary savings in vehicle operating costs, accident costs, time and road maintenance but also less tangible gains such as reduced dust, delays and losses in production. Any investment yielding a return two or three times its cost is a good one, especially if it is to the lasting benefit of the Australian people. At the annual conference of the New South Wales Shires Association in June this year the NRMA said: 
Because of the dispersal of its major towns and cities over very wide distances and its greater dependence on road transport as a result, Australia could be expected to be one of the world leaders in the development of its road transport facilities. 
But as a nation, we have not faced up squarely to the need to develop an efficient road system to cater for our growing needs. 
A good example of the inactivity of the present Government is the slow progress made in the construction of a coastal route between Marlborough and Sarina in Queensland.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you may have some knowledge of that. This link is a declared national highway, and thus the full responsibility of the Australian Government. It was designed to avoid the old inadequate inland route. It was the Australian Labor Party Government that, after 23 years of conservative neglect, accepted full responsibility for national highways. It was the Labor Government that took action to construct the coastal route between Marlborough and Sarina. But what has happened since 1975? In 1977, the BTE report said that 93 per cent of this segment's route was deficient in width whilst only 15 kilometres of the total length of 214 kilometres had been sealed. Today, much still remains to be done before the coastal route reaches a satisfactory standard. Much of the bridgework is incomplete, as is the sealing of the pavement. My colleague the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  will report in more detail at a later stage on the inactivity of the present conservative government in this area. 
Another victim of federal financial restraint is trunk road 51 between the Australian Capital Territory and the New South Wales south coast at Bateman 's Bay. Like the northern route out of Brisbane it is an important tourist road in addition to providing access for business and commerce. Each weekend it receives a heavy battering as Australian Capital Territory residents rush to the holiday resorts on the coast or for a normal weekend's recreation. A considerable number of Australian Capital Territory workers commute to their jobs each weekday via this road. It enjoys, therefore, a somewhat special relationship with the Australian Capital Territory. Again, a recently released survey by the NRMA reveals that the route is generally sub-standard. The pavement is generally below the desirable width, shoulders and pavement edges are regularly in poor condition. Less than one percent of the New South Wales distance is edge marked, despite a British East Sussex Council trial in 1976 which reduced injury crashes and total crashes by 40 per cent to 60 per cent in the first 12 months. Examination of crash statistics for the road shows that the crash and injury rates are generally above the State wide averages whilst the urban crash and injury rates in Queanbeyan are particularly high. Ninety-five per cent of the rural distance consists of only two lanes, and 42 per cent of the rural distance is marked as unsafe for overtaking. Human nature being what it is, drivers are only too likely to take risks and attempt to pass where they ought not to with the predictable results. 
The local authorities responsible for the road, namely, Eurobodalla, Tallaganda and Yarrowlumla shires and the Queanbeyan City Council, are attempting to improve the road within the constraints of finance. In the order of $lm is due to be spent on it in 1 979-80. But as I have already pointed out, the Australian Government is increasingly evading its responsibilities in the roads area. In 1974-75, the Commonwealth was contributing $25 per head of population to New South Wales, the New South Wales Government $30 per head and local government $45 per head. From that base the State's allocation has risen over four years by $ 1 8.68 per capita and the local government allocation by $ 1 1 .28 per capita but the Commonwealth has contributed only $8.93 extra per head in that period. That is less than half of the additional amount found by the State of New South Wales. It is not good enough to say that New South Wales is free to reallocate its priority from this road to that. It has, as do all the other States, innumerable trouble spots. The Mount Ousely coal road, the Hume Highway, the Sydney arterial system, all demand attention. 
Another road which stars frequently in the long running saga of Commonwealth road funding neglect is the ill-fated Stuart Highway. Like the Marlborough-Sarina route it is a classified national highway and, again, is the full responsibility of the Australian Government. Again the initiative was seized by the Labor Government when the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  requested in September 1974 that a study of alternative routes for an improved highway be undertaken. Following this investigation, the present Minister advised that route 3 was to be adopted. On 25 November 1977, the former  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the former Minister for Primary Industry, provided an official statement to the Mayor of Alice Springs,  Mr George  Smith, that if elected to government, the coalition would provide special funds for the construction of the Stuart Highway. He indicated that these funds would be additional to the grant allocations for national highways in South Australia and that they would be specifically earmarked for the Stuart Highway. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the statement that the former Deputy Leader of the Country Party had made to the mayor of Alice Springs on 25 November 1977. At that time he said that if elected to government the coalition would provide special funds for the construction of the Stuart Highway. He indicated that these funds would be additional to the grant allocations for national highways in South Australia and that they would be specifically earmarked for the Stuart Highway. Naturally the question is: What happened to those funds? The answer is: Nothing, because they were never provided, and because the legislation does not provide for specific funds to be earmarked in the way that was indicated by the then Minister for Primary Industry, and his statement has not been supported by the Minister for Transport or by the Government since. It has simply been added to the list of broken promises. 
Not only have no special funds been scheduled into the two States Grants (Roads) Amendment Bills put to this House since route 3 was declared, but South Australia has found its overall level of funding severely cut back. Since 1974-75 South Australia has taken a cut in real terms of $ 10.45m or 37.5 per cent in its total grant. It is quite unreasonable to expect the South Australia Government, irrespective of its political complexion, to step in and to take on the Commonwealth's responsibilities. The deplorable state of the Stuart Highway remains as a glaring reminder of the present Government's incompetence and broken promises, its continuing failure to accept its fair share of responsibility for road construction and maintenance in this nation. The development of adequate transport infrastructure is essential to the health and efficiency of the national economy and thus to the provision of employment for the Australian work force. Road construction and maintenance also has the ability to generate many jobs directly. The Bureau of Transport Economics has calculated that payments to labour, direct and indirect, constitute 64. 1 per cent of total resource costs going to roads. That is to say, 64. 1 per cent of resources committed to roads goes to paying labour working on the road itself and in associated industries. The road construction industry is a major consumer of quarry materials, petroleum products, ready mix concrete, concrete products and metal products. Money spent on roads generates activity in all those industries. As the Geelong area shires pointed out to the BTE in their submission: 
Any increase in funds made available for roadworks will not only improve the road system but will also provide an excellent avenue for the relief of unemployment. Road works are labour intensive with an average of 40 percent in funds- 
Here the councils mean direct payment to workers. Their statement continued:  being spent on employment of labour. The provision of additional funds will therefore serve a twofold purpose . . . 
Earlier I made the point that in certain cases, conventional public transport as we know it cannot hope to fill the gap left by declining availability of motorised transport, and that, like it or not, we are for some years yet committed to a basically automotive society. Research may provide us with an alternative means of propelling our cars and trucks, if that research also is not stifled for lack of funds. But good roads on which to run them will continue to be of high priority. It must be recognised that certain road development schemes not only contribute to the overall well-being of the economy, and promote employment both directly and indirectly, but also have the ability to conserve scarce fuel resources. 
In a draft discussion paper circulated by the New South Wales Urban Transport Study Group entitled 'The Fuel Economy of Light Motor Vehicles in Sydney', factors affecting fuel economy are dealt with in two categories, namely, vehicle characteristics and traffic and road characteristics. Evidence presented under the first heading of 'Vehicle Characteristics' further destroys the Minister's arguments relating to the effect of emission control devices, but that is a story for another day. Average traffic speed of a particular trip or for a particular section of roadway is seen as the single most important traffic variable affecting fuel economy of light motor vehicles. Surveying recent research done in this area, the paper concludes: 
All researchers concluded or assume that the single most important traffic variable for predicting fuel economy or fuel consumption is predominantly low speed urban traffic . . . 
This explains 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the variation in fuel economy attributable to traffic and road characteristics. The paper cites one study which estimates that congestion at below 24 kilometres per hour accounts for 1 5 per cent of present fuel consumption in Sydney hence, the paper states, traffic management schemes such as queue and cruise' have been proposed to reduce fuel consumption and, even more significantly in urban areas, emission of pollution. 
Energy saving improvements such as clearways, left hand turn lanes, computerised traffic signal sychronisation and turning signals in urban areas, the removal of persistent sharp curves and the extension of passing opportunities through the construction of dual carriageways or climbing lanes in rural areas are all projects of relatively small magnitude. Much could be done in this area by an expansion of funding- of the Minor Traffic Engineering and Road Safety Improvements Program. MITERS has been shown by the BTE to be the category whose real funding level since 1974-75 has most significantly fallen short of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads warranted level. Yet the types of works provided for under MITERS have the potential to reduce community costs substantially in terms of travel time, resource use, pollution, death and injury. 
In summary, when we look at the policies of the present Government on roads, they neglect to take up the employment opportunities that expanded road construction and maintenance offer, they often neglect to take up the energy opportunities offered by expanded expenditure on road funding and they neglect to take up the opportunity to improve the level of transport efficiency in this country that would flow from improved and essential road systems. In effect, what is happening is that the motorists of Australia, year by year under this Government, are paying more and getting less in the quantity of road works than can be undertaken from the funds provided by this Government. In conclusion, I move the following amendment which summarises the points I have put: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 
 Whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion thai the level of funds provided in the Bill for road purposes in 1 979-80- 
demonstrates that the Commonwealth's share of expenditure on road construction and maintenance, expressed in real terms, has seriously declined since the Fraser Government came to power and will further decline, whereas Federal revenue from fuel taxes and levies has more than doubled in the same period and will  further  increase; 
ignores the urgent necessity to accelerate road construction and maintenance programs designed to improve the quality of the Australian road system as a vital component of the national economy; 
fails to pursue policies designed to increase employment opportunities, and 
does not develop a responsible transport energy conservation program '. 
I commend the amendment to the House. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
notes that despite repeated assurances to the contrary the Federal Government has failed to conclude a lower air fare agreement with Italy whereas agreements have already been signed with 11 other countries; 
recognises that the unavailability of lower air fares to Italy effectively discriminates against the 700,000 Australians of Italian descent; 
observes that there is widespread discontent in the Italian community as evidenced by a petition signed by tens of thousands of people calling for the early introduction of lower air fares to Italy; 
further notes that no date has been set for the resumption of talks with the Italian government on lower air fares despite Qantas and Alitalia having reached agreement, and 
is of the opinion that the Government should give the utmost priority to the conclusion of a lower air fare agreement with Italy and that provision be made for the special needs of families of Italian origin. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the Melbourne  Age  of 10 September 1979 entitled  Home-made Plane Tragedy. 
If so, how many accidents involving home-made aircraft have been reported to his Department in the last 5 years. 
3 ) How many of the accidents were fatal. 
What specific controls does his Department exercise over home-made aircraft. 
Is there a register of these aircraft in Australia; if not, why not 
Will his Department establish a register. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) How many subsidy grants have been made to organisations in the Electoral Division of Shortland under the Special Youth Employment Training Program in each year since the inception of the Program. 
) What was the name, address and subsidy in each case. 
What were the specific types of training provided in each case. 
How many (a) males and (b) females in the Electoral Division of Shortland gained employment under the Program in each year since its inception. 
How many (a) males and (b) females retained employment with the recipient organisation for a period of longer than one month after the loss of entitlement to Program subsidy. 
What was the total cost of Program subsidy payments in each year since its inception. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, relates to his specific responsibilities for the detection of illegal imports. Does he subscribe to the practice of placing major dependence for the detection of drug runners and smugglers operating to Australia on the services of wholly foreign-owned and controlled companies, particularly where such companies have a veto power over decisions by an Australian subsidiary as prescribed in their articles and memorandum of association? Can the Minister say what level of control over such wholly foreign-owned companies is available to the Australian Government in these circumstances? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) How many (a) males, (b) females and (c) persons in total were employed by Telecom Australia in the Electoral Division of Shortland as at (i) 30 June 1976, (ii) 30 June 1977, (iii) 30 June 1978 and (iv) 7 June 1979. 
What was the employment in each of the divisions of Telecom in the Electoral Division on the same dates. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
How many persons died (a) on Australian aircraft flying over Australian territory, (b) on other aircraft flying over Australian territory and (c) at Australian airports in each of the years ended 31 May (i) 1977 (ii) 1978 and (iii) 1979. 
What method or procedures does his Department use to record such incidents. 
Has his Department completed consideration of a submission made in February 1 979 to him by the Doctors' Reform Society, concerning unsatisfactory medical facilities in aircraft and at airports in Australia. 
If so, what were the results of that consideration. 
) When will he comment publicly on the submission. 
What steps has his Department taken to better assure the safety of Australian passengers in the light of incidents at Sydney Airport in June 1978 and in the light of criticism of present medical facilities made by the Doctors' Reform Society and transport unions. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
Notes that, expressed in real terms, the Commonwealth's share of expenditure on road construction and maintenance has fallen by 6 per cent since 1975. 
Observes that the New South Wales Urban Transport Study Group has determined that 60 to 70 per cent of the variation in fuel economy of light motor vehicles attributable to road and traffic characteristics is caused by low speed urban driving. 
Further notes that Federal revenue from fuel tax and levies is estimated to treble to $2, 979m in 1979-80 compared with 1975-76. 
Is of the opinion that the Government should urgently increase the level of funds available for road construction and maintenance in order to assist in the conservation of scarce liquid fuel resources. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
In what capacity did  Mr Tony  Eggleton attend the Lusaka Conference. 
At whose direction were his services hired. 
What were his specific dunes and movements from the time of his departure from Australia until his return. 
4 ) What were the costs of 
accommodation abroad for  Mr Eggleton, 
travel to and in association with his duties, and 
any other considerations paid to him. 
What were the financial arrangements for the utilisation of  Mr Eggleton  's services and by whom were they authorised. 
Which department is responsible for public expenditure in association with  Mr Eggleton  and what are the divisional and sub-divisional account numbers to which the expenditure was charged. 
Is this the same  Mr Eggleton  who is employed by the Liberal Party of Australia secretariat. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
Now that court proceedings against Keith Compton Gale have been concluded will he give the dates between which  Mr Gale  provided assistance to the Liberal Party in helping to develop its industrial relations policy. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport: Does he support the reappointment of the current chairman of Qantas Airways Ltd? 
-The Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill 1979 is, as outlined by the Minister for Transport  (Mr 
Nixon) in his second reading speech, a machinery Bill to amend the 1952 Act. This Act imposes charges on aircraft for the use of aerodromes, airways facilities, meteorological services and search and rescue services provided by the Commonwealth. Briefly, the purposes of the Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill 1979 are: Firstly, to increase, with effect from 1 December 1979, the rates of air navigation charges payable by the domestic airline operators by 25 per cent. Secondly, to increase by 20 per cent the rates of air navigation charges payable by general aviation operators, effective from a date to be fixed by proclamation. Thirdly, to align the assessment of rates of air navigation charges payable by international charter operators with those payable by international airline operators. Fourthly, to amend the rate of interest payable, in respect of those air navigation charges which are unpaid after 45 days from the date on which they fall due, from 10 per cent per annum to one per cent for each month or part of month of the amount unpaid. Fifthly, to increase the rate of weekly air navigation charges for foreign, private and aerial work aircraft; and, to correct an inequity in relation to the payment of refunds of air navigation charges associated with changes in ownership of aircraft. 
Whilst the Opposition will not be opposing the Bill I will move at a later stage that it be withdrawn and redrafted so as to exclude application of any increases in air navigation charges to general aviation until receipt and consideration of the report of the inquiry into general aviation now under way. This inquiry aims, firstly, to provide a better understanding of the structure, operations and economics of the various sectors of the general aviation industry. Secondly, it aims to provide a better basis for government consideration of the provision of services and airport facilities for general aviation and of regulatory matters. Thirdly, it aims to achieve an appropriate level of recovery of aerodrome and airways facilities' costs attributable to general aviation on a more equitable and efficient basis. Such an inquiry is long overdue, particularly in view of rapidly rising costs in the aviation industry generally in view of the growth in the general aviation industry. An example of how costs are increasing in the aviation industry can be seen from the following figures. In 1972-73 costs of services provided to aviation by the Commonwealth totalled $116m. By 1977-78 costs have reached $229m. In real terms, the increase in costs was 6.3 per cent. During the same period, Federal revenue from aviation rose from $57.6m to $ 139.7m- an increase in real terms of nearly 3 1 per cent. Clearly, there is a need to look into the wide difference between the costs of services provided and the amount of revenue being returned to Government. 
The past decade has seen a boom in the general aviation industry. Because of the extent and growing importance of the industry, the Opposition believes that the current inquiry should be a public inquiry where submissions and evidence can be publicly scrutinised. It is against the public interest for the present inquiry to be private to departmental officers only. For too long decisions affecting all aspects of aviation in this country have been carried out in secret. The people involved in the industry have a right to know how decisions affecting their livelihood are arrived at and users of air services are entitled to have an input into and an examination of the decision-making procedures that determine the charges they must pay. 
Since 1969 the number of flying hours has increased from 1,034,000 to an estimated 1 ,650,000 in 1 978, an increase of some 65 per cent. The number of general aviation aircraft on the register has also grown from just over 4,100 on the register in June 1975 to more than 5,000 today. At the same time, there is a significant over-capacity in the industry aggravated by sideline operators and tax avoidance companies, many of which I understand are owned by medical practitioners. Despite this growth, there is little detailed information on the structure, operations and economics of general aviation in Australia. This lack of information makes it difficult for the Parliament to enable an appropriate level of cost recovery to be ascertained on a basis which is both reasonable and equitable to all sub-sectors of the industry, particularly in respect of operators whose primary activity is the provision of air services. In light of this, the Government's decision to increase air navigation charges for general aviation by 20 per cent is all the more surprising. It smacks of a further grab by a government desperate to extract what it can from the transport sector to fund the Budget deficit, regardless of the long term cost to the Australian economy, the impact on the general aviation industry or the price of air transport services to consumers. This Government must be made to realise that general aviation is an essential part of the national aviation industry, providing a livelihood for a significant part of the population engaged in a wide variety of economic and essential services critical to the development and prosperity of Australia. 
In recent times, few industries have suffered more than general aviation. This year alone has seen a doubling of avgas prices, acute shortages of the fuel and a 2 per cent excise imposed on the import of aircraft and components. Together, these have had a devastating impact on commuter air services, charter operations and agricultural activities and have threatened jobs and living standards, especially in remote areas. Even before the avgas crisis, the general aviation industry was beginning to suffer the effects of the Government's oil import parity pricing policy. Before the introduction of the import parity pricing policy, general aviation operators were paying 19. lc excise on an imperial gallon of aviation fuel- avgas. The introduction of the import parity pricing policy means, in effect, that general aviation operators are being taxed twice on fuel. On top of this, there is considerable doubt in the industry over future fuel prices. Last month, the Melbourne-based commuter airline, Bizjets, after four years of service, cut out flights to the Tasmanian west coast and Smithton because it could not be assured of a regular supply of avgas. The month before, the New South Wales charter operator, Katoomba Air Services Pty Ltd, claimed it was forced out of business, also because of the avgas shortage. No doubt there are many more casualties of the Government's failure to produce an equitable fuel policy and properly to allocate available avgas supplies. 
The general aviation industry is being squeezed to death by a government which has a callous disregard of what is happening. The Government's approach to the whole avgas catastrophe has been extraordinary, to say the least, and a mass of contradictions and deceptions. It has also been party to the exploitation of Australians dependent on the fuel, by international oil companies. Australian avgas users are paying prices three or four times higher than those being paid by the international oil companies which import avgas. Between October last year and June this year, 'spot' prices of avgas to the oil companies rose by roughly 5c to 5 Vic per litre. Yet the increases in Australian prices of avgas approved by the Prices Justification Tribunal have, in some cases, gone above 17c per litre. The Government's only reaction to this problem has been to say to avgas users: Well you must abide by the decision of the umpire'. At a time when Australian general aviation services were being crippled, the Government allowed huge exports of avgas to Fiji and, of all places, the United Arab Emirates. The hike in avgas prices has also jeopardised or destroyed the hopes of many young people looking for a career in aviation. In the past year, the fuel cost associated with the flying hours that trainee pilots must log to reach a basic commercial licence has jumped by a thousand dollars. On top of this, the Government now wants to increase air navigation charges by 20 per cent. 
The Opposition acknowledges the need for a reasonable rate of cost recovery in the aviation industry and is aware of the significant rate of under-recovery, particularly in the general aviation sector. But it is also aware of the need for cost recovery to be achieved on a basis which is equitable and reasonable. The Minister, too, if we can take him at his word, used to believe this. Last November he told a seminar in Sydney: 
In the past, attempts to raise the recovery rate of attributable costs have been on a basis of fixed percentage increase in the rate of air navigation charges for all sectors of the industry. It is recognised that this method of increasing the level of cost recovery can lead to anomalies, particularly in respect of general aviation where air navigation charges are levied by aircraft types and not by the use of facilities provided. 
He went on to say: 
The position is further complicated in that both the number of aircraft operated in the general aviation sector and the level of activity in each sub-sector are increasing in some cases markedly, and at different rates. 
The Minister's assurances that when the cost recovery matters flowing from the general aviation study are being studied, the Government will give consideration to the ability of operators to pay, are unlikely to reassure the industry, given the Government's record on cost recovery. The Minister himself, when in Opposition, promised in 1 975 that he would put a halt to the cost recovery program to assess the criteria on which it had been established. Four years later, the Minister for Transport has brought before us this Bill seeking all-time record increases in air navigation charges. 
The Minister should contain himself. In another speech to this House, on 26 August 1975, the Minister lamented that the user pays principle had almost wrecked the general aviation industry throughout Australia. These were the words of the very same Minister who, in his second reading speech a fortnight ago, said that with the increasing gap between costs and revenue and against the background of our economic structure, the Government had decided that the burden of these costs in the major sectors of operation should be transferred from the general taxpayer to the users of the infrastructure. The Minister further professed concern for the general aviation industry in another speech to this House on 11 November 1974. While the phraseology is a little convoluted, it is verbatim and I ask the House to bear with me as I quote what the Minister said. He said: lt is quite paradoxical that the Government should, when it is talking about the problems of inflation, so increase charges for those services it provided to general aviation, which must then pass on the charges at another point. Of course, the higher cost to general aviation has to be passed on to the consumers. 
The Opposition asks: What has happened to the Minister's pretence of concern for the general aviation industry since 1974? Furthermore, what has happened to his pretence of concern for the consumers of services provided by general aviation since 1974? Certainly this Government did not have the interests of the general aviation industry in mind when it proposed a 20 per cent increase in air navigation charges for general aviation. Certainly the interests of the consumers were not close to its heart when it decided to increase air navigation charges for the domestic airlines by 25 per cent- the biggest increase in history. Nor, it seems, did the Government have in mind the recommendations of its own Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Committee, which concluded last year that, given the experience of cost increases in the air transport industry and the significant degree of under-recovery, the maximum permissible annual increase in air navigation charges should be retained at 1 5 per cent. Despite that very fine, logical background, this Government then proceeded to increase air navigation charges by 25 per cent. 
The two major airlines have, under the twoairline agreement, the right to limit increases in air navigation charges payable to 10 per cent in any year. The Minister has told us that the airlines have magnanimously agreed to accept the 25 per cent increase. We wonder what sort of trade-off was agreed to that they should accept with such alacrity. Perhaps the Minister has agreed to rubber stamp the next air fare increase application, just as he has rubber stamped the seven applications since 1976. The Minister told us in 1974- again when he was in oppositionthat the higher costs to aviation had to be passed on to the consumer. In 1974 air navigation charges were increased by 15 per cent. In 1979-80, when this Government wants to increase air navigation charges for general aviation by 20 per cent and for domestic airlines by 25 per cent, he tells us that the effect on the consumers will be negligible if the airlines care to pass on the increases. 
In reply to a question without notice in this chamber on 22 August this year the Minister dismissed speculation that the -increases in air navigation charges- the increases contained in this 
Bill- would put up the fares from Sydney to Melbourne or from Melbourne to Perth by amounts as high as 10 per cent. The Minister said that he was staggered by such suggestions and then gave examples of what the 25 per cent increase in air navigation charges would mean to the travellers of this country. He told us that air navigation charges were not overtly significant to the total costs of an airline and that they added up to about 5 per cent of these costs. He told us that on the Sydney-Perth route the increase in air navigation charges on a one-way economy fare would be $2.45, that on the Melbourne-Hobart route it would be 60c and that on the CanberraSydney route it would be 33c. Somehow, if the Minister is to be believed, the effect of a 25 per cent increase in air navigation charges in 1979 will be negligible; it will be much less hard on airline travellers than was a 15 per cent increase in 1974 on a considerably lower base. 
The Minister's professed concern for the consumer is admirable, but we have seen very little evidence of it. He showed no concern for airline users during the massive speculation in Ansett Transport Industries shares in recent months. He remained mute, stonily endorsing the share trafficking. The interests of air travellers were totally ignored by this Government during the takeover battle despite the fact that Ansett Transport Industries' shares derive their principal value from its airline's guaranteed half share of capacity under the two-airline policy. Who will meet the enormous profits made by all the principals involved in Ansett share trading? Clearly and inevitably air travellers will face pressure for higher air fares to service the wildly inflated prices paid for Ansett shares. Since April 1976 the major airlines have been granted seven increases resulting in a cumulative increase of 40 per cent. The air navigation regulations empower the Minister for Transport to call for all accounts of the airlines for examination when a fare increase is being sought. 
From information provided to the Parliament by the Minister in answer to a question on notice we can see that, despite the extensive non-airline activities- I emphasise 'non-airline activities'carried out by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett, it appears that the only data examined by the Department of Transport in consideration of increased air fare applications is airline revenue and cost data. The maximum time for consideration of any of the seven applications was 24 days. If we take out the weekends that leaves only 15 or 16 working days. The shortest period was eight days- probably six working days.The assessment was carried out in private by three departmental officers. I put it to the House that, given the complexity of TAA 's and Ansett 's airline and non-airline activities, these officers must be super sleuths. Obviously the non-airline costs of TAA and Ansett were not considered. That is on the parliamentary record. The airlines argue against lowering their fares but we have seen that they are quite capable of doing so if they feel the need. They had no trouble dropping their fares on the Melbourne to north-west Tasmania run to meet competition from a small commuter airline. At the same time they increased fares by 10 per cent for the rest of Australia. If TAA and Ansett can so readily respond to the threat of competition the Government should be moving to create a more competitive and innovative aviation environment. Instead, the Government prefers to prop up the two-airline agreementthat enduring and increasingly irrelevant monument to conservative government and philosophy which has long served the interests of the industry rather than the consumers of airline services. 
The two-airline agreement in its present form has clearly outlived its usefulness. It is the cause of widespread resentment throughout Australia. It severely disadvantages people living outside the more populous eastern States. Constantly rising fares are pricing air travel beyond the reach of many Australians. In Tasmania there are fears that the tourist trade is being placed in jeopardy. Following the latest fare increase in June, for example, the price of flying from Hobart to Melbourne rose from $53.20 to $59.20, an increase of more than 1 1 per cent. The Western Australian Government has complained that the Fraser Government is showing little interest in Western Australia's airline needs. There is an urgent need to look at the formula governing air fares to and from areas away from the more populous south-eastern States to approximate the relationship between operating costs and distance travelled. There is also a need to bring Australians closer together rather than keep them apart through cost structures that serve the interests of the airlines, not those of consumers. 
As I said earlier, aviation decisions have been left to the private club of the industry and departmental bureaucrats for too long. Their deliberations have been shrouded in secrecy to the exclusion of air travel consumers. The airlines, like other major industries, must be called on to justify publicly their costs. There should be a public analysis not only of the basic fare structure but also of each application for a fare increase. These tasks could be undertaken by the Prices Justification Tribunal. Only in this way can the public be assured that fare levels are justified, that fare schedules are equitable and that the twin components of flagfall and distance travelled are given adequate consideration. Unlike the United Kingdom and the United States of America, no formal provision exists for the consumers of air services in this country to participate in aviation decision-making. The formation of bodies such as the Fair Internal Air Fares Campaign in Western Australia indicates the desire of air travellers to have a say in the quality, price and availability of domestic air travel. There is little doubt that many air travellers would prefer lower air fares with fewer amenities as long as the services are safe and convenient. To use an old analogy, if I may put it this way, air travellers in Australia in many cases are being forced to buy fillet steak when they would be quite happy with mince as long as the price was right. 
The Opposition believes that encouragement should be given to the formation of airline user groups to advise government on the interests of passengers and to investigate individual complaints against airline operators. In contrast, the recommendations of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Committee were produced by departmental officers led by a steering committee of senior departmental officers. No one was invited or allowed on that committee to represent the interests of those who are paying the bills- private and business air travellers and air freight forwarders in Australia. The Opposition recognises that there are difficulties in improving the efficiency of our airline services. We acknowledge that domestic airlines have heavier cost burdens to meet than international airlines and that their cost structures are not strictly comparable. However, it is time that the matter was taken out of the too-hard political basket. It is time that the interests of air travellers were given precedence over the interests of airlines and stock exchange speculators. 
The Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Committee concluded that the present domestic air fare structure should be revised. It recommended that the airlines should be encouraged to explore a wider range of fare types. It also concluded that there should be greater exploration of the feasibility of and experimentation with innovative on-demand fares on new types of air services, such as shuttles on selected high density, relatively short haul routes. Furthermore, the Committee noted that there was a lack of the appropriate data required to assess the need for greater passenger welfare generally. 
Although additional costs would be involved in the provision and evaluation of such data, the Committee judged that the potential benefits to consumers would justify the costs. Since the publication of that report we have seen little more than a tinkering with the fare structure. The introduction of Advanced Purchase Excursion fares and super-APEX fares and the extension of stand-by fares, whilst welcome, fails to come to grips with the core problem- the need for a public revision of the basic fare structure as recommended by the Review Committee. On the whole, the new concessional fares in which the Minister for Transport takes such pride are restrictive and discriminatory. They are unavailable during holiday periods when most Australians and families in particular want to travel. The APEX fares are unavailable for 79 days of the year while the super-APEX fares are unavailable for 196 days of the year. Outoftown families cannot afford to wait around airline terminals in the hope that they may get stand-by seats on an aircraft. 
The Parliament is still anticipating the Minister's long awaited statement on domestic aviation which he promised to bring down this session. It is hoped that it will be more adventurous than his approach to the industry so far. If his moves on parallel scheduling- one of the most absurd features of the two-airline agreement and the cause for greatest consumer complaint- are any indication of the changes we can expect, we are in for no surprise. The Minister, of course, has specific power in this area but he seems relucant to use it. He has also allowed an increase in recent years in the frequency of parallel scheduling. Let me emphasise that all airline timetables must be approved by the Minister before they become operative. It is interesting to note that the Minister is not making the decisions about parallel scheduling, as he has the authority to do, but the airlines themselves. 
Recently we had the much heralded decision by Ansett to de-parallel flights on the SydneyCanberra, Canberra-Melbourne routes- hardly a bold start to overcoming a very serious problem. Parallel scheduling is a pervasive feature of the two-airline agreement and its incidence is very high. In October 1977, approximately seven out of eight flights were scheduled in parallel. It is interesting to note, therefore, that between 1972 and 1975, the period of the last Labor Government, the relative incidence of parallel flights decreased to approximately two flights in three. The Opposition again acknowledges that there is no simple solution to the problem of parallel scheduling. In the words of the Domestic 
Air Transport Policy Review Committee, it is a product of the institutional arrangements underlying Australia's two-airline policy. The Committee stated that a government directed selfregulation by the airlines is the best way to deal with the problem of parallel scheduling, but this approach has produced little result so far, and there is no indication that it is likely to do so to any degree in the future. 
As I said earlier, direct responsibility for the incidence of parallel scheduling in Australia lies with the Federal Minister for Transport of the day. All timetable schedules must receive his approval before they become operational. Apart from the period 1972-75, that power has not been exercised to reduce the incidence of parallel scheduling. In fact, as I mentioned earlier, under this Minister for Transport, the incidence of parallel scheduling has increased. Last May, the Federal Opposition called on the Government to give immediate notice of termination of the twoairline agreement. Under the agreement, five years notice must be given by the parties. We have argued that, until notice is given, no realistic steps can be taken to improve significantly the domestic aviation industry. However, the Minister for Transport claims that such a step is unnecessary, that significant changes can be made with the co-operation of the airlines. Again, he acts as the Minister representing the airlines, rather than as the national Minister for Transport. He has repeatedly shown that he is not prepared to stand up to the airlines on any matter and it is unlikely that they will readily relinquish their privileges. 
The airlines have stated on many occasions that they are quite happy with the two-airline agreement, that it is the only viable system for Australia providing the best possible services at the lowest possible prices. We would expect them to say that, but Australians throughout the country can tell them differently. They will tell the airlines that their services are too costly and, in many areas, inconvenient or inadequate. Airline services in Australia could be improved significantly even within the context of the report of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Committee which was described in one newspaper editorial as ' more of the same '. 
Some of the immediate steps that should be taken include greater sharing of routes by the airlines to raise load factors; revenues could be pooled on carefuly selected routes, a practice followed by international airlines for many years; there should be more direct city pair services; consideration should be given to joint investment and use of expensive maintenance and crew training facilities; and wasted Qantas capacity across Australia could be utilised by Ansett and TAA. At present, Qantas operates five Boeing 747 services a week between Sydney, Melbourne and Perth, and vice versa. On an average, the services between the east coast and Perth are less than half full with an average of 1,000 empty seats a week in each direction. In 1976-77 on the Melbourne-Perth run, Qantas had an unutilised seat capacty of 56 per cent. On the Sydney-Perth run, about 55 per cent of the seats were unused. Qantas had indicated that these seats could be sold at almost half the existing fare rates. Last November, I called on the Government to make this unused capacity available to the domestic airlines. Unfortunately, it has not acted, but heightening energy considerations could hasten the utilisation of those seats. 
That more people are using and coming to depend on air transport is evidenced by statistics showing passenger movements throughout Australia. The statistics show that passenger movements have risen from 4.1 million in 1972-73 to 10.5 million for the year ended September 1 979. Much of that has been due to the introduction of new, lower international air fares, but no agreement has yet been signed for lower international air fares with Italy nor, I believe, has any date been set for the resumption of talks with the Italian Government. There are 700,000 Australians of Italian descent in this country, the largest ethnic group in Australia. Yet they are being subjected to this most utterly cavalier treatment by this Government. 
The Minister has given repeated assurances that an agreement providing lower air fares between Australia and Italy would be concluded soon.  His  latest reassurance was at the Appia Club where he said that an agreement would be concluded with Italy by 15 September. It is now November and still there is silence, no agreement, no action and no date set for a resumption of talks with Italy. The Italian community is still waiting, and the Government has lost all credibility with this significant group. The presentation of a petition containing almost 30,000 signatures to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  last week indicates their grave dissatisfaction at what is effectively discrimination against 700,000 Australians of Italian origin. The Government must sign an agreement with Italy as soon as possible and that agreement must take into account the special needs of families of Italian descent. 
Similarly, the Government must reach agreements quickly with other groups in Australia which are being denied the advantages of lower air fares to their countries of origin. The Lebanese community has also made representations to the Government to sign lower air fare agreements. The Government has chosen to ignore the interests of these groups while it sorted out its position with the Association of SouthEast Asian Nations, a position that arose through the ineptitude of the Government in its handling the matter and in implementing its international civil aviation policy. The Opposition is pleased to see that agreement has now been reached with the ASEAN countries and we earnestly hope that positive steps will now be taken to repair the enormous damage done to Australia's standing and reputation among the ASEAN countries. The Government now has no excuse for not expediting agreement with Italy and with other countries of origin of ethnic groups in Australia as a matter of urgency. 
In conclusion, if the Government is genuine in its concern for general aviation, I ask that it heed the Opposition's amendment in the interests of the many Australians who depend on the general aviation industry for their livelihood and for the general wellbeing and viability of the industry. As indicated earlier, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 
Whilst not opposing the Bill the House is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted so as to exclude application of any increases in Air Navigation Charges to general aviation pending receipt and consideration of the recommendations of the current inquiry into general aviation. 
I commend the amendment to the House. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the suggestion contained on page 82 of the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled  The Long Distance Road Haulage Industry  that further research be carried out on the level and pattern of freight rates in the road haulage industry; if so, what action does he propose to take in respect of the suggestion. 
Did the Bureau express doubts about the viability of the research; if so, would these doubts be overcome if analysis of freight rates was made a regular, ongoing procedure. 
Would this information also prove valuable in (a) assessing the road haulage industry and (b) the process of decision making. 
Did he support in the Parliament during April-May 1975 legislation to set up an Interstate Commission; if so, would the task of analysis of road haulage freight rates be suitable for such a commission. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
Who was the recipient and what was the sum of each grant made under the Community Youth Support Scheme in the Electoral Division of Shortland in each year since the Scheme 's inception. 
What was the address of each recipient. 
3 ) For what purpose was each grant made and how many persons were employed in the expenditure of each grant. 
How many (a) males and (b) females who attended activities conducted under each grant gained employment within 3 months as a direct result of those activities. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the nature of the consultancy on oil economics referred to on page 103 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 9 October 1979 (G 40) and what aspects of the subject will be reported on. 
When will the consultancy commence and when is it expected to be completed. 
What were the reasons for his Department commissioning this consultancy. 
Will the results of this consultancy be made public. 
To what specific officers or authorities will the results of the consultancy be directed. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) Where is the wind driven generator referred to in contract NAB2S on page 104 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 9  October 1979 (G40) to be located. 
To what purpose will the power generated by the unit be put. 
By what means is power presently secured at this location. 
Is the installation of the wind generator by the nature of a pilot project; if so, are the results of the installation to be monitored and reported on to him and to other interested persons. 
Is the use of wind generators likely to be extended to additional locations. 
What is the likely magnitude of energy savings and cost savings if the use of wind power is extended. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) Have several instances of an hydraulic pressure line bursting at considerable velocity occurred in the cabin of the Walter ultra large fire tenders. 
If so, were there instances at Darwin, Coolangatta and Hobart and was the hydraulic pressure at the time about 250 p.s.i. 
Did airport fire officers place a ban on the Hobart unit as a result. 
What action has been taken to prevent further bursting of the hydraulic pressure lines. 1 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
What are the projected energy requirements by type and for each mode of transport for each year until 1990. 
What is the comparable information for each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) What aspects of the Australian Design Rules tor automobiles will be investigated under contract C4 89 23 referred to on page 70 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  (G29) of24 July 1979. 
Will the results of this investigation be made available to Parliament; if so, when. 
When is the investigation expected to be completed. 
Will he advise the Parliament of any alterations or amendments to the Design Rules made as a result of this investigation. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
Notes that the spot tonnage rate for sea-freight of coal from Australia to Europe has trebled to approximately $32 per tonne in the past year; 
Observes that Australia is wholly dependent on foreign shipping for transport of its coal exports; 
Further notes that the use of Australian crewed vessels in the coal export trade would provide cheaper, long term stable freight rates, reduce overseas payments for transport invisibles and create new jobs and career opportunities for unemployed Australians; 
Recognises that several Australian companies are desirous of placing ships in the Australian coal export trade within a short period; and 
5 ) Is of the opinion that in the national interest immediate steps should be taken to facilitate the expanded participation of Australian owned or controlled ships manned by Australians in the international shipping trades. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
Did he state on 21 April 1975 that the Opposition would support a Bill to create an Interstate Commission which was intended to be a regulatory body in the field of transport. 
Does he now consider that his support for the Interstate Commission Bill was unjustified: if so, why: if not, when does he intend proclaiming the Interstate Commission Act for which he expressed support in 1975. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
Did he state in Parliament on 21 April 1975 that the Opposition believes that the need exists for a body which will have power to regulate transport in Australia within the limitations provided for in the Constitution. 
Was this statement justifiable on the basis of the information available in 1975. 
If so, was this promise of support based on the need for such a body perceived by the Minister for Transport at the time. 
If so, in what way have circumstances or the Minister's knowledge of transport altered his attitudes since that statement was made. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) What quantity of creamy fudge candy was purchased under contract LP4201 referred to on page 104 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 9 October 1979 (G 40). 
Are similar purchases made regularly; if so, when was the previous purchase made. 
) Who was the previous supplier. 
What quantity was purchased and at what contract price. 
Are allocations of creamy fudge candy made available to Departmental officers; if not, for what purposes is it to be purchased and at what locations will it be used. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1 979: 
1 ) What is the name and designation of the officer of his Department delegated to observe negotiations conducted between the Australian Shippers' Council and the Shipping Conferences. 
Does this officer put the views of the Department to the parties at these negotiations. 
To whom are the reports of the officer made available. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) Did he state to the Australian Road Transport Federation on 17 September 1979 that many persons and organisations in the road transport business were genuinely concerned at the Government's policies in general areas as well as those specifically directed at transport. 
) Is he now able to say which specific policies in general areas he was referring to and which specific transport policies prompted the remark. 
What particular action is he taking to remedy the specific policies causing concern to the road transport industry. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport: Does Qantas Airways Ltd, as Australia's international flag carrier, operate its services and charge fares wholly in accordance with the Government's international aviation policy and recently concluded international airline agreements? Has his attention been drawn to reports of public criticism of Qantas by a Government back bench committee? What action is the Minister taking to refute these attacks on the Government's international aviation policy and the Qantas Chairman; or does his silence to date mean that the international airline agreements concluded this year are not in the national interest and should be altered? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1979: 
1 ) What were the (a) travel costs and (b) car allowance costs related to the collection of departure tax for 1978-79 and what are the estimated costs for 1979-80. 
What was the (a) gross and (b) net collections of the tax during 1978-79 and what are the estimated collections for 1979-80. 
-I seek leave to speak for a few moments. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move:   That this House- 
notes that electrification of Australia's mainline rail system would improve transport efficiency, generate many thousands of new jobs and substantially reduce consumption of imported oil; 
observes that Labor's Sofrerail national electrification investigation recommended the utilisation of a 25 kilovolt alternating current system and the development of identical electric locomotives for the three gauge tracks in Australia; 
further notes that electric traction locomotives require less out of service time, incur less maintenance costs and use less energy than diesel locomotives; 
recognises the support of the various States for the conversion of existing mainline rail systems to coal generated electricity; 
deplores the Government's failure to develop or coordinate a national plan for mainline rail electrification; 
is of the opinion that it is essential to initiate without delay, an economic assessment of the many advantages to be gained from electrifying Australia's mainline rail services. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 3899  (Hansard,  29 and 30 May 1979, page 2627) has his attention been drawn to the reply from the Minister for Transport to question No. 3893 relating to airport security.  (Hansard,  4 June 1979, page 2880). 
Is he now able to say (a) whether the number of Commonwealth Police in service as at (i) 31 March 1979 and (ii) 30 April 1979 was adequate to meet internationally accepted standards of airport security, and (b) what was the (i) establishment and (ii) number of Commonwealth Police in service at each Commonwealth airport for duties associated with airport security as at 31 March 1979 and 30 April 1979. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1 979: 
How many flights have been diverted from Albury Airport to Corowa Airport in the year ended 31 August 1979? 
What were the reasons for each diversion? 
What type of aircraft was diverted on each occasion? 
When did Corowa Airport become part of the aerodrome local ownership scheme? 
What sum has been contributed by ratepayers of Corowa Shire towards the maintenance of Corowa Airport since it became part of the local ownership scheme? 
What expenditure has been incurred by the Federal Government for Corowa Airport under the scheme since its establishment and in each of the last 5 financial years? 
What is the present standard of facilities at Corowa Airport? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
What is the name and location of each airport now under the aerodrome local ownership scheme? 
What sum is to be allocated by the Commonwealth to each airport under the scheme during 1 979-80? 
What sum is to be contributed by each local authority during 1979-80? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 September 1 979: 
What revenue was collected by the Australian Government in each State and Territory and in total in each financial year since 1964-65 from (a) excise duty on petroleum products and (b) the crude oil levy (since its introduction). 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
What were the specific considerations that led to his decision not to re-appoint (a)  Mr Giacomo  Alberto Bayutti and (b)  Mr Christopher  John Smith to the board of Qantas Airways Ltd. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Why has he not taken action to fill the vacancy on the board of Qantas Airways Ltd which arose from the announcement by the then Minister for Primary Industry on 1 6 March 1979 that  Mr Harry  Maurice Miller's resignation had been accepted by the Government. 
When did  Mr Miller's  services as a director of Qantas formally cease. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) What payments have been made to  Mr Harry  Maurice Miller by Qantas Airways Ltd for any purpose since 15 March 1979. 
What was the nature of any benefits, concessions, facilities or assistance that have been made available to  Mr Miller  by Qantas since 15 March 1979. 
What were the relevant dates and value of the items provided. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1) On what date and by what means was he advised of the intention of  Mr Harry  Maurice Miller to resign from the board of Qantas Airways Ltd. 
Did he, on receipt of that advice, make a public statement on the matter; if so, what form did the statement take. 
Did he consult with the then Minister for Primary Industry in relation to the proposed resignation on or prior to 16 March 1979; if so, what form did the consultation take. 
When did he receive formal advice of  Mr Miller's  resignation from Qantas. 
What specific actions did he take subsequent to the receipt of the resignation and on what dates. 
Will he table copies ofthe relevant documents. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the name, type, age and tonnage of each vessel repaired under contract number C2/79/46 referred to on page 78 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 18 September 1979. 
2 ) For what purpose is each vessel used. 
At which port is each vessel usually stationed. 
Were the repairs mentioned of a routine nature; if so, how often are such repairs carried out 
What was the name and address of the successful contractor for this repair work when it was last carried out 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports in the  Daily Commercial News  of 30 May 1979 that the Singapore Marine Department is considering proposals calling for stricter control of ships wishing to register under the Singapore flag. 
Can he say what these changes entail, if so, what are the alterations under consideration by the Singapore Marine Department and what are the comparable regulations operative in Australia. 
Is he able to say why these changes are considered necessary; if so, are they an indication that the existing regulations are deficient or that sub standard vessels have been registered in Singapore. 
In view of re pons that insurance rates for older vessels are to be raised, does this indicate that the age of ships registered in Singapore has caused concern to the authorities and constituted a hazard to those associated with their operation. 
Can he say whether the Singapore Government is to change from the Hague to the Hamburg rules for the carriage of goods. 
In what ways do these 2 systems of rules differ. 
Is it a fact that the Hamburg rules allow more flexibility for shippers; if so, in what respects. 
Do either of these rules systems affect Australian shippers or navigation. 
Is he able to say if the registry conditions operating in Panama, Liberia and Hong Kong are similar to those in Singapore; if so, can he say what action is being taken to change the registry conditions of those countries, if not, in what way do they differ. 
10) What is the extent of operation of Singapore registered vessels in Australian pons and waters. 
Has he made any representations to the Singapore authorities regarding the operations of those vessels and the changes reportedly to be made in that country's registration conditions. 
Are comparable actions to those proposed by the Singaporean Government being undertaken in Australia. 
I move: 
That this House is of the opinion that a select committee should be established to examine the impact of transport costs on: 
the efficient movement of goods and people within Australia; 
the development of Australia 's industries, and 
3 ) Australia 's ability to compete in overseas markets. 
Since I gave notice of this motion on 2 1 February 1978, the pressing need for a thorough public examination of the costs and effectiveness of Australia's transport system had become obvious to the Opposition and to transport authorities  and users but not to the Government. In the 2 1 months since the Opposition's call for a select committee we have seen mounting concern over the state of transport services in and to Australia. Comments contained in an article entitled Transport and Distribution- a matter of deep concern' published by the Australian Industries Development Association in July this year are typical. The Association warned: 
. serious inefficiencies, delays and excessive costs in Australia's transport sector are of great national significance because of its size and importance in our production and consumption. 
The Australian Wool Corporation's 1977-78 annual report estimated that the cost of physical distribution of the Australian wool clip between shearing shed and textile mill to be over $200 m per year of which about half was sea freight. The report stated: 
It would be unrealistic to expect that in present inflationary conditions this amount can be reduced, but the Corporation sees considerable opportunity for reducing the rate of increase. 
The draft report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the iron and steel industry stated that transport costs for both raw materials and finished goods represent approximately 15 per cent of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd steel division's total costs. The division employs road, rail and sea transport with sea transport accounting for just over half of BHP 's total freight costs. The IAC acknowledged the disadvantage suffered by BHP compared with its overseas competitors as a result of transport costs and inefficiencies. The Crawford Study Group on Structural Adjustment concluded that a significant factor in raw material processing is cost of transportation. The issues were acknowledged to be complex and to extend beyond the terms of reference of the study group. 
Amongst those who must use our transport system, the private motorist is only too well aware of the disabilities of that system. The Australian Automobile Association in its submission to the Transport Industries Advisory Council drew attention to the tremendous losses being incurred by the nation as our road systems fail to keep pace with the growth in total vehicle kilometres of travel which has increased at an average rate of 6.7 per cent a year for over a decade. Referring to transport costs, enormous congestion, delays, road quality, related breakdowns and associated wastage the Association emphasised: 
These factors affect costs of all Australian production whether for import competing domestic consumption, or for exports. 
Not only the transport users have expressed concern at the state of Australian transport. At an Australian National Railways Commission locomotive naming ceremony in Adelaide two years ago, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who is now at the table said: 
It is disquieting that representatives of the Road Transport Industry, rail's competitor, are telling me that something must be done to improve our rail system. 
This certainly is disquieting but not surprising. The largest road freight operators also have significant interests in general freight forwarding. They realise that goods must be moved by the most cost efficient and fuel efficient mode. But at present costs and fuel efficiency do not necessarily go hand in hand.  Mr W.  Egan of Mayne Nickless Ltd indicated last year that given a greater use of unit trains and the ability to bypass congested marshalling areas, at least 50 per cent of freight volumes on the east coast would transfer from road to rail.  Mr Lou  Marks, executive director of Brambles Holdings Ltd, gave a similar opinion to the 1978 Transport Outlook Conference. The Australian Chamber of Shipping has pointed out the inconsistences in government policies on land based transport and coastal shipping which the chamber feels are leading to serious modal imbalance. The Australian Shipbuilders Association agreed that due to the present cost structure of the industry, freight was not being carried by the most fuel efficient mode. The ASA's request for an inquiry was contemptuously dismissed by the Minister for Transport. 
Concern has been expressed by leading academics in Australia.  Dr Webb  of the University of New South Wales writing in the July 1978 Bank of New South Wales Review' documented both natural disabilities and self-induced disabilities affecting Australian transport.  Dr Keith  Trace of Monash University recently stated that during the past 30 years the freight transport task, measured by tonnes-kilometres performed, has grown at a significantly more rapid rate than has real gross domestic product. The importance of transport is further illustrated by the Government's own Bureau of Transport Economics, which estimated that the 1 975-76 resource cost of providing domestic freight services, excluding infrastructure, at $6, 866m or about 9.7 per cent of the gross domestic product and the cost, including infrastructure, at $ 1 1 ,360m or about 1 6 per cent of the gross domestic product.  Dr Trace  has calculated that figures for comparable countries are roughly two per cent to three per cent lower. 
The fact is that we lack any systematic overall evaluation of the impact of transport costs on the Australian economy. Abundant information and expertise are available on the subject together with organisations and individuals who would readily give evidence to a parliamentary inquiry into transport services. In addition, there are the Bureau of Transport Economics in the Department of Transport and six State Transport Departments, each with expert advisers. This information should be collected and analysed. There is a need to identify the problems and disabilities and to determine possible solutions to our transport deficiencies. Just as importantly, an allparty parliamentary select committee of inquiry would act as a catalyst for informed public debate on transport matters and, in time, the generation of concensus both inside and outside the Parliament. 
Paragraph ( 1 ) of the motion calls for an examination of the impact of transport costs on the efficient movement of goods and people within Australia.  Dr Webb,  whom I mentioned earlier, argues that the high proportion of gross domestic product devoted to transport and communication costs in Australia is partly explained by such natural disabilities as the vast size of the country, the relatively small and unevenly distributed population and the lack of low cost inland-water transport. It is possible, however, to identify a number of problem areas which affect all of Australia 's internal transport modes. Foremost is the lack of any coherent national transport policy for Australia and the resulting fragmentation of decision-making among one national government and seven States and Territories, each with its own set of transport authorities, bodies and policies. Whilst I acknowledge the difficulties involved, I deplore the approach adopted by the Minister for Transport, whose representative told the Australian Road Transport Federation annual conference in Hong Kong last September: 
The basic fact of the matter is that it is simply impractical for anyone to suggest that the Commonwealth should impose a national transport blue print for land transport in Australia. 
This amounts to an admission of incompetence by the Minister. Certainly the solution is not to impose a blueprint on State and private transport authorities. But national co-ordination there must be. Compare the Minister's defeatist attitude with that of the Australian Automobile Association in its submission to the Transport Industry Advisory Council, in which it stated: 
There can be little doubt that our national transport bill is inflated by some self induced disabilities, the elimination of which would be assisted by the establishment of a national transport strategy. 
Similarly,  Mr B.  Redpath of Mayne Nickless, in expressing sentiments last year on the same subject concluded: 
Perhaps it is that there is no single person or group with the overall understanding and the authority to act 
He was referring to the lack of a national transport plan. The Australian Labor Government attempted to create such a group in the form of the Inter-state Commission, as provided in the Constitution. This body would have the ability properly and responsibly to co-ordinate and oversee transport services. Despite having expressed support for the concept of an interstate commission, the present Minister has failed to proclaim the Inter-State Commission Act or to amended it to his satisfaction. 
The regulation of transport by individual States has contributed to the distortion of the national transport system in favour of parochial State interests and delaying much needed modernisation and reform. Regulation has usually been aimed at protecting State rail systems from road transport competition and in ensuring that goods were moved to that State's capital city irrespective of the impact on national transport costs, industry efficiency, the development of our industries and our ability as a nation to compete in overseas markets. 
Another force which has distorted the development of a  rational and  national transport system is the maze of hidden and explicit subsidies received by various modes. Total price costs to the taxpayer of these subsidies are unknown. The subsidies have two main effects. Firstly, they distort the balance of traffic between different transport modes. Secondly, they may distort the total proportion of national expenditure going to the transport sector. That is not to argue that all subsidies are unjustified. Just as assistance granted to non-transport industries are subject to continual public scrutiny, similarly the purpose of assistance to the transport industry should be explained and the full cost identified. 
The Australian transport system is also plagued by a jungle of varying regulations and laws between States. Road transport particularly suffers as a result. Regrettably, ever since 1949 when conservative governments have held national office in this country they have been unable to raise their time horizons to embrace the long lead-in times that are necessary for major transport investment. 
I have mentioned briefly the problems of the road transport industry. We do not have to go beyond the steps of this building to see evidence of the problems and the chaotic state of the road transport industry. The truckies blockade earlier this year highlighted that chaotic state. Outside the building- he has been there for 16 days- is  Mr Carl  Breen along with some of his colleagues in the industry. They have been seeking to talk with the Minister for Transport, who is sitting at the table, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  No members of the Cabinet have been prepared to go outside to speak with that man, to listen to him and to try to understand his problems. He wrote to the Prime Minister on 1 November and I understand that he has not received a reply. Letters were given to the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport. I seek leave,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  approval was given earlier by the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)-  to incorporate in  Hansard  a copy of  Mr Breen  's letter. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Briefly, the problems in the industry are those of overcapacity and, in human terms, there is enormous plight, a tragic plight, being suffered by owner drivers working in the road transport industry. I do not believe that as a nation and as fellow human beings we can stand by and do nothing about what is happening to those people. The industry itself is calling for some form of regulation. The people in it are suffering tremendously from the heavy impact of fuel costs. The public road users in general are being endangered by truck drivers driving way beyond their normal driving periods because they are battling. They are overloading their vehicles and driving longer hours than they responsibly should, trying to make enough money to meet their expenditure. It is for the Government to do something about it. I can only say that the Minister for Transport is not to be given any regard whatsoever. From what I saw, he played a very shabby role in the truckies blockade. I would have expected him to be seeking some sort of constructive solution to regularising the industry and giving the people in the industry and road users a right to safety, a right to earn a reasonable income and a fair return for a fair day's work. 
I want to move on to a couple of other matters, particularly air transport, which has become a matter of major public interest in recent years. Time does not permit me to deal in detail with all aspects of air services- passenger and freight, both domestic and international. I have referred to those matters in the Parliament over recent weeks. They are subjects of wide public and industry concern, particularly to the tourist and manufacturing industries. They are matters that are appropriate for investigation by the select committee that I have proposed. However, I want to devote a few minutes of my time to one important aspect of aviation services- the provision of safety services at airports for the travelling public. 
Within the aviation industry there is constant criticism of the charges made by governments on air service operators and the quality of services provided by governments to air service operators. In short, how efficient is the provision of services to the industry by the Department of Transport? Are those services sufficient? Is money being well spent and are the services being provided necessary? Most of all, as far as the operators are concerned, is the rate of recovery being sought from the operators and, through them, the users of the service, fair? Again, a committee of the Parliament approaching this problem on an all-party basis in a spirit of consensus could analyse the problem reasonably, impartially and properly. It seems that the Minister for Transport and some others opposite take objection to the suggestion of consensus. I am disappointed. 
The Parliament needs to know what priorities are followed in the provision of safety services at our airports. Yesterday witnessed the second near disaster at Mascot airport in just over two years. It arose from the gross irresponsibility of this Government in refusing to provide funds to ensure public safety at Mascot airport. In 1977, following the oil tanker crash and fire and the occasion on which blazing petrol flowed through the drainage system at Mascot airport from an incident that occurred outside the airport, the Minister's response was: 'It was a unique accident'. In effect, his Government is gambling with the lives of air travellers, visitors and staff at Mascot airport. Yesterday's methylene tanker crash occurred just a few weeks after the second anniversary of the petrol tanker crash. Exhaustive studies were carried out by the Department of Transport after the October 1977 crash to determine what caused the problems that arose and how the deficiencies in the drainage system could be overcome to prevent dangerous liquids that enter the drainage system from the street gutters, outside Mascot airport from traversing the airport environment itself. The report of that study is available to the Minister and parts of it have been made available to the Parliament in answer to questions on notice, but no action whatsoever has been taken, as far as I can ascertain. 
Recently, an amount of something like $82,000 or $83,000 was sought to carry out urgent modifications to the most critical areas of the drainage system. That request was refused within the Department on the basis that that kind of accident, which the Minister said was unique, could not happen again. It has happpened again, and acceptance of responsibility for that situation must lie at the feet of the Minister for Transport and his Government. 
As the Minister said, it is a public road and it could happen anywhere. That is how the Minister evaluated this problem, and I will read the answer he gave to the Parliament in May 1 978 in reply to question on notice No. 8 14. He was asked: 
What action has been taken to prevent a repetition of the events that occurred. 
The question did not ask about the accident but about the events, the destruction of the tanker, the movement of blazing fuel throughout the airport, underneath TAA's gate lounge No. 5 and up through the open drain, in an area where an aircraft had moved out two minutes before. This was the Minister's response: 
Accidents of this type can occur on any public road and prevention is impracticable. 
That is just not good enough. This Government can find money out of the air ad infinitum when it wants it for $40m programs for Boeing 707s, for world trips in luxury and safety for the Prime Minister. But when it comes to spending $82,000 or $83,000 on the safety of the public, who pay for the air services, for the infrastructure, money is not available because, on the Government's assessment and on the assessment of the Department that kind of accident could not happen again. It did happen and it still could happen again because that section of road outside Qantas, along Qantas Drive, is a heavily trafficked section used by vehicles carrying volatile liquids. Urgent attention has to be given to it. 
The Government has before it the responsibility of acting immediately to protect public safety and to ensure that funds are made available to carry out the necessary modifications to that drainage system. I emphasise that the drainage system within the airport is in contravention of internationally accepted standards of design for international airports. The Government knows this, but it is taking a punt. Some government members are punting men, but members of the public are not punting people. When they go through the airport they want to know that they can move through in safety and with the assurance that they are not likely to be victims of this Government's gambling with human lives and danger because it does not think an accident can occur. 
In conclusion, let me say that a select all-party parliamentary committee, as outlined in the motion, could thoroughly investigate the standards of safety at Mascot Airport, the efficiency with which taxpayers' money is being spent there, and identify the serious risks that could arise for the travelling public when essential and basic works are not funded by government. Throughout Australia, both among the community and in industry, there is widespread concern at the price, quality and availability of essential transport services. There is concern at the level of air fares, the  provision  and quality of rail and bus services, the standard of roads, the availability of stable, reasonably priced coastal and international shipping services to get our products to the international markets, and at the chaotic state of the road transport industry and the intrusion that that makes upon road safety for all other road users. 
I have detailed some of the issues involved and comments by industry leaders on action that should be taken to improve our transport services and thus our trading competitiveness and quality of life. An all-party select parliamentary committee should be established to conduct a responsible and far-reaching investigation into our transport systems, to identify its problems, and to recommend appropriate solutions. Its inquiries, findings and report would be in the national interest. I commend the motion to honourable members. 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House: 
Notes that since April 1976, the Government has rubber-stamped seven air fare increases totalling 40 per cent by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines, 
observes that assessment of the air fare increase applications was completed in secret by three Department of Transport officers in periods as short as eight days, 
deplores the Government's failure to provide for public scrutiny of, or participation in, application for air fare increase proceedings, 
recognises that the existing base domestic air fare formula fails to give adequate consideration to the twin components of 'flag fall' and 'distances travelled', and 
is of the opinion that: 
a public inquiry should be initiated forthwith into the base domestic air fare structure to ensure that air fares properly reflect the consideration of the costs inherent in longer flight stages and flag fall charges and to recommend means by which existing anomalies and inequities in current air fare schedules may be removed, and 
that all future applications for increases in domestic air fares should be the subject of public examination by the Prices Justification Tribunal to ensure that increases sought are fair and justified and that the interests of air travellers are protected. 
-The Committee is at the draft report stage of its inquiry into the Australian Industry Development Corporation. The report is an important one and because of the length of the Christmas recess, I understand the Committee has decided to seek the approval contained in the motion before the House. The inquiry has been a wide-ranging one, and other inquiries are going on into the financial structure of the Australian commercial community. The Opposition is in accord with the thrust of the motion before the Chair. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Opposition does not wish to delay the motion before the Chair. As the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  said, it is important, and we are happy to see it passed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause 3 of the Bill now before the chamber reads: 
Section S of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting after the definition of" commission " in sub-section ( 1 ) the following definition: " ' Commissioner of Police ' means the Commissioner of Police referred to in section 6 of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979, and includes an acting Commissioner of Police; ' '; 
by omitting from sub-section ( 1 ) the definitions of " Comptroller-General of Customs " and " officer of Customs "; 
by inserting after the definition of" Managing Director of the Commission "in sub-section ( I ) the following definition: " ' member of the Australian Federal Police ' includes a special member of the Australian Federal Police;"; and 
by omitting from sub-section (4) " or the Comptroller-General of Customs ". 
The discussion around this clause is making a farce of the Parliament at this late hour. It is very clear that that corrupt Government that sits opposite, that is asleep over there, is trying to ram this legislation through the chamber in the middle of the night, like the thieves in the night that Government members are, so that the 
Parliament and the media will not know what this discussion is about. 

 Government members interjecting- 

The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member will resume his seat. I will not allow the honourable member to continue until there is order in the chamber. 
What I was saying is that at this late hour in the morning, those who sit opposite, led by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  are deliberately creating a row in the Parliament in an attempt to do anything but discuss this legislation. The interesting thing is that no one from the Government side of the chamber is rising to speak on any matter pertaining to this legislation. They sit there like dodos. The Government gags its own members; it even prevents its own members from debating the issues at hand. Here we have what in effect is the beginning of 1984 in this country- legislation that pries into people's lives. It has led this Government into corruption; it has led this Government into admissions before a court, before hearings, that it has acted improperly and, worst of all, the Minister sitting here - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Oh, sit down, you oaf. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Shortland will resume his seat. 
The Minister sitting here does not know what the legislation is about. He has no idea what this Bill is about. He may as well be asleep. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member will resume his seat. The question is: 
That the question be now put. 
-I move: 
That clause 1 be recommitted. 
It is obvious that the Government members have not had a chance to debate this issue; they have not been here. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member is out of order. He can move that motion only at the report stage. 
Clause 5 (Inspection of telegrams). 
Motion (by  Mr Morris)  put: 
That the clause be postponed. 
-I second the motion.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you have been placed in an intolerable position as a result of this Government's reluctance and determination- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
Sit down, you oaf. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The Chair is not inclined to question the honourable member for Shortland 's knowledge of zoology but I am required to get him to withdraw that remark. The honourable member will withdraw. 
It was intended as flattery to the honourable member, but I withdraw. 
-I ask the Deputy Prime Minister: Is he continuing to support the provision of further Federal financial support to Woodsreef Mines Ltd? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
1 ) Are cancelled flight seats which are purchased on an advance purchase basis from (a) domestic and (b) international airlines resold to other passengers. 
If so, does this result in airlines collecting a double return on some aircraft seats. 
If the position is as stated, does this practice have Government endorsement. 
Is he able to say how many seats paid for on an advanced purchase basis were: 
not used by the purchaser and 
subsequently resold by: 
Ansett Airlines 
Trans Australia Airlines and 
Qantas Airways Limited 
In each of the years 1977, 1978 and 1979 to date. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) What consultations have been held with the air freight industry concerning recommendations on possible changes to the industry in the report on the review of Australia's civil aviation policy. 
When were the consultations held. 
3 ) With whom were they held. 
When will he announce the outcome of the consultations. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1 979: 
1 ) Why was the VIP Boeing 707 aircraft used to fly the Minister for Foreign Affairs to Lagos when commercial aircraft flights were available at a first class airfare of $205 as reported. 
) What was the cost by category of the use of the Boeing 707 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
Was the cost of fuel for the Boeing 707 $17,000 as reported in the Australian media. 
To which Department's expense items was the cost of the use of the Boeing 707 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the trip to Lagos charged and what sum was charged. 
What was the precise formula used to calculate the cost of the use of the Boeing 707 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) What was the purpose of the hire of a helicopter referred to in contract C2/79/37 on page 78 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 1 8 September 1979. 
2 ) What is the duration of the contract. 
3 ) Where was/is the helicopter operated. 
By what means are the tasks performed by this helicopter normally accomplished. 
What are the names, addresses and tender prices of any unsuccessful tenderers for this contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) What were the names, designations or sponsoring organisations of persons attending the transport administration course referred to in contract 5 / 1 /354 on page 79 of the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette of 1 8 September 1 979. 
) Are these courses held regularly; if so, how frequently; if not, for what reason was this course held. 
What is the nature of instruction given at this course, by whom was it given, and at what cost. 
What teaching aids/audio visual aids were employed. 
Were these aids provided by his Department; if not, by whom were they supplied, and at what cost. 
For what reasons was this course held in the Marco Polo Inn of North Melbourne, Victoria. 
Have previous courses of this nature been held at the Marco Polo Inn; if not, where were they held. 
8 ) Are further courses of this nature planned; if so, when. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That this House: 
1 ) Notes that on the Civil Aviation (Carriers Liability) Act 1976 the maximum compensation available in the event of personal injury or death in a domestic air accident is $45,000; 
recognises that this amount is totally inadequate when compared with the level of damages being awarded to victims of motor vehicle and industrial accidents; 
further notes that in June 1970 the then Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  stated that air accidents compensation limits should keep pace with increases in average weekly earnings; 
observes that in these terms the air accident compensation limit should be raised to at least $85,000; and 
is of the opinion that the Civil Aviation (Carriers Liability) Act 1976 should be amended to: 
raise the limits of air crash compensation to at least $85,000; and 
that the Cotton formula be applied forthwith as a basis for determining levels of air crash compensation. 
-At the outset, I register my strong protest at the indecent way in which this very important motion is being rushed through the House and the indecent manner in which the report of the Committee - 
I am not being sanctimonious. We are sent here to discuss matters - 
-Crawl back down into your burrow. 
Eskimoes live in the best kinds of burrows. If the honourable member is upset, I do not mind withdrawing for him. The Opposition supports the motion. However, my colleague, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  has some special personal views in relation to the location of runways that has been suggested in the recommendations of the report. He will deal with those himself. At this stage, the Opposition is completely opposed to any suggestion for a total abolition of the curfew, and, on existing technology for aircraft engine design, it is a matter that we will look at when the time arrives. The Opposition takes considerable pride from the fact that, contrary to some of the claims made by honourable members opposite, it initiated the land acquisition program and acquired the first land for the new airport site. In referring to the cost - 
-Don't you say anything. You are the man who said that more than $70m was an absolute waste. You are on record as saying that. Do not start interjecting. 
You said that more than $70m is an absolute waste.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I return to the more important subject. The overall cost of the project is estimated at $172m. In January 1979, the Queensland Director of the Department of Transport estimated the cost of the total project at $l50m at 1977 prices. The point that the Opposition wants to make is that this is a major item of expenditure. In two years, the estimate of costs has risen already by some 15 per cent- not one sod has yet been turnedfrom $ 1 50m to $ 1 72m. There will need to be absolute stringency and control over construction, design standards, and the quality of fitments that go into the whole project. Can I make this one point as strongly as I can on behalf of the people who will use the airport and will pay for the airport. Airports ought to be functional. They ought to be utilitarian. But they ought not be monumental. It is not the province of a Minister for Transport, or a government, to erect a Taj Mahal at an airport for which air travellers forever have to pay. 
That is a utilitarian, conservative type of airport terminal and was a credit to the Minister at that time. In the report of the Public Works Commission, the point is made that on the information provided to the Committee there will be a cost to each international air traveller of $1.30 directly attributable to the cost of this development. The cost to domestic passengers will be $2.10 each. These are large amounts considered in the context of the total air fare and as an addition to the cost recovery component of domestic air fares. 
In his statement to the Parliament, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said that special consideration is to be given to the cost recovery aspect of this project. On behalf of the people who use aircraft, I ask him to provide that information as soon as possible. If it is a scheme that can be used elsewhere, we ought to know about it. I have expressed my view in respect of the Opposition's attitude towards the curfew. It is dealt with in the report of the Committee. The valid clauses are referred to, particularly in clause 70 and 72, and the Committee's conclusion is in paragraph 73. 
On behalf of the Committee, I say that this is a detailed and very expensive project. The report was tabled yesterday. Obviously the Government has worked all night and has given detailed consideration and analysis to the content of the report, the priority of expenditure and the justification for that expenditure, and it has come up with a pre-printed document this afternoon. This makes a farce of the work of the standing committees of this Parliament. We know that the project is urgent. But the Government could have come back within a reasonable time- say within four years- after it had considered the work of the Committee. I ask honourable members to go through the statement of the Minister when they have the time to do so. I say this on a bipartisan basis: Go through the statement of the Minister and look closely at the response to each of the recommendations of the Committee. The responses are an insult. The Government has rejected the evidence given to the Committee by the Department of Transport. Its own advice to the Minister for Transport, who is sitting at the table, is rejected. A little later on - 
-I am pointing to the table. Later on in the report the evidence given by the airlines is rejected by the Government. The conclusion drawn by the Committee in the paragraph on the extension of existing runways is rejected by the Government. I am not saying that these are the wrong conclusions. What I am saying is that better consideration should have been given to the matter and a much better argued case should have been presented. The Parliament is being treated as being totally irrelevant. I conclude with those remarks because I want to allow my colleagues time to speak on the matter. The Opposition supports the motion but it rejects the proposals to abolish the curfew at Brisbane airport. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) What was the purpose of the hire of F27 aircraft referred to in contract C2/79/45 on page 78 of the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 18 September 1979. 
How many F27 aircraft were hired and for what length of time. 
) Where were the aircraft operated. 
By what means are the tasks performed by the aircraft mentioned in this contract normally performed. 
Were there any tenderers for this contract other than East-West Airlines Ltd; if so, what were the names, addresses and tender prices of the unsuccessful tenderers. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1 979: 
1 ) By what means and on what dates has he formally asked TAA and Ansett to end parallel scheduling on any routes since 1975. 
) Which routes are involved. 
What has been the detailed formal response from TAA and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. 
Why has the incidence of parallel scheduling increased since 1975 as reported by the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
What was the incidence of parallel scheduling of major domestic airline services in Australia expressed as a proportion of total scheduled timetable departures in (a) 1974-75, (b) 1975-76, (c) 1976-77, (d) 1977-78 and (e) 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1 979: 
) What are the items being purchased under contract Cl/78/29 referred to on page 77 of the  Commonwealth of A ustralia Gazette  ( g 3 7 ) of 1 8 September 1979. 
At what airports are the items being purchased to be located and for what purpose are they to be used. 
What is the expected service life of the items being purchased. 
Who were the unsuccessful tenderers for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
1 ) How many applications for fare increases have been made by East-West Airlines since December 1975. 
) On what date was each application made. 
On what date did the Government grant approval or otherwise to each of the applications. 
What was the extent of the fare rise approved by him on each occasion. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
1 ) Has East- West Airlines lodged an application to introduce medium-sized jet aircraft on its routes; if so, when was the application lodged and for which aircraft has approval been sought. 
Has the Government reached a decision on the application; if not, when will a decision be made. 
asked the Minister for Transport upon notice, on 13 November 1979: ( 1 )What has been the expenditure on capital purchases of equipment associated with the operation of seat reservation systems by (a) Ansett Airlines (b) Trans Australia Airlines and (c) East West Airlines during (i) 1977-78 and (ii) 1978-79. 
2 ) What was the expenditure on ( a ) other costs including all labour costs associated with operation of those airlines' seat reservation systems and (b) all matters associated with installation and operation of the seat reservation systems during(i) 1977-78 and (ii) 1978-79 
3 ) What proportion of ( a ) airline operating costs ( b ) total airline costs and (c) airline passenger revenue did each expenditure represent during (i) 1977-78 and (ii) 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
1 ) Has East- West Airlines sought approval to import F28 jet aircraft and Bandierante turbo prop aircraft; if so, (a) how many of each type of aircraft has the company sought to import and what are the proposed dates for importation, (b) on what routes is each type of aircraft proposed to be used, (c) when were the applications for import approval lodged and (d) have any applications been approved 
If the applications have not been approved when does he expect to make a decision. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
What was the passenger load factor achieved by (a) Trans Australia Airlines, ( b) East West Airlines and (c) Ansett Airlines for (i) first class seats and (ii) economy seats in each year from 1974-75 to 1978-79 and the period 1 July 1979 to date. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) In what legal actions is  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C, presently acting for the Commonwealth? 
In what legal actions has  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C, represented the Commonwealth during (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77 and (c) the period 1 July 1978 to date and what sums have been paid to  Mr Rofe  in each of those periods in respect of each action? 
What sums are still to be paid to  Mr Rofe  in respect of (a) completed and (b) incomplete actions? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) On what date and at what locations have (a) general and (b) non-official post offices in New South Wales ceased to provide a Saturday morning service from 1 July 1978 to date. 
In how many cases was closure initiated by the postmaster. 
If closure was not initiated by the relevant postmaster, who initiated action for closure. 
What was the number of work units earned at each non-official post office at the time of closure. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) What are the names and positions of Government appointees to Australian statutory authorities and corporations who will reach the age of 65 years in their current term of service. 
On what date will each reach the age of 65 years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Did he say in answer to question No. 3493  (Hansard,  1 May 1979, page 1715) that a similar standard of procedure is followed by (a) Liberal Party and (b) National Country Party Ministers when appointees to statutory and other bodies administered by them become the subject of criminal charges. 
If so, will he explain specifically why the services of  Mr Harry  Maurice Miller were terminated by the Minister for Administrative Services from the Bi-Centenary Committee immediately following charges being laid against  Mr Miller  by the NSW Corporate Affairs Commission, yet no action was taken by the National Country Party Ministers to terminate  Mr Miller's  services from the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation and the board of Qantas Airways Ltd. 
Does he still stand by his answer to question No. 3493. 
What are the detailed reasons for the difference in the actions taken by the Minister for Administrative Services, the Minister for Transport and the former Minister for Primary Industry. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the minimum import shipment size to which (a) charter freight airlines and (b) scheduled airlines bringing imports into Australia are restricted. 
) What is the size of the average shipment carried by ( a) charter freight airlines and (b) scheduled airlines. 
Is there a difference in the minimum shipment size by charter freight airlines and scheduled airlines; if so what is the reason. 
Which organisations operated air freight services to and from Austrafia in each of the last S years. 
What quantities of goods by category were (a) imported and (b) exported by air freight in each year since 1973-74. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1 979: 
1 ) Is he able to say what studies have been made in recent years into the lack of uniformity in road laws in Australia and what those studies have found. 
If so, what are the specific areas of road laws State by State, in which there is a lack of uniformity. 
What have been the results of the lack of uniformity in road laws in Australia in respect of (a) road safety, (b) transport efficiency and (c) additional costs of manufacture of road vehicles. 
What action has he taken to overcome the lack of uniformity of road laws in Australia since 197S and what have been the results. 
Do constitutional provisions impede the introduction of uniform load laws ii Australia; if so, in what way. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) What are the principal differences State by State in regulations governing the registration and operation of road freight vehicles. 
What has been the effect of the differing regulations in respect of (a) costs of manufacture of road freight vehicles, (b) operation and interstate road freight vehicles, (c) transport efficiency and freight rates and (d) road safety. 
3 ) Which organisation is responsible for the development of uniform regulations for the design, manufacture and use of road freight vehicles in Australia and what progress has it made since 1 975. 
When will uniform regulations for the design, manufacture and use of road freight vehicles be achieved in Australia and how. 
Do constitutional provisions impede the introduction of uniform regulations in Australia; if so, how. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement by  Mr H.  J. O 'Regan, Managing Director of Associated Container Transportation (Aust) Ltd that freight rates negotiated with Shipping Liner Conferences compare more than favourably with domestic transportation costs in terms of stability and predictability. 
Is he able to provide evidence which might confirm or refute this statement by  Mr O  'Regan. 
Is this stability and predictability referred to by  Mr O  'Regan the major factor in the Government's policy of permitting Liner Conferences in shipping lines to Australia; if not, what weight is attached to it by the Government in its determination of policy towards liner conferences. 
For what reason is negotiated rate fixing permitted in overseas trades but not in respect of domestic transport services. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the specific nature of the Boeing 707 ground support equipment provided for in contracts 23-5180/79/2 and 23-1680/79/5 referred to in the  Commonwealth of A ustralia Gazette  ( G32 ) of 1 4 August 1979. 
) For what purposes will the equipment be used. 
What is the expected service life of the equipment purchased. 
Who were the unsuccessful tenderers for the contract. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
Did officials from his Department investigate the causes of the crash of an Australian-built Nomad aircraft in Irian Jaya on 23 July 1979; if so, what were the findings. 
Has his Department asked for a report on the crash from the Indonesian Government; if so, what was the specific nature of the report. 
How many Nomads has Australia given to Indonesia as part of its aid program. 
Have any other Nomads provided or sold to Indonesia been involved in accidents or crashes; if so, what was the specific nature of each accident or crash. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 25 October 1 979: 
1 ) What first aid and medical instruction and training is undertaken by air hostesses and stewards employed by Ansett Airlines, TAA, Qantas and comparable overseas airlines. 
What qualifications or certificates of competency are attained by hostesses and stewards employed by these airlines on completion of their training. 
Is the possession of the qualifications or certificates a prerequisite for service aboard each company's aircraft. 
What specific procedures are followed by the airlines in the event of (a) a general medical emergency occurring, (b) a suspected heart attack and (c) imminent birth of a child. 
To what extent are cabin staff dependent upon fare paying passengers in the event of a medical emergency in flight. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 November 1979: 
1 ) What sums were paid into Commonwealth revenue by (a) Qantas Airways Ltd, (b) Trans Australia Airlines, (c) Ansett Airlines, and (d) East West Airlines for use of airport facilities at (i) Sydney, (ii) Melbourne, and (iii) all other Australian airports during each year from 1970-71 to 1978-79. 
What proportion of (a) airline operating costs, (b) total airline costs, and (c) passenger revenue did this expenditure by each airline represent in each of the same years. 
What Commonwealth expense was incurred per paying passenger in relation to each airline for use of airport facilities at (a) Sydney, (b) Melbourne, and (c) all other Australian airports during each year from 1970-71 to 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
1 ) Has Ansett Airlines or its subsidiaries sought approval to import F28 aircraft; if so (a) how many aircraft has each company sought to import, (b) on what routes are the aircraft proposed to be operated, (c) when was the import approval application lodged and (d) when is it proposed to import each of the aircraft. 
Has he granted approval to import the aircraft; if not, when does he expect to make a decision on the application. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 3 November 1 979: 
1  ) What sum was paid in Australia by (a) Qantas Airways Ltd. (b) Trans Australia Airlines, (c) East West Airlines and (d) Ansett Airlines for air navigation charges during each year from  1  974-75 to  1  978-79 and the period  1  July 1979 to date. 
What proportion of (a) operating costs, (b) total costs and (c) passenger and freight revenue attributable to Australian operations did this expenditure represent for each airline in each of the years and the period referred to in part (  1 ). 
What was the amount of this expenditure on a per passenger embarked in Australia basis in each year and period referred to in part (  1  ) for each airline. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 November 1 979: 
1 ) What were the fuel costs of (a) Qantas Airways Ltd., (b) Ansett Airlines, (c) Trans Australia Airlines and (d) East West Airlines during each year from 1970-71 to 1978-79 and the period 1 July 1979 to date. 
What percentage of (a) operating costs, (b) total costs and (c) passenger and freight revenue did this expenditure represent for each airline in each of the years and period referred to in Part ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
What is the nature of the assistance provided to Woodsreef Mines by the Commonwealth Government. 
) Did the Industries Assistance Commission recommend assistance to Woodsreef Mines; if not, what reasons did the Commission give for not recommending assistance. 
Did he support the Commission's recommendations. 
Did he later reverse his decision on Woodsreef Mines; if so, what were the specific reasons for the change. 
In which electoral divisions are the major operations of Woodsreef Mines located. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
At what locations and for what purposes does Woodsreef Mines carry on activities in Australia. 
) What are the names and addresses of the (a) directors, (b) principal shareholders and (c) bankers of Woodsreef Mines. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
On what dates, at what specific locations and for what purposes has he met with (a) principals or employees of Woodsreef Mines and ( b) any other persons associated with or representing Woodsreef Mines, since 1 January 1978. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the then Opposition successfully moved extensive amendments to the Interstate Commission Bill 1975. 
2 ) What was the purpose of those amendments. 
Did he vote to accept those amendments in the House of Representatives. 
Did the body provided for by the Interstate Commission Act 1975 fail to conform to his perception of a Commission which would have power to regulate transport in Australia within the limitations of the Constitution; if so, why has he not amended the Act to provide a body compatible with that which he believed to be necessary in 1975; if not, why has he not proclaimed the Interstate Commission Act 1975 and established the Interstate Commission. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 5 November 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to comments concerning poor standards of general aviation maintenance in Airworthiness Advisory Circular No. 113, November 1 979. 
Who is responsible for issuing maintenance releases following inspection of general aviation aircraft. 
) Has any action been taken against any of those responsible for maintenance releases in cases where inspections of aircraft have been found to be inadequate; if so, what was the nature of the action. 
What specific action will his Department take to ensure a higher standard of general aviation maintenance. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 November 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to comments in Airworthiness Advisory Circular No. 1 1 3, November 1 979, concerning major defects involving the effects of heat on the wing spars of some light twin aircraft; if so, which types of aircraft are affected by the defect 
How many cases of the defect have been detected by his Department 
What specific action has been taken by his Department to prevent further occurrences of the defect. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1 979: 
1 ) On what occasions, at what locations and for what purposes has he met with representatives or associates of the Commercial Bank of Australia in relation to (a) matters pertaining to Woodsreef Mines, and (b) any other matters since 1 January 1978. 
) What are the names, designations and addresses of the representatives or associates referred to in part ( 1 ). 
